ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m0.u1	Good morning, dear colleagues, please take your seats and prepare for your registration. Please activate the "Council" system and register Ukrainian national deputies. There were 301 national deputies registered in the hall. The Supreme Council is starting its work. Dear citizens of Ukraine, distinguished national MPs, you know very well that Sunday. A coordinated provocation against our country, organized by the Russian Federation. At one time, administrative facilities in Kharkiv, Donetsk, and Luhansk areas were taken over. I inform you that last night the house where the Ukrainian Security Service was located was completely free of criminals. This morning, the district administration of Kharkiv was completely liberated from the separatists. In addition, both weapons and hand grenades were used when the administration was dismissed from the police. Several force - force workers were seriously injured. During the release of the district administration, 70 criminals were detained. I hope that the Ukrainian Security Service in Lugansk and the district government in Donetsk will also be released in the near future. Attempts by separatists to start provocations in the Dnipropetrovsk and Mikolayev areas are localized. Thank you very much to all those working in the force structure who are doing their duties in a dignified and professional manner. Ladies and gentlemen, before the performances of members of the MPs and factions begin, I want to make an announcement. According to part three of article 60 of the Supreme Council Rules, he is reporting his withdrawal from the Party of the Regions of Yuri Miroshnichenko, a national deputy. It also reports its withdrawal from the faction of the Party of the Regions in accordance with article 60 of the Rules of the Supreme Council. And National Deputy Gruszewski Vitaliy Anatoliyovich reports on his membership in the Party of the Regions. Dear colleagues, I ask you to sign up for the speeches by the MP factions and groups. Please. From the "North European Ukraine" faction, Alexander Sergiyovich Dony spoke.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m0.u2	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I came from Kharkiv. Because as soon as I heard about the pro-Russian Separatist Sabbath, I went there right away. And I'd like to bow low to those Ukrainian patriots who in this difficult situation went to the square of Liberty, they were unarmed, I saw eyes maybe scared, but sincere in their struggle for Ukraine. They were beaten, and they went back to the square of Liberty. They were not protected by the Kharkiv police, and they returned to the square of Liberty. When I spoke to them yesterday, I then noticed the rumble, and the rumble was in the blood. I understand that the MPs who are here are not interested, so they're talking to each other. Of course, the blood of ordinary Harkians is for them. So I'm saying that the Harkowe militia was involved in sabotage and inaction. I say because I was talking to the Harkians yesterday, who were not protected by the Kharkiv militia. It is good that we arrived later from Poltava and from other cities, other special forces that helped liberate the district government. But I say that unfortunately, our law enforcement officers in Kiev, knowing in advance, having information about the Sabbath being prepared, did not take proper action. It's also not about these MPs who aren't listening right now, they're talking to each other. The government in Ukraine, in particular the leadership of law enforcement structures, is sabotaging and thus helping pro-Russian extremists who are sent from abroad specifically to destabilize the situation. Who can answer what the Ukrainian Security Service and its leadership did if the separatists were voluntarily handed over to Lugansk? Don't you want to say it voluntarily? How else can 300 assault rifles be given to the attackers? What has the Ukrainian Security Service done to protect state borders and constitutional systems? How could she give her weapons to the separatists? I don't understand. Does he understand the management of the CBS? Does he understand the management of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, which had to be transferred in advance to Harkov, Luhansk and Donetsk? Is it only after that that that a special unit can be overturned? Excuse me, what do we need guidance for? I ask this question specifically because I was asked by the Harkowians. To change the leadership, at least in Kharkiv region, and the BSS, and the militia, and if they don't want to do it to the BSS and the U.S. militia, then so does they, because it's sabotage and inaction. Next. Statements by ministers of fuel and energy, such as Yuri Prodan. What did he say in this situation a few days ago that Ukraine would be borrowing from the Russian Federation? What does that mean, a $2 billion government is borrowing from countries that are taking over the territory? So maybe this is the price you're selling Harkishka, Luhansk and Donetskina for? How can this be done? Where's the minister's apology? Where an apology from the Prime Minister or an explanation is strange.?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m0.u3	Thank you. It's a strike. Vitaly Klitschko, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m0.u4	Dear colleagues, Ukraine today is dealing with a real war. And who is our enemy? Our enemy is banditry and rematchism. But they're in Ukraine and those who are willing to play this out, who, in their political business-clan interests, are willing to disrespect their country's future so much. People in the East and South need to know, blame for the riot in the streets, for the insolence of gastrolers on those who play separatism, who are trying to split the country apart from the elections. And people, foreign divers, paid by bandits, law enforcement. Humans also demand the responsibility of managers who are incapable of working effectively and protecting their citizens. But it is not important to stop those actors, local authorities behind the atrocities, to organize and coordinate actions along with Russian security forces. I would like to point out that so far, the authorities in Donbassa have not condemned the actions of separatists. The question is clear: Will their position on separatists appeal to citizens in Donbas not to be provoked by bandits or should they explain their actions to law enforcement authorities? The laws that we will adopt today should strengthen the responsibility for separatism, and all of us must consider it together. Next, we need to adopt laws today that will allow for an independent election of the city at the same time as the May 25 presidential election. This issue needs to be resolved without delay. The law has to be voted on. Those who do not do so will be responsible for the loss of social resources. Now hundreds of people have come under the walls of the Supreme Council. People demand that we immediately put and vote for the utilizational congregation, and we need to put it in the order of the day immediately. Another urgent issue is the creation of a high - level group that will bring together all interested ministries and authorities to deal with Crimea - related issues. Relocation of troops, deployment of them, removal of refugees, assistance with their facilities, and assistance to the remaining citizens of the Crimea. The question is numerous. People need to understand what address, which mailbox, which phone, who they can contact to get help from the state. And finally, we need to put in order of the day and adopt the Act on Occupied Territories, which will clearly mark the status of Crimea and ensure the protection of our citizens during the occupation and after the return of Crimea to Ukraine, which will certainly be. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m0.u5	Thank you. Please, from Economic Development, National MP Zurawski.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m0.u6	Please pass the word to Anatoly Kirilovich Kinah.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m0.u7	Please, Anatoly Kirilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m0.u8	Dear National Deputies! Ukraine, as an independent state, is undergoing another phase of the exams, including by protecting its statehood, territorial integrity. It is most important to overcome systemic crises by protecting national interests, all understandable levels and levels of responsibility, starting with, of course, the Supreme Council, and the most important to protect Ukraine's interests, on the basis of further consolidation of the efforts of society and the state. Everyone needs to understand, regardless of current personal or political competition, that Ukraine is under a fierce external, economic, political, economic. Information pressure. And those structures, those politicians that are panicking, political hysteria, panic, they are essentially working against Ukraine's national interests, because the goal, including external scenarios, is to create a situation of exacerbation of socio-political and socio-economic, legal instability in Ukraine, because of this collapse of the election process of the President of Ukraine, which is crucial for us to form in a further effective system of government. This is aimed at protecting Ukraine’s national interests by building on the Fifth Column as much as possible. The "Economic Development" MP again refers to his colleagues in parliament, to all the social and political forces: toss aside personal political ambitions, concentrate your intelligence, work responsibility in directions that correspond to the national strategic interests of the Ukrainian State, the Ukrainian people. Secondly, of course, the effectiveness of power depends very much on human resources policy. We need to think about how much serious damage is being done in some cases by the so-called human rights policy, which is based on political quota, to try to create conditions for finding an enemy, a witch hunt. We strongly urge Parliament to pay attention to this. We have important influences, starting with Ukraine's anti-corruption legislation, a register of people who have no right to hold positions of office in the power system. It's a question of attestation, a question of competitive selection for positions in government structures, so that personnel policies are geared not to political colours, but to the ability of a person who is professional, trained, with governmental positions of expertise who are able to solve problems that are critical to the Ukrainian state and our development. We clearly have a lot of observations, and this is a big problem for us that the order of the Supreme Council's day does not reflect the priorities that need to be decided in both socio-economic and other ways of the state's life. A large number of laws that directly affect business activity, protection, support for the internal market, creating industrial conditions, and business are not being considered. We insist that the government strengthen its work with Parliament and we form a day-to-day order that corresponds to the outcome of the socio-economic crisis. Only together, by uniting our responsibility toward the Ukrainian people can we be sure that these questions can be addressed and formed irreversibly.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m0.u9	Thank you. Please, Fatherland faction, Sergey Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m0.u10	Dear Lord Chairman, dear colleagues! I wanted you to put to the vote at the beginning of our session the continuation of the work of the Supreme Council until the conclusion of all the issues that are now included in the agenda. It's very important. Secondly, in view of the situation in the east of Ukraine and our decision that we have adopted is Decree 740-7 on the non-application of force to peaceful protests, we have a new situation in which unfortunately the Russian Federation, through its services, initiates, not peaceful protests, but provocations. I have a request to you, to the presiding officer, to prepare for an urgent change to the appropriate decision, because what happened in Donetsk yesterday, when five armed automatics in machine guns tried to take the center of television, and our unit, the special unit of the militia, including the Zaporez area, could not use adequate force against armed men. This is a nuisance and in the event that there are armed forces there must be an adequate response to special militia units that should stop it immediately. To the honor of the Special Unit of the Police, including Zaporozhye, who stopped armed with automatic rifles and grenade launchers and were able to repel a telecentre attack in Donetsk. Request to put two questions in order of the day. This is question No.4573-1, this is an alternative bill on the Anti-Corruption Bureau, and No.4632, this is about the High Council of Justice, because today we're going to consider an anti-corruption package, and one of the first questions is restoring trust in judges. Without amending the Act on the Higher Council of Justice, we cannot actually complete the Higher Council of Justice in accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine. In addition, the question of the utilization congregation is very urgent. You know, we've accelerated the consideration of this issue and I would like the Ministry of Finance to give immediate justification for the budget and how we're compensating these losses in the budget so that the issue is put to the vote in the agenda. One question is, this is a question that concerns the National Television and Radio Council, this is Bill No.2829, which will allow the National Television and Radio Council to form, not within a month, as it is in the law today, but within 10 days. This will enable us to quickly organize an organ that actually regulates the issue of radio and television today. In addition, it is important for us to put in order today the daily bill 3138, which has been duly considered, is the Law on the Simplification of Accounting Reporting. This is a bill that directly corresponds to the anti-corruption package and allows you to actually avoid those corruption schemes that exist in the corporate tax system in order to simplify the corporate accounting process. So we have a difficult agenda for today. I have a request, Alexander Valentine's Day, to continue the work until all matters have been resolved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m0.u11	Thank you. Please, Party of Regions, national deputy of Lukyanov.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m0.u12	Respectable citizens of Ukraine, respected colleagues, national deputies! Our country is now on the verge of civil war. And I would like the authorities to accept that and respond adequately. We see that when politicians come to power, they begin to suffer from a very strange disease. They immediately become blind, deaf, and, unfortunately, stupid. I mean, it's not acceptable for people to go out with their demands and use their weapons. I think in this situation we should, we demand that we create a negotiating group of representatives of Parliament from every faction, a parliamentary MP. That group should be led by the government. And right now we've made this decision and we've sent a group of negotiators on the plane to Lugansk, Donetsk and Kharkiv to ensure a peaceful solution to this situation. I want to say that tonight, representatives of the local elites, representatives of the MPs, held constant negotiations with the citizens who went against that policy of power that is now being implemented against our citizens. They find it unacceptable to increase prices; they find it unacceptable to destroy businesses. We see that today most businesses work for one or two days, and people lose their sources of existence. We see prices rising rapidly. We can see how the bracelet has been underestimated. Was that why people stood and went out on the street? I want to tell you: no, no, no. People went out to fight corruption, to get a government that hears the community, hears the population, and makes decisions that benefit the citizens. Do people support the decisions that are being made now? We see that now the political forces that have created the majority support corruption, have started to develop this corruption in even greater ways, and have become actively involved in it. We see as an example that the DAI chief in the Lviv region can no longer be released, as he could not release the past power, we see, almost two months now cannot be released. Is that what people required of us? People demanded that the government be cleansed of corruption, that the authorities return to the people and hear the people. It wasn't done. On the contrary, we see that the authorities became blind, deaf, and, instead of talking, started throwing weapons. I think we need to move away from double standards. We see that if people go out in their position, this position needs to be heard. If this is not done, this authority will also be changed as the previous authority has been changed. Therefore, the summary And I demand to create.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m0.u13	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m0.u14	We demand that we set up a group of negotiators to be entered by government leaders, representatives of the MP factions, immediately send this faction to a region where there is tension. And by negotiation, by peaceful means, to resolve this issue and to preserve Ukraine. If I don't, I think there's going to be a great deal of trouble in our country. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m0.u15	Dear colleagues, I would ask you not to disinform the public, because the authorities, the power structures have never used weapons against peaceful guardians and demonstrators, but against separatists, against terrorists who have taken over automatic weapons that seize the premises, the authorities will act as required by the Constitution and the law as with terrorists and criminals. Please, Oleg Tuggnibok, Freedom.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m0.u16	Glory to Ukraine! Oleg Tuggnibok, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Of course, when the people go out on the street and have certain requirements, they need to speak to the people, and the authorities need to listen to the people. But when Russian Federation GRU officers come in, organized groups of divers, separatists, and try to create a Separatist Sabbath, trying to collide people in the middle of Ukraine, they need to be spoken to in a completely different way. On the contrary, we believe that today the main task of the Ukrainian Parliament this week is to oppose the anti-State, separatist rebellion in the eastern regions of Ukraine, which is organized by the Kremlin today. And we all need to finally understand that this is a new stage of road rage in relation to Ukraine. And you don't have to tap, and you don't have to shake. And we need to stop this so - called pseudo-tolerance and indulgence in all the anti - state politics that the Kremlin is trying to pursue and impose in Ukraine today, particularly in eastern Ukraine. And on the contrary, I think the Freedoms faction thinks that too soft of power today is dealing with those separatists who are allowing them to enter the premises of district administrations, into the premises of power structures, to take possession of weapons. And I want to tell you that it's very hard to punish all the bad guys who are building a situation in us in the middle of Ukraine. And that's why we're about to return to the force from the East of Ukraine, and we're asking them to come in here and report to us: both the IMF, and the Prosecutor's Office, and the Ukrainian Security Service, and the Border Service, how they're doing to preserve the territorial integrity of the Ukrainian state. The cordon must be closed at last, and the visa regime with Russia must finally be introduced so that no villain, a separatist, would enter the territory of our state. We need to release all those militia leaders in the eastern parts of Ukraine who were unable to manage this situation, who did not give orders to move out of this situation and act in accordance with the law. We need to bring immediate responsibility to all those leaders of local self - government who have failed to deal with the situation. It should be made clear that many Ukrainian national deputies build there and conduct separatist Sabbaths in eastern Ukraine. Tell me, the Party of Regions, what is your Ephraim doing there? What's Ahmed doing there? What are the negotiations? What are they doing? It is urgent to stop that Sabbath in the east of Ukraine. And it doesn't matter, a national MP, an oligarch, or a local government representative or a law enforcement representative should be called to account. What is more, everyone now understands why this has happened and why it is happening. To this day, the Law on Illustration has not been approved in Ukraine. If there was a law on illustration, it would be clearly stated which people cannot embrace positions, then we would be able to properly understand that human resources policy in the state would be properly decided. Not as it is now that the old rudiments, the old representatives continue to serve Moscow today, but Moscow's agency remains in power. And finally, and I now demand that an international investigation take place in relation to the murder of our officer, Major Cretsev Stanislav of Crimea by Russian occupying Zatsyev's international investigation of this case, because we cannot allow Ukrainian soldiers to die now in peacetime. And that's why we didn't mention it until now here in the parliament of this crime of Russian invaders against the Ukrainian officer. I now demand a moment of silence to honor our memory.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m0.u17	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m0.u18	Our Ukrainian officer, who died for the independence of the Ukrainian State. A moment of instruction in his memory and in the memory of the hundreds of dead. Thank you! Heroes don't die! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m0.u19	Thank you. From the Communist Party, National Deputy Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m0.u20	Respectable colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! I would like to express our party's position on developments in eastern Ukraine that are becoming very serious, threatening to the integrity of our country. The escalation of tension will only exacerbate these contradictions, and it is necessary to move from hysteria to soundness in assessing the events that are taking place in Ukraine in the east. And most importantly, to answer the question, what did the Ukrainian authorities do to avoid these events in the East? And let us begin with what we will examine, and with what requirements, the Ukrainian people living in Donetsk, Lugansk and other areas have come out, and what rights they have defended: they have demanded long ago, since the first years of independence of Ukraine, that a state position be determined on the status of the Russian language, that local referendums be held in order to protect their rights and interests in terms of how they assess culture, history, events. And, of course, this is today's agenda, the federalization of the country. What does Ukrainian power do? He can't hear or ignore. Moreover, it begins instead of words that give a conceptual correct interpretation of the position of Ukrainian citizens in Donbassa, today accusing them of crimes, accusing them of separatism. I want us to pay attention today and again to the fact that, speaking of some scenarios, you know, I want to go down here and apologize to you. I've been saying all along that we nationalists have pro-American and pro-Western policies to pursue and defend their interests. But I was wrong because, judging from who we started to take over administrative buildings and when did you forget, gentlemen nationalists? Who seized the BAF, the police who seized the arsenals, who seized the weapons, and so far thousands of guns are in the hands of those who have already formed the gangs and are running around Ukraine. Didn't you set the example and the scenario? As it turns out, you did not perform an American, but a Russian Federation for the Destruction of Ukraine's Independence scenario, a break-up of Ukraine, a robbery of Ukraine. (Applause) You've shown all these examples. Citizens use it objectively because you've always talked about threats to you by force and today you've abandoned armed people against those who wanted to assert their rights peacefully. You're doing everything today to intimidate people -- you're arresting people, you're running and you're unleashing an anti-intelligence fight. I think so. (Noise in the hall)
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m0.u21	Dear colleagues, I ask you to calm down. I ask you to calm down, dear colleagues. (Noise in the hall) Dear colleagues, I ask you to calm down. It's 10 minutes' notice.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m0.u22	While performing, it is very correct and objective to shape our thoughts and positions. I address all the deputies, all of them. (Noise in the hall) Please calm down and take your seats. Calm down, dear fellows. Dear colleagues, I beg you, let's not ruin today's workday. Very important questions, colleagues. Let's fight with emotion. Please, dear fellows. And we've taken ten minutes, five more minutes off for people to calm down. Dear colleagues, we have a five-minute break. We've arranged for people to calm down. Please, colleagues, let's calm down, let's control our emotions. Please. (Noise in the hall) Colleagues! Colleagues! I want to say again, we have serious questions and I'm asking that we don't tear down the hall right now. Colleagues, we have questions that need to be voted on. Colleagues, please calm down, calm down. Let's get our emotions into our fists and continue our work. Please, dear friends, I ask you important questions. Important questions for both the majority and the opposition today are very important questions. Ladies and gentlemen, may we continue our work? We can. Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, one of the first issues we should consider at today's plenary session is the draft Act amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine (to increase the responsibility for crimes against the foundations of Ukraine's national security). I ask you, my fellow Members, that, considering that we have a huge amount of today's agenda, taking into account the need to make these decisions, we vote in favour of the short-term procedure for making this decision. Is there no objection? And those who speak out so that we don't limit their ability to speak and speak. I ask you to support the proposal and vote in favour of the reduced procedure. Please be supportive. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:43:48]] For-170. 170 votes. Decision taken. Please come to the rostrum of the Supreme Council of Oleg Valeriyovich Láška.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m0.u23	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. I also want to report now on the bill of which I am the author: on increasing responsibility for committing crimes against the foundations of Ukraine's national security. But first of all, I want to inform Ukrainian society and the Ukrainian Parliament about the situation in Lugansk. Because I came back from Lugansk two hours ago, I was in the epicenter of events, and I can absolutely tell the Ukrainian society that's happening in Lugansk. Now the Ukrainian Security Service in the Luhansk region continues to be fascinated. In the premises of this office, between 150 and 200 people. The vast majority of them are former military personnel, Afghans. According to the data we have, between 150 and 200 people, about 40 people are military, military, Russian intelligence officers of the Ministry of Defense of the Russian Federation. Next. 22 hostages are now in the Security Service Department, which is held hostage during the second period. These are security personnel and civilians. This is me saying that a member of the Party of Regions, from the Communists, was told that there were peaceful citizens who were being fought by the authorities. These "peaceful citizens" who are now in the Security Service Department, I emphasize, respected Ukrainian citizens, thousands of firearms, 800 machine guns, 28 sniper rifles, 3 large-caliber machine guns, two hundred grenades of different caliber, 18 grenade launchers. I said sniper rifles. There's one detail. When the armed security agency was seized, it was replaced. She was exchanged and removed from there. I want to ask. Do many people have the ability to exchange weapons? I think it's only the Special Forces. That is to say, it is unnecessary evidence that there are now terrorists in the Security Service, not peaceful citizens, but terrorists, who are carrying out terrorist tasks aimed at destabilizing the situation in the eastern part of the country to divert part of Ukrainian territory from Ukraine. I ask Ukrainian citizens to pay attention to the synchronism of the acts of separatist terrorists in Lugansk, Donetsk and Kharkiv. As Alexander Turchinov has already pointed out, the simultaneous capture of district administrations, the simultaneous capture of security forces, the attempted capture of television centers, the simultaneous declaration of the creation of so - called independent republics of Donetsk, Kharkiv. We tried to do the same thing in Lugansk, we didn't. Proclamation to the Russian Federation of the entry of these so - called Donetsk, Lugansk, Kharkiv republics into the Russian Federation. I think only a blind person won't see the coordination of these actions from one center, and this center not in Ukraine, this center outside Ukraine's goal of this center is quite obvious. It's a splinter of Ukraine. This is the work of the Russian Special Forces. But when in the case of Crimea they went openly, aggression was armed. Now they're working through diversional labor. I want to tell Ukrainian citizens that Separatist actions aimed at the separation of Ukraine, I am in charge of the Lugansk region, I am in charge of MPs from the Party of Regions, I am in charge of Lugansk, I am in charge of Ephraim, I am in charge of Tihonov, I am in charge of Medjanik, I am in charge of Gorokhov and others. That's why I'm saying it. First of all, none of these deputies made public their position of non-acceptance of arms capture and separatist terrorist actions. They're like water in their mouths. There's Tikhov in the Supreme Council. Come on out here and tell me you're calling people to lay down their weapons. That you are calling for a peaceful dialogue, to find out the problems that exist in the country. Ephraim fled the hall. Come here, Ephraim, to the rostrum. And if you really are for a peaceful solution to the country’s problems, call on people to lay down their weapons so that they do not shed blood. So that people will be safe and sound. They don't do that. They thus confirm that they are involved in these terrorist acts. Next. Now in the hall, your honor's colleagues, the course of the Kings. Look at him standing there. He showed up. For two months he did all he could to destroy the country. Today, the Moscow master gave him a command to come to the hall. I say to the King, he has no moral right to be called the National Deputy of Ukraine. You have no right to be in the premises of the Ukrainian Parliament. Go to the FSB, where you get your salary. You're gonna put dirt on Ukraine on the air. You're calling for the slaughter of Ukraine, for the destruction of Ukraine. You need to put together a mandate as a deputy. You have no right to be in the Chamber of the Ukrainian Parliament. You support separatists, criminals. You support the split of Ukraine. To conclude, my bill is aimed at increasing responsibility for treason, espionage, diversion, military blockage, secession. I'm going to the Ukrainian Parliament, I'm going to the Ukrainian citizens. Ukraine can only protect itself on one condition: if we act decisively, if we root out the disease of separatism. People in Lugansk, in Donetsk, in Kharkish -- they ask the authorities to stop the terrorists, they ask the authorities to order. They want to live in Ukraine’s only, independent, sovereign. The task of the Ukrainian Parliament is to protect Ukraine, to make decisions that will destroy the separatist plague that will stop the aggression of the foreign state. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m0.u24	Thank you. Dear colleagues, regarding the regulations, I would like to listen carefully. When we agreed on a shorter procedure, we said that we would not limit it in the time of the interviewers so that they could still reveal the content of the law. I would ask the rapporteurs to take a closer look at the content of the law. Please, Sergey Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m0.u25	Dear colleagues, this is a bill that regulates the most serious crimes -- crimes against the state. This is a bill that allows the internal affairs authorities, the Ukrainian Security Service, the Ukrainian courts to apply the same rules that apply in any state of the world. Moreover, even in a terrible dream, we could not imagine that our cities would be moving around with grenades, with machine guns, and that would be observed by security officials, representatives of internal affairs. I think that the moment has come when Parliament should give green light to those who are trying to overthrow the Ukrainian state system by armed means, those who are trying to take over administrative buildings by armed means should be held accountable in accordance with our current legislation. My law provides for a higher term of responsibility for the most serious crimes against the state. I have a request for this bill: to adopt it in the first reading. This bill is fundamental so that any addition to this bill can be made. And I'd like to support him, given the moment that's in the state today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m0.u26	Please, the chairman of the committee, Andriy Anatoliyovich Kožemyakin.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m0.u27	Good afternoon! Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! Indeed, Bills 4524 and 4524-1: Amendments to the Criminal Code of Ukraine (to increase responsibility for crimes against the foundations of national security of Ukraine) are alternative. They were introduced by the national deputies Oleg Lazko and Sergey Sobolev respectively. December 1, 2014. On April 1, we looked at it on the committee. The aim of the draft legislation is to increase accountability for crimes against the foundations of Ukraine's national security, as the authors themselves have just said: for actions aimed at violating territorial integrity and the integrity of Ukraine, for diversion, for espionage, and for action against peace, human security and international law. If Bill 4524, author of which is Mr. Lazko, provides for an exclusive increase in sanctions until the death of the alleged crimes. The bill 4524, author of which is Mr. Sobolev, in addition to strengthening sanctions, proposes to supplement the Criminal Code of Ukraine with a new article 114-1 entitled “Prohibition of the legitimate activities of the Armed Forces of Ukraine and other military formations”, and also proposes to amend article 279 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine. So Bill 4524-1 is slightly broader and more effective in combating crimes against the foundations of Ukraine's national security. Thus, the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the outcome of the plenary session in the first reading of draft Law No. 4524 (author – Oleg Lazko) to reject, and draft Law No. 4524-1 (one of the authors of Sobolev) to adopt, as a basis. The Chief Expert Office suggests that both bills be redrafted. That's why I think we can take it as a whole, Alexander Valentinovich. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m0.u28	Thank you, Andriy Anatolyovich. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask that we sign up for this short-term speech and then move on to making a decision on this very important issue. Please sign in, please. People's MP Melnik, Freedom faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m0.u29	Eugene Melnik, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Please give the floor to the national deputy, Andri Mishchenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m0.u30	Please turn on Andrew Mishchenka's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m0.u31	Andrew Mishchenko, All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. The period of armed aggression by Russia against the peaceful Ukrainian people, when the Kremlin agents are doing a diversified work, taking into account the events in Crimea and now the latest developments in the three eastern areas of Ukraine. The increased responsibility for crimes against the foundations of Ukraine's national security, namely, for actions aimed at violating territorial integrity, as well as for Ukraine's integrity behind the diversion of espionage, as well as actions against peace, security and international order, are extremely relevant. Both laws deserve attention. However, in our opinion, the bill, Sergio Soboljeva, has the advantage of introducing a new standard of criminal responsibility for obstructing the activities of the Armed Forces of Ukraine and other military formations. That's what the Green Men did at the beginning of the Crimea conflict, and there's also some efforts by people now in three eastern areas to do the same. Therefore, the faction of the All-Ukrainian Union of Freedom supports the adoption of Bill 4524/1 in the first reading by Sergio Sobolev. Glory to Ukraine! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m0.u32	Thank you. Please, People's Deputies, Fatherland faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m0.u33	Please pass the word to Viacheslav Krilenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m0.u34	Please, Viacheslav Kirilenko is on his way out to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m0.u35	Viacheslav Kirilenko, Party "For Ukraine!"The Fatherland." Dear voters, dear colleagues! Certainly, events in Ukraine are unprecedented and require unprecedented decisions on our part. The so-called "Donor Republics", the so-called "Hark People's Republic", and other creatures that will be exported here to Ukraine in the Kremlin dungeons. So the export of Separatism, which is now being applied by the Kremlin, to Ukraine must have an appropriate response from the Ukrainian State. And in that sense, by the way, the sanctions proposed in the Lachka Bill don't seem too harsh to me. Yes, 15 years or permanent imprisonment with confiscation of property. And if the bloodshed starts, God forbid, it starts on the street, then people will all say that these sanctions are not cruel, but are minimally necessary to contain this possible bloodshed. Who's there to activate this situation? Mostly citizens of another country, the Russian Federation. Basically, they are citizens in pursuit and have sworn allegiance to another country, the Russian Federation. The Ukrainian State must respond to such manifestations. And all crimes related to espionage, diversion, assault on territorial integrity, the blockade of the Ukrainian Armed Forces should be given proper reprisals. Most people in Kharkishte and Donbas view the prospects of being in a single state in an absolutely calm and sober manner. Yes, there are problems, above all, of an economic nature, but this does not mean that the majority of the population in the eastern regions are in favor of separation from Ukraine. A week ago, I was in Donetsk, I was seeing ordinary people, and I had a big meeting, 500 people at Donetsk University -- no question of whether Donbas was separated was asked by students.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m0.u36	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m0.u37	I'm a student. And this is the future elite of the East and all of Ukraine. The questions were about economics, humanitarian policy, and employment prospects in the country. So all that's happening in the eastern region right now is artificial and needs a corresponding decision from the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We're voting for both these bills. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m0.u38	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Herman, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m0.u39	The task of all of us here, regardless of which party or faction we belong to, is to ensure that Ukraine remains a whole state and that the east of Ukraine remains a part of the Ukrainian state. But one simple thing to understand is that people need to be spoken to, people need to be listened to, and people need to go to meetings. We have to do parliamentary hearings here, and that is, right now, of those problems that concern people in the East, together, sit down here and work out a plan of understanding together. We cannot speak to our people by force today; we cannot make the mistakes that our authorities made when Midan began. We thought some of them were exiles from the West, and now you think they're exiles from Russia. And we forgot about the people, and you forget about the people. (Noise in the hall) These moods, which are now there, have a social background. You can yell here all you want, but until you start talking to the East, until you learn to listen to all of Ukraine, you will continue to work on its division. I think any force action today against people who think otherwise is a huge mistake of power. Arsenius Yatsenuk made a good messenger of his time and gave several clear mediators to open a dialogue with the East. Sadly, those words hung in the air. I urge you to immediately call parliamentary hearings and listen to people from the East and together together! – draw a plan to get out of the situation so that we can save Ukraine an independent, strong and only state. But by force and by the boards neither we nor you. (Noise in the hall)
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m0.u40	Anna Mikolayevno, regarding the hearings, please make a draft decision. Dear colleagues, from the strike faction is the people's deputy, Rosenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m0.u41	Please pass the word to Sergey Kaplin.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m0.u42	Please, Sergey Kaplin is speaking. I am. Sergei, one minute. I ask the Secretariat to announce in the watchtowers that all the deputies come to the hall, and there will be a vote now.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m0.u43	Sergey Kaplin, Vitaly Klitschka Faction, Poltavščina, 144th constituency. Together with the rise, a significant increase in the responsibility for separatism, the new authorities must finally begin to deal with the real problems and economic problems of the ordinary people of Kharkiv, Lugansk, Donetsk, Mikolai, Herson. It must be made clear that as long as such work is carried on exclusively through a television set that the new authorities have traded in oligarchs instead of new positions and the preservation of their right to continue looting the Ukrainian people. If you can't do it, then this estaphet of saving the economy of these areas is going to be taken over by the Ukrainian Parliament and we have to remember that we live in the parliamentary-presidential republic. That's why yesterday I registered a draft decree on the appointment of a South Eastern development authority. The Ukrainian Parliament must consolidate, build a clear structure and obtain the necessary powers and also appoint a responsible person to coordinate the work primarily in the legislative sense, on the committees of hundreds of bills that can and will contribute to the economic and social development of these regions. Similarly, we should clearly build the necessary information and propaganda campaign, which will consist not only in the demonstration of video on television, but also in the visits of seniors not only in Donetsk, Lugansk and Kharkiv, but in every village, in every centre, in every small mere hundred where we have to explain to those citizens that the new government is.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m0.u44	Let me finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m0.u45	That the new authorities came to fight corruption, especially corruption, not Donbas or South Ukraine. And the last. It is unacceptable to continue the practice of financing presidential protection at the expense of tax payers, those in whom benefits are collected, of material aid to which taxes are increased. That's why I registered, and I'm sure there's a bill to be considered this week, when we deprive ourselves of the possibility, especially the presidential separatist candidates, of protecting ourselves at the expense of ordinary Ukrainian citizens. I demand the adoption of this bill this week, and I also demand that a responsible South Eastern development authority be appointed this week. We have to save jobs, we have to save Donbas social protection, we have to hear every single person in Donbas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m0.u46	Thank you. Please, Your Honor, the faction of "European Sovereign Ukraine" also insists on speaking. Please, Muchensky, the National MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m0.u47	Dear colleagues, distinguished people of Ukraine! I was in Lugansk County for three days, 12 meetings, a live air for an hour and a half. And in that time, I haven't met any questions about separatism. Our electors, my constituents, our Ukrainian citizens, who live in the Red Luche region of the Perval region, are loving Ukraine and do not want any offices from Ukraine. The only request is that I briefly request and submit a request to the inhabitants of Luhansk that power finally be the authority. People are asking for faster protection from these FSB special operations. The Party of Regions and Communists is still behind this. That's what everyone's talking about. Also, literally taking this opportunity, I want to say. Ten days ago, my hostess was shot. The receiver was shot.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m0.u48	Allow me to finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m0.u49	The receiver was shot with a firearm. There's no power reaction. The representatives of the BSS were not even present, although it was clearly a terrorist act. Once again, I turn to power. It's time to be in power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m0.u50	Thanks for the show. I'm tasking the Security Service with immediate action on the attack on the receiving national MP. Dear colleagues, please give me a minute from the Committee of the Jurassic. And I will give the author the law, and we will vote. I ask the secretariat once again to ask the deputies to come to the hall and to join forces at their places of work, prepare for the vote. Now we're going to make a very important decision. Please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m0.u51	Dear colleagues, we have two bills. Legislature of Oleg Láška and Bill of Sergey Soboljeva. From a legal point of view, Sergio Soboljeva's bill is more perfect and more balanced. Which is strictly legal. There are shifts to a series of sanctions, a series of articles, 110, 111, 113, and 114. This is an attack on the territorial integrity and integrity of Ukraine, the diversion, the blocking of transport communications, and the capture of the transport business, and the espionage. And it is added to article 116 — espionage, article 114 with badge 1 — the obstacle to the legitimate activities of the Ukrainian Armed Forces and other military formations. I want to tell you that there are similar laws in all civilized countries. The adoption of this bill is based on the situation in Ukraine. We need to take care of Ukrainian statehood. I'd like to say that not only the committee, but the Economic Development Group will support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m0.u52	Thank you. Please, Oleg Lazko, the author of the law, and we will make a decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m0.u53	I fully support the suggestions of fellow MPs who call for dialogue, the need to hear people from the east of the country, from the west, from the center, from the north. That's absolutely right. And if we have to hold parliamentary hearings, let's do it. Let us discuss in a calm way the problems that exist in our country, how we can solve these problems in order not to unify Ukraine but to unite. But there can be no negotiation with terrorists and with those who have taken arms, who have held people hostage, with Russian divers and spies. Talk only one: the terrorists have two ways – either to prison or to the foot forwards to the cemetery. There's no other way. As for the bills that were discussed here. I agree to support the bill of colleague Sobolev, and I hope that Parliament will support it, and I will vote for it too. But I'm asking my colleague Soboljev's bill to consider my amendment. To article 49 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine, which provides
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m0.u54	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m0.u55	which provides for the release from criminal liability in connection with the end of the ages, in part five, to be added: the statute of limitations is not applied in the case of crimes against the fundamentals of Ukraine’s national security provided for in articles 109, 114. Next, according to the text. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m0.u56	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'm asking you to take your seats. Colleagues, please take your seats. I've given you the opportunity to speak. We're about to vote. Peter Alexiovich, colleagues, please sit down. (Noise in the hall) You've heard the offer of an honorary MP. I gave everyone a chance to speak. I've given myself the opportunity to sign up for factions. I'll give you a chance, we'll vote, and we will. I'll give you a chance to speak. Colleagues, I'd like to draw your attention to Oleg Valeriovich Laska's proposal. He also, like the committee, proposes to support one Law 4524/1, taking into account the law he brought. So there's a proposal, your honorary colleagues, that we immediately vote on the basis of Law 4524/1. Is there no objection? None. I ask for the inclusion of the Council system and to support Act 4524/1 on amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine to increase responsibility for crimes against the foundations of Ukraine's national security. Vote please, Your Honor. [[11:13:25]] For 230 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I am addressing you. Can we, in general, adopt the law? No objections? Please, Your Honor, support this bill as a whole. Please activate the "Council" system and vote. In general. With the amendment of Oleg Laska. [[11:13:52]] For 231 Decision taken. Congratulations, dear fellows. This is a very important decision. The factions, please. Region Party – up to 1, Fatherland – 82, Impact – 30, Economic Development – 26, 24 – Sovereign European Ukraine, 32 – Freedom, 0 – Company, non-fractional – 36. Dear colleagues! During the Conciliation Council, you and I discussed the inclusion in the agenda of the day session of a list of legislative acts related to anti - crisis measures by the government, as well as proposals from all deputies, from all factions and MPs. Dear colleagues, there was an offer on the Conciliation Board a package to make that decision. With your permission, I would now like to read out the number of laws that are proposed to be included in the agenda -- please, Your Honor, don't disagree, this is an important issue -- and we would like to take a package of decisions with you, just as we agreed on the Conciliation Council. I, my dear colleagues, call these laws, which, once again, I want to say not only from the government, but also from all the MP factions and groups. I'll name it, and after that, when there's a denial on some issue, I can either delete it, or add it so that we can make an important decision and not delay time from procedural issues. Please, Your Honor. This is government law No. 4556 (to amend certain legislative acts in the field of State anti-corruption policy in connection with the implementation of the European Union’s Action Plan on Liberalisation of the Visa Regime for Ukraine). It's a very important question. Draft Act (4607) amending the current legislation of Ukraine on citizens' rights in the fight against corruption and abuse of power. Project 4591: Draft Act amending the Code of Budgets for Ukraine (in order to increase the financial autonomy of the Crimea AR and the city of Sevastopol). A timely project. 4587 and 4587-1: Draft Law on State Procurement (new edition). You know, your honors, how important this is for us to actually fight corruption and have transparent purchases from the state. 4590: Draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the provision of information on State registration of rights and their burdens from the State Register of Real Estate Rights. 4404, 4404-1: Drafts of the Act amending certain legislative acts to increase the liability for violations of legislation in the area of administrative services. 4584: Draft Act on Amendments to the Law on the Free System of Economic Activities on Improving the Procedure for the issuance of documents of a permissive nature issued by the central executive authorities. 4582: Draft Law amending certain legislative acts to certify the authenticity of copies of documents and their statements and the validity of the signature on documents. The following question is the draft Law (4583) on metrology and metrology. 4585: draft Standardization Act. 4586: Draft Act amending certain legislation on the protection of investor rights. Project 4551: Draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine relating to the activities of the Authorized Supreme Council for Human Rights in the field of personal data protection. 4580: Draft Act amending article 1 of the Ukrainian Law on Refugees and Persons requiring Additional or Temporary Protection. Draft Law 4581: Draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine (to prevent and combat discrimination). Project 4574: Draft Act on Amendments to Ukrainian Laws on the Fundamentals of Social Protection of Homeless Persons and Homeless Children. It's a very important question. 4573: draft Act on the National Bureau of Anti-Corruption Investigations. 4160, 4160-d: Draft Act amending the Budget Code to bring it into line with the Constitution of Ukraine. Draft Law 4540, 4541, draft Act amending the Law on the Judiciary and Status of Judges. 4344: Draft Law amending the Law on Elections of the Supreme Council of the ARC, Local Councils, Rural, Rural, Urban Heads (for details of the election of city heads). 4595: Draft Act amending certain legislative acts relating to the provision of voting abroad. Project 4369: Amendments to the Ukrainian Act on Social and Legal Protection of Military Servants and Members of Their Families. 4566, 4566-1: Draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine to regulate the definition and repayment of debt obligations arising from incomplete energy bills. 4345: Draft Act amending the Appendix to the Supreme Council Order on Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. 4506: Draft Act amending article 73 of the Ukrainian Labour Act on the establishment of a holiday day on March 9. 4608: Draft Act amending article 110 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine (to increase criminal responsibility for illegal placement in Ukraine of State symbols of other States). 4621: Draft Act amending certain legislative acts (to prohibit foreigners and non-citizens from participating in political activities in Ukraine). 4644: Draft Law amending certain laws (to improve energy bills). 4645: Draft Act amending the Tax Code and some other Ukrainian legislation on the elimination of certain inconsistencies in legislation. 4646: Draft Act amending the Customs Code of Ukraine. 4647: Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code. 4648: Draft Act on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts (for specific provisions of social policy). That's all, dear fellows. I am addressing the House, the National Deputies, the Honorable People's Deputies, please, I see all your hands. Now I'm going to give everyone a chance to come out of this. The only thing I'd like to ask you to do is add laws to this list. But the request is not to exclude laws. Because right now we're not looking at the content of the question, not the essence of these laws, but just about putting them into the agenda. Is there no objection? Include 4238. It's gonna be legal. I don't mind, we're turning on 4238. Please turn on Alexandra Kugel's microphone. I see hands, I'll give you a chance.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m0.u57	Thank you. Thank you, Alexander Valentinovich. I ask for Law 4573 to add Law 4573-1, which is an alternative to the National Bureau of Anti-Corruption Investigations. And add Law 2012a, which allows you to monitor all state spending online. Feeding is Law 2829, which regulates the establishment of the National Council. This is a requirement of a resuscitation package of reforms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m0.u58	Please, I see that no one is denying that we will include these projects in the list of laws that we are about to vote on including their dogs in the order of the day of our session. Please turn on the microphone of the people’s deputy Zuravsky. My colleagues, I'll do it again.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m0.u59	Dear colleagues, when you did not know what to do, looked at the Rules. After all, we must be law-abiding and watch as prescribed in the Rules. Each draft law, the draft decree is separate from the vote, not the package. Let's still be law-abiding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m0.u60	Dear colleagues, I want to remind you that when we form the order of the day session and we include about 200 to 300 legislative acts, we always do it as a package. And if there weren't so many proposals from factions, we would certainly be doing it that way. But there's a form of work for the Supreme Council and we're spending a lot of time on questions that aren't explained by the content of the law. Let's use this time to make sense. Please, Deputy Cherneg, I saw my hand raised.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m0.u61	Thank you, Alexander Valentinovich. Dear colleagues, I am grateful that we have included and will consider the issue of the elimination. But, Mr. Chairman and honourable colleagues, I strongly urge that this issue be considered. Alexander Valentine's Day, I'm sorry, I'm asking you to listen to the idea of the impact faction, and I think we're supported by other members of the coalition that this issue should be considered today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m0.u62	It's the number of the law again.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m0.u63	A bill on the elimination of the utilizational congregation. Today. 4238.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m0.u64	I see. Dear colleagues, 4238, we have this law under consideration on Thursday. Why Thursday, because it's only tomorrow for the committee to take place? Now. Which we should be able to carry out. I'm going to the head of the profile committee. To the profile committee. Is there a head of the profile committee? Mr. Homutinnick, can we consider this law today? The committee will now be able to hold an urgent meeting with us to consider today. The committee? I can see what we can do. Dear colleagues, I do not deny that we should consider this law today. I support the proposals of the people's deputies. I'd like to ask the committee to hold a meeting so that we can make a positive decision today. Please turn on the microphone, Sergio Soboljeva. Colleagues, I only ask that the position of the faction be expressed because from faction to five hands I see. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m0.u65	Alexander Valentinovich, I have announced proposals from factions, three bills. They're ready for consideration -- 4632 -- about the High Council of Justice, because without it, it's impossible to restore trust in judges, it's 2829 -- the National Council, the accelerated version of it, and 4401 is also related to it. They are ready, the committees have even begun to consider them. If you can turn them on. And the final request: vote for the conclusion of the agenda, we are voting today. This needs to be done in the morning so that the utilization congregation can be similarly approved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m0.u66	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have agreed that we will include all proposals for inclusion in the agenda in this package so that there is no contradiction. Capplin's national MP, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m0.u67	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! Once again, 99 percent of Ukrainian citizens believe that the actions of today’s authorities, including the forces on Donbassa, are vulnerable. And so I think our Parliament should take the initiative and save the country from left to right. We have to assign a Southern Eastern development authority to take full, absolute parliamentary control of everything that Avakov does, everything the Ukrainian Security Service does, everything that everyone does without exception, including the ministries, which should provide conditions for the development of the social and economic sphere in Donbassa and in southern Ukraine. We have to save jobs in Donbassa, we have to save people who face great problems because of the new laws we passed here, we have to carry the common people of Donbas.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m0.u68	Dear colleagues, all I ask is that you prepare the projects. Bills of Laws, register them and call those numbers for inclusion in the agenda. I'm asking for political speeches we've had in the morning, and I've heard it all the second time. Please, National Deputy Mishchenko, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m0.u69	Dear Alexander Valentinovich, distinguished colleagues, I have a constructive proposal before we vote. I agree with you that the package is better to vote, and you can move on to decisions. But I know what moods are in the room. If we put it now, this package, it won't be voted out, because there are some laws there before Tax, Customs, another that we haven't seen in our eyes, so I can predict that the votes for the package won't fit. If he doesn't, Alexander Valentine's Day, it's no big deal if we put every single bill and vote for it, what Deputy Zharavsky said about the Rules, because it's according to the Rules. And secondly, I am grateful to those faction leaders, Oleg Tuggnibok, for trying to place my inheritance laws in this order of days on the Conciliation Council. But oddly enough, Thursday one stands, and the one in the package to the Tax Code is not until next week. So I ask them to unite and put two on Thursday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m0.u70	Dear colleagues, I only turn to Mr. Yatzenko, Mr. Golko, to speak. Dear colleagues, I am addressing you, we are not voting for the content of these laws right now. The government makes laws. When we discuss them on committees, in the hall, then we will make decisions. Now I ask, Your Honor, that we be without exception, you see, all the proposals made by the national MPs are included in the agenda. And let's not waste our time, it's too expensive. I see everyone. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m0.u71	Dear colleagues, the honourable chairman! I have two requests. First, so that we do not go back to this shameful practice of buttoning, which one pushes for the other, for two, for three, and so on. So now let's all keep track of each other so that we don't let that happen. And second. With all due respect to colleague Kugel, but Bill 4573-1 was only registered yesterday, he's not on the Supreme Council website, he hasn't passed the committee and there's no conclusion of scientific expertise. That's why we can't include all the bills in ambulance mode, we have to go through the procedure. Please take this into account. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m0.u72	Dear colleagues, we're putting in the order of the day, not today, not this week, but the sessions as such. It'll be time for the committees to consider it, and the expert board to draw a conclusion. Without that, we will not bring them into the hall. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m0.u73	Mikhailo Golovko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, 164 constituency, Ternopolishte. Ladies and gentlemen, Your Honor Alexander Valentinovich! There is a proposal for you to include in the agenda a very important bill, 4131, which is called: "To amend the Criminal Code of Ukraine (to increase the responsibility for violating the territorial integrity and integrity of Ukraine)". This bill has already been registered for three months, it is very relevant to the present and the situation that Ukraine is experiencing, because we will be able to protect the sovereignty and independence of our state, stop all those separatist actions in the East, promote federalization and so on. For us, therefore, it is essential to preserve the integrity of the Ukrainian State. I'm asking you to ask this question so that we can include the bill in the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m0.u74	I would also like to take this bill into account when voting for the package for inclusion in the agenda of the session. Dear colleagues, the national deputy Agaphonov wishes to add further to this package. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m0.u75	The Faction UDA requests the inclusion in the agenda of Bill No.4638 on amendments to the Ukrainian Act on the Capital of Ukraine, the City of Kiev. We've talked a lot about the fact that, in fact, the Kiev city head doesn't have real powers right now. So in order to restore his status as a real head and the ability to really influence the situation in the city, please include this bill in the consideration.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m0.u76	Number, please tell me again.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m0.u77	4638.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m0.u78	4638 we're putting it in order. To our package. Dear colleagues, can we ask questions for a vote? I'm talking. (Noise in the hall) Dear colleagues! (Noise in the hall) Please give Oleg a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m0.u79	Oleg Tuggnibok, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Alexander Valentinovich! 4570 -- the law on the illustration of "Freedom" has been introduced a long time ago. Since there are other bills, including factions, from the majority coalition, we also propose that this bill be included in the consideration and resolution of the issue, and put a dot on the problem. 4570. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m0.u80	4570 m is also included in the ballot box. Dear colleagues, the only problem. I've been approached by some factions, they're supporting the package. They only ask that Laws 4645, 4646, 4647 be voted on separately. These are changes to the Tax Code. I understand that if I put them to the vote now without taking their proposals into account, I will not be able to get the required number of votes. So, dear colleagues, I'm taking into account all the suggestions that were announced in the session room. I'm asking all the national deputies to sit in their jobs, to check that the "Council" system works in your workplaces. Colleagues! I'm asking you, let's discuss this later. Then we'll have a discussion. Please take your seats. And now I'm asking you to take into account all the proposals that the National MPs have stressed, with the exception of laws 4645, 4646, 4647, to vote on the inclusion in the agenda of the day session. I'm just stressing, just for the day. It's not today's session, it's the sessions. Dear colleagues, I ask you to include the "Council" system and vote. Please be supportive. [[11:33:22]] For 207 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, by factions, please. I don't know what the problem is, why we don't vote. I emphasize, the Party of Regions is 0, Fatherland is 82, Strike 23, 28 is Economic Development, Sovereign European Ukraine is 12, Freedom is 31, 0 is a Company, non-fractional is 31. I'm addressing the head of the Sovereign European Ukraine. Is there a faction manager? Please, "North European Ukraine." I'm begging you, colleagues. Come on, Donny, please. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m0.u81	This is the principle position of the Group of Sovereign European Ukraine. We think it's a bad practice to break the Rules -- to vote with a pack. We demand a vote in favour of each of the bills for inclusion in the agenda of the day session separately as provided for in the Rules. And I'm going to remind you that a violation by the legislators as a violation of the button, is a violation of the communautaire, when they are both ministers and deputies. It's all passed down the chain. We should not show a negative example. We've now taken half an hour to actually discuss this package. We would have passed, voted on almost all the bills. We need the Rules, and that's what our Group "Supreme European Ukraine" insists on. Under the Rules, each bill shall be voted on separately.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m0.u82	Dear colleagues, I'm informing the Sovereign European Ukraine that it was an agreement on the Conciliation Council, first. Secondly, I inform you that this is a normal practice and there is no real violation of the Rules, two. The second question is, Your Honor. Now, now. I want to inform you that in order to break today's session, we can now pass these 40 laws through the vote. But I want you to know that none of them will pass, none of them will pass. So once again, I'm going to the "North European Ukraine" faction, when you want to break these questions, please let's experiment, but I'm not going to let you break the work of today's session, today's session. When this is a conscious position, please ask Mr. Jeremey's faction manager to turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m0.u83	Alexander Valentine's Day, today we have discussed the faction's meeting and decided that we support all of the bill's inclusion in the agenda. I approached you again and said we were ready to vote in favour of these bills. But we didn't discuss voting with a package. Thus, the faction in this situation abstained from voting.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m0.u84	Dear colleagues, you know very well when every law will be voted on separately, none of them will pass. You're going to waste time, and we're not going to make any decisions. So once again, I'm putting to the vote a proposal for a package that takes into account all the proposals made by the national MPs. In case this package doesn't pass, I'll even take these issues off the table, and none of these laws will be included in the agenda. Please prepare for the vote. Please turn on the "Council" system, please vote. [[11:36:45]] For 185 The decision is not taken. This question is being considered. This package is being downloaded. Please show the factions. We're taking out the whole package. Please: Regional Party – 0, Fatherland – 82, Impact – 4, Economic Development – 29, Sovereign European Ukraine – 9, Freedom – 32, Company – 0, non-fractional – 29. This question has been removed from the order of the day, respected colleagues. Please move on to the next question. To the next question, we are moving on, dear colleagues. I can get Victor Mikhailovich Pinzenic to express his position to the faction. But once again, we're not going to waste time conducting an experiment and no decision to make in Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m0.u85	Dear Alexander Valentinovich, dear colleagues! I wouldn't want a language of blackmail in this room. What's going on right now. (Applause) The strike faction is ready to support the vast majority of the bills that are foreseen. We are ready to support without discussion, including every bill. You call it a number, there's only 27 of them, it takes 10 minutes. But there are a few bills that we don't want to vote with a package because we're not ready to support. And that's why you don't vote now. That's why there's a proposal -- put it on each number, and the absolute majority of the projects will be included in the agenda.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m0.u86	Victor Mikhailovich, we already did an experiment with you when we broke the Local Elections Act. Once again, I know the moods of the hall, I've been approached by different factions and exclusive proposals, you know, exclusive: some uphold some laws, others support others. As a result, they're not going to pass. And you know it. Please turn on the microphone of the People’s Peacekeeper.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m0.u87	Alexander Mirny, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Respectable Society! Let us be consistent in what we declare. Because we first agree that we're voting for inclusion in the agenda, I emphasize, in the agenda, then we're voting on the mass of bills that are needed, and we've agreed to include them in the agenda, including the draft law on the utilization assembly, what concerns people and not just here, including the law on illustration, including all the laws that are needed by the countries. We heard Mr. Homutinick, and we separately produced those bills that raise questions. But all of a sudden, one vote -- one group turns out to be coalition, the other group turns out to be coalition. So let's stick to some clear positions if they are. Or then we say that.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m0.u88	Allow me to finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m0.u89	Thank you. Or then we say that our thoughts change within 5 minutes or 30 seconds, and we don't have a position at all. Either we're for the state, or we're for the people, or we're for our own narrow-party interests. There are no other options.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m0.u90	National MP Rudzkowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m0.u91	Ladies and gentlemen, I appeal to all of you to give up your ambitions, let's include this anti-corruption package that our voters are waiting for. Because people like the Supreme Council and people who listen to the Supreme Council, I think they're completely surprised. Like, when a country splits up, like, when there's no peace in the streets, like, when business can't get laws that protect their interests and make business transparent, the Supreme Council doesn't work. Alexander Valentine's Day, I think if the Supreme Council doesn't work, it doesn't even include in the order of the day laws, you put the question to a vote on the dissolution of Parliament and the parliamentary elections for the term. Let the deputies come who will work, who will be responsible for their duties. They have taken an oath to defend the interests of the people.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m0.u92	Thank you. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m0.u93	Oleg Lishko, Radical Party. Dear citizens of Ukraine, I want to address you because my fellow MPs know what's going on in the Supreme Council. Why do they not vote for the bills that the country needs? But it's because they didn't sell their jobs, or because they didn't. That's a very simple answer to a question. In doing so, they are covered by the Rules. And those who scream about the Rules will win billions of tenders at government expense. I'm asking what are these businessmen doing in the Supreme Council Hall? Go to the gas station, to the gas station, to the gas station, and everything else. And in Parliament, politicians have to work, in Parliament there are those who defend the interests of Ukrainian citizens. Dear Ukrainian community, if you see that these Darmoids don't work, take them out of the parasite's villas. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m0.u94	Dear colleagues, once again, we have all expressed ourselves on this point. My colleagues, I see we don't want to accept this package right now. So we move on to the next question of order of the day. To the next issue of the agenda, which is as important as all the other issues that have been raised for today's consideration of Parliament. Please, dear fellows! There is a proposal that Sergey Sobolev wanted to make, I do not deny that Parliament will now vote on the decision to continue working today until full consideration of the agenda. No objections? I'm making this proposal to support her. Please turn on the "Race" system. Please support the proposal to continue the work of today’s session until all issues of the agenda have been considered. Please turn on the "Race" system. Please vote. [[11:43:37]] For 210 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Regional Party - 0, Fatherland - 80, Impact - 30, Economic Development - 14, Sovereign European Ukraine - 26, Freedom - 32, Ukraine - 0, non-factional - 28. Dear colleagues, we now have a very important question, which concerns the holding of elections to local councils. You remember how hard it was, how long we had discussed it. And now I'm asking the head, if you'll excuse me, of the committee of profile, Secretary of the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government, Prince Ruslan Petrovich, to inform him of the changes that have been taken into account in this law. After that, we can go back to the matter and make a decision. And the decision can be only one thing — the whole adoption of this law, without which we will not be able to effectively campaign for local councils. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m0.u95	Thank you, Alexander Valentinovich. Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you that last time, on Friday last night, we have inexhaustiblely completed our consideration of this issue, since there is not enough parliamentary votes to accept it in general. At the same time, according to Parliament’s decision, the committee was asked to take into account the amendments that had been made in the session hall in the past or that had not been confirmed by the session hall. Thus, we can say that all the amendments relating to the rights of the central governing body of the party to nominate candidates, to make proposals to electoral committees, to make proposals on the staff of official observers, authorized and trusted persons. Along with it. I'll finish, let me. At the same time, another amendment, which was not confirmed, now remained in the first reading. This is about the right to self-registration of candidates for the posts of correspondingly regional, city, district councils and corresponding city heads. However, if you remember, at the same time, we've decided that since we're restoring the right to self-determination, we're tasking the committee to develop a draft amendment to the law as part of the monetary bond as a mechanism that, let's say, would be somewhat difficult for those who, let's say, do not want to exercise their candidate rights properly. This has to do with technology, including technology. You realize that the presence of an infinite number of candidates in office can make it difficult to produce a newsletter and, I don't say, it's convenient for voters to use it. Thus, our committee has prepared amendments to the law, in particular, we consider it appropriate to add a new article 42 to the law with a badge 1, which will be called the "Currency of Money", which is proposed that the monetary stand be submitted by candidates to the Supreme Council of the ARK Crimea, district, district, district, district council and city council candidates. We believe that candidates for rural and rural councils, as well as candidates for rural and rural head positions, who can now be chosen by law by self-regulatory to set up a mortgage in an unprofitable way, because, as practice has shown, there are not so many candidates for positions that would make it impossible for the technology to produce ballot papers. On the contrary, we have a practice, unfortunately too, a sad practice, a sad experience when we lack any candidate at all for this kind of position.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m0.u96	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m0.u97	proposes to determine the size of the cash pledge for each administrative and territorial unit in proportion to the number of voters included in the National Electoral Register in the respective territory. In particular, it is proposed that the city head be appointed. As well as candidates for the Supreme Council of the A.R. Crimea, district, district, city, district, city council appointed in a multi-mandatory district, its size was calculated by calculating two monthly minimum wages per hundred thousand constituencies. It is also proposed that for candidates in one-mandom majority districts, this amount be divided into the number of one-maned districts formed in the respective territory. For example, under these conditions, the size of the cash pledge for a candidate for the Kiev City Head and the election list of candidates for the Kyivrada nominated by the local organization of the party will be 53 thousand dollars, for a major candidate respectively – 880 dollars. And so in every district center where the elections will take place, for example, for the Odessa city head - 18,000, Mikolaivian-9, Hersonian-7, Church-6, Black 4.5. Clearly, this is a committee vision, and if a session hall finds it inappropriate to set such prices, it is its right to do so, the committee will refer the matter to the session. In addition, your honorary colleagues, I would like to point out that with regard to Amendment 233, which was proposed by National Deputy Suskevich, there was indeed a technical error, because the committee considered this amendment, and the table did not reflect it and we were forced to prepare again, to put it to the vote. This time the committee recalculated it, so 233 amendments were counted. But at the same time, it is suggested that it be taken into account with editorial detail. That is, to complete part 14 of article 70 with words: Taking into account the requirements of articles 7 and 8 of this Law. It's about a case where a person just physically can't do a little bit of work, and in this case he's entitled to help anyone there. Because if we write that no one should be there, it means that for such a category of people with disabilities, they will not physically be able to do it. It's accepted, Alexander Valentine's Day, which is what the committee got to, if you don't mind.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m0.u98	Dear colleagues, you have received information from the committee. These are changes to this law related to Parliament’s decision that not only representatives of political parties but also self - sufficiency can participate in the elections, and that is why the law has been developed in this direction. And now I see a few hands to give. Dear colleagues, I don't understand the limitations. To make a decision, we need colleagues to vote for him. In order to vote for him, people need to express their position. Stay, please, because the questions will be yours. Please, National Deputy Zharavsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m0.u99	Dear colleagues, the rules must be one, the selective attitude must be removed from our practice. Our group still insists on setting up the 308 for confirmation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m0.u100	I got the offer. Deputy Saldo, please. He supports this proposal, of course. National Deputy Catherinechuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m0.u101	Mikola Catherinechuk, European Party of Ukraine, Fatherland faction. Dear Alexander Valentinovich, ask for confirmation of Amendment 6 that was not under consideration last time.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m0.u102	Number 6 is about two rounds of election?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m0.u103	This refers to the election of city heads in cities with more than 500,000 electorates, which are conducted by a majority of the majority.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m0.u104	I got the offer. Dear colleagues, there is an offer. Let's include first, let's make a decision about going back to that question, or we're going to re-adjust you and we're not going to make a decision. That's why I'm asking, dear colleagues, a very important question. It also applies to the financing of local elections. When we do not accept it, we will question the holding of local elections. So let's go back to that question.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m0.u105	I just want to add that this law also regulates the simultaneous holding and the interim election of the Ukrainian National Deputy in the 83 constituency, there will be some kind of election in Ivano-Frankishte. So now we're talking about three election campaigns in one. It's very important.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m0.u106	It's very important, I agree with you, Ruslan Petrovich. Dear colleagues, about the Supreme Council to support the proposal. Please, Yuri, sit down so we can vote. To be confirmed. Let's go back to that question. So I ask the Supreme Council to support the proposal to return to this important issue. Let me remind you of the number of this project, 4526. We consider it in a second reading. Please go back to that. Sorry, 2664. I'm sorry, I didn't see the law. 2664. I ask the Supreme Council to support the return to this issue. Please vote. [[11:53:29]] For 239. Decision taken. Thank you. And so, honourable colleagues, two proposals were made. Let's do each of them in turn. The first 308. Will you comment, Ruslan Petrovich? Please comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m0.u107	I can comment that this amendment is no longer of such serious practical importance to me now, because the fourth number was launched by an electoral campaign, which is already being run by a valid electoral commission. And so, as it was then considered, it was relevant, and now its relevance is lost.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m0.u108	So anyway, when the MPs insist, let's put it on confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m0.u109	But I'm pointing out that in Odessa there are going to be circular election committees that we're going to be able to create under this law. If you do not vote on this law even though it is in this part or in general, there will be no district commissions in Odessa. And in the district commissions, each faction has the right to three guaranteed representatives of the commission. And that's much more important than TVC, which just kind of sanctifies the decisions of the district commissions.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m0.u110	Ladies and gentlemen, let's make our bids in order. To confirm it, I'm still betting that it's lost its validity, that it's not lost. I'm putting 308 amendments on confirmation. Please identify yourself in the hall. [[11:54:55]] For-163 Correction rejected. Please, Amendment No. 6. I'll remind you, a very important question, this is about the two-track elections in the cities of Ukraine, the number of voters. Mikolo Dmitrovich, right? Voters over 500,000. Dear colleagues, let us support both the city of Kiev and all the cities of the great Ukraine, so that citizens can make objective decisions regarding the selection of the mayors of these great and important cities. Please support this, confirm this amendment. Amendment number six, please confirm her vote. [[11:55:46]] For 199 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, by factions, please. The Regional Party is 0, Fatherland is 80, Strike 26, Economic Development is 12, Sovereign European Ukraine is 18, Freedom is 32.0 - Company, 31 is non-fractional. Dear colleagues, I am addressing Mikli Dmitrovitch, all the deputies who have supported this proposal. So that we don't ruin the adoption of this law. Well, that's really what we need to do. Because without it the local election system will not work, and before the election in the constituencies. We will return to the two elections this week in a separate law that applies to the city of Kiev. And I'm sure we'll find a balance of votes in the room. We'll work in this direction and find a balance. So, dear colleagues, I ask you very much right now, in general, to support this law so that we can ensure that the elections are held with you. Please. I'm sorry, turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m0.u111	Dear Mr. Alexander Valentinović, I ask that amendment No. 307 be included in the confirmation that the electoral process has begun and that the electoral commissions have begun their work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m0.u112	Dear colleagues, please comment on this.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m0.u113	There's one nuance. The point is that according to the law, the territorial election commission in Odessa is obliged to form a district of the commission. And here's the thing about Kiev, I get it, it's about TVC, and it's about the circuits of the commission. And according to the law, the Kiev commission is formed by a central election commission. In 49 days, documents are filed, and in 45 days they are formed. I'm pointing out that we are now at 146 days, so the Central Election Commission has already lost that right. If you delete this amendment, and there's an order for it to acquire such a right no later than on the third day. (Noise in the hall)
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m0.u114	Dear colleagues, we're going to break the election in Kiev. You want to break the election in Kiev, let's do it. You're being thanked by the kyans, I think, frankly, from the bottom of my heart. So, honourable colleagues, I'm asking you to take into account these positions that we've discussed, in general, to enact this law. It's very important. Please, Your Honor, take your seats and support Bill 2664 as a whole. Please, Your Honor, vote. [[11:58:40]] For 252 Decision taken. Thank you, we have arranged for you to hold elections to the local councils and have saved a serious amount of government funds. Dear colleagues, we announce a recess of up to 12 hours for 30 minutes. I'm asking all deputies exactly at 12 o'clock 30 minutes to meet in this room. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m0.u115	They're asking to take a break for consultations between the leaders of the MPs and the factions. I'm calling a break for 20 minutes, so at 12.50, we'll keep you working. I ask, Your Honor, during this recess, to meet immediately the leaders of the MP groups and factions in the office of the Chief of the Supreme Council. Please, Your Honor, I'm addressing everyone in 10 minutes to have the entire room ready for important responsible decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m0.u116	Dear national deputies, dear colleagues! Now, you see, there was a very difficult meeting of the Conciliation Board of Heads of Deputies and Groups, an incident that took place in Parliament in the morning. And the Conciliation Council, MPs, representatives of all groups and factions condemn the use of force in any form in the Parliamentary Hall. Moreover, all faction leaders agreed that the parliamentary chamber would no longer use the power of some deputies against others. It's very important. It is important, your fellow Members, that this is not left to be said, but that, in fact, we should be with you when we talk about the fact that the rule of law is being built in Ukraine, we also demonstrate it in Parliament. When. It's also the task of the leaders of the MPs and factions: when any MP goes to the humiliation of another MP, the insults or statements, the slogans that are in violation of the valid Constitution and Ukrainian legislation, the chairman will have to rule out the microphone of such a national MP. That is exactly what we agreed on at the Conciliation Council. And I hope that at 16 o'clock, when our Parliament starts to work, we'll all really be holding this position. But in order for me not to turn off the microphone, I very much ask all the national MPs to clearly identify their position within the limits of the law, the Constitution and my speeches also not to disturb the situation both in the hall and in the country. A break of 16 hours is announced. I apologize for my colleagues to all the national MPs. Thank you.
