ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national MPs! Please sit at your workplace and prepare for registration. Please turn on the "Race" system. People's deputies please register. [[10:02:45]] Two hundred and twenty-seven national deputies. We're starting the morning session. Dear colleagues! I'm asking everyone to take their seats. We have a very tense and responsible day - to - day routine. I would ask, fellow believers, taking into account the most important issues that we need to consider today, this question and the appeal to the United Nations is a matter of national security. It's about creating the National Guard. I'd like to sign up for the factions and give people three minutes to speak. Please, from the Fatherland faction, National Deputy Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u2	Dear colleagues, we are addressing the national MPs, representatives of all factions, today to organize our work in such a way that we can go through the painful points that people today call upon to defend Ukraine's national interests and territorial integrity. It is extremely important today to vote on the bill to create the National Guard, because we understand very well that the aggression of the Russian Gulf towards Crimea is obviously not going to end with Crimea. And we need to understand that the Ukrainian Armed Forces are joined by those who are capable of protecting the Fatherland, capable of protecting its territorial integrity and unity. For us today, it is essential to vote on a bill to restore confidence in the judicial system. Because, Alexandre Volodymyrovich, we have information that today we have a group of comrades who are already advising Putin and the President's capital administration, a group of prominent lawyers, working together with their judges to prepare and not accept valid authority and non-recognition, in fact, Ukraine as a state today. Therefore, it is important that there be people in the judicial system who are able to protect, not Yanukovitch of Rostov, but Ukrainians and Ukrainian states in Kiev. Today, it is vital to raise a whole range of problems that are not present. Alexander Valentinovich, I ask you to conduct an educational work with the Supreme Council's apparatus. I feel that Ukraine has changed, and nothing has changed with them. They keep the order of the day as if we are living in a peaceful European state where nothing is happening. Friends, two days later, there's a pseudo-eferendum in the country, and we don't know what the agenda is. I suggest you take a break, if you have to, advise, radically change the agenda. The agenda should be aimed at ensuring territorial integrity, ensuring national security, making the decisions that people demand of us and, Alexander Valentine's Day, to make human resources decisions. We've passed a bill on the Freedom of Speech Committee, we need to release the head of the Derteradio today, we need to start updating the system of state and municipal media that has lied to the Ukrainian people in recent years, and we need to speak the truth today. We need to adopt a directive on the moratorium on mass media screenings, because we already have the power to change, but the tax and fire department that bribes are used to taking before elections goes back and takes bribes. So this is our position: the basic bills that I have called, the appeal of the Supreme Council to the United Nations Organization -- no questions, we vote; the election of the Constitutional Court -- we vote; two bills -- we vote. Everything else, when, for example, there is a vote in favour of the members of the Constitutional Court, a change in the order of the day and work in such a way that we know that we are spending time here and working to protect Ukraine and its territorial integrity. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u3	Thank you. From the faction of the Party of the Regions, the National Deputy of the Evening.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u4	Dear Alexander Valentinović, distinguished people's deputies, citizens of Ukraine! Today we have the first item on our agenda: the appeal of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the United Nations. I would like to remind you that we have already had two appeals, we have addressed the Supreme Council, organizations, world organizations. I think that's enough. And today, when there is an opportunity for a peaceful and diplomatic path to bring the legal order to Crimea, I think our faction also advises us not to make such a treatment not to aggravate, but to wait and resolve diplomatically all questions concerning the Crimea. Second question. About the establishment of the National Guard. It is necessary to make it clear that this is the National Guard and under what conditions it will be established. It'll be with the Ministry of Defense, it'll be with the Ministry of Internal Affairs, it'll be a contract service. It must be clearly defined first, for what it is created and for whom it is created. It is therefore necessary to delay, clearly identify these issues and then put them in the voting room. Once again, I would like to refer to all the people's deputies and to all the citizens of Ukraine. Today we need to stabilize the situation in Ukraine, bring public order to the regions so that our children can go to school quietly, so that the retirees are not afraid to go to the streets and shop so that the students can take care of themselves. This needs to be brought to the attention of all today. And I also ask the people's deputies to work actively in the regions today. Why? Because today, on all the factions, all political parties depend on our future to create a new democratic State, a new Ukraine in a new Europe. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u5	Thank you. I just want to make a quick comment. Dear colleagues, the danger for Ukraine is real today. And to talk about what we're waiting for, there's nothing to wait for. We need to protect our Fatherland. And I'm asking respectable colleagues, regardless of their political power, to take responsibility for the position and the issues that are being addressed to the Supreme Council. Enough to play with. Please, from "Economic Development" Anatoly Kinach.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u6	Honourable national MPs, taking into account the increasing threats that directly affect the statehood, the territorial integrity of Ukraine, the national security of the Supreme Council of Ukraine as never before, are more likely to work in a consolidated, purposeful way and to do everything in a peaceful manner, based on the very strong support of the world European society, to protect their national interests, territorial integrity. We clearly need to take into account that escalation takes on an unprecedented scale the aggressive actions of the Russian Federation. Therefore, the unification of the Economic Development deputies clearly supports the need to refer the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the United Nations, including such United Nations structures as the United Nations Security Council, the United Nations Assembly, where requirements and support for Ukraine's territorial integrity should be clearly formulated. Including as the first and last nation in the world voluntarily renounced the third and potential nuclear weapons, and this should be taken into account in all decisions of the international community. Secondly, the integration of Economic Development supports the need for a dynamic review and adoption of the National Guard Act in the context of strengthening the protection of both the constitutional system in Ukraine and territorial integrity. We hope for a consolidated parliamentary position on these issues, and we need to act clearly, without reducing the quality of the decisions, given the scale of the risks and threats to our state. And the last. The parliamentary association "Economic Development" believes it is necessary to strengthen the interaction of parliament, government, the National Security Council and the defence of Ukraine in countering the information war, which has been severely involved in the information sphere of Ukraine in recent months. The point is that the citizens of Ukraine, and the world society, should have a clear picture of the events that are taking place in our nation. And here we need to act in a systematic manner, including specific means of bringing objective information to citizens, as a factor in the consolidation of the entire Ukrainian people and the state to protect our national interests. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u7	Thank you. The word is given by the "Freedom" faction of the People's Deputy Leonov.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u8	Please pass the word to Tegniboku Oleg Jaroslavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u9	Turn on Oleg Pullibok's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u10	Oleg Tuggnibok, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Respectful association, the Ukrainian people today demand decisive, concrete, and swift action from the Ukrainian Parliament. As the supreme legislative body of our nation, we must shoulder the responsibility that lies before us today. It is very positive that over the past few weeks Parliament has been working in the right and right regime. We voted on the decisions that were necessary, voted on by the constitutional majority, which confirmed the correctness of our steps. But today I and the faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, and I think all the Ukrainian patriotic society, are concerned about those very negative trends that are now beginning to creep into the environment of the Ukrainian Parliament. I appeal today to those people's deputies, to those factions who intend to sabotage the work of Parliament, who intend not to come at such an important time now for Ukraine to vote, not to vote, not to participate in Parliament, to think of various reasons why they don't. Society, responsibility, responsibility, and again responsibility before the Ukrainian people, before tomorrow, before our children today lie upon each one of us. No sabotage, we have to vote, we have to adopt the overwhelming decisions that are now being proposed in the agenda. We suggest that until we consider all the questions, we leave the hall! We suggest that the entire agenda be voted on today! Even if there are some contradictions or some thoughts about laws, such as the National Guard, about the clearance of power, about the return of confidence in the judges of the community, we can find consensus in this room, we can sit down, we can step back, we can get to the common denominator. And those who sabotage should be punished! Mr. Golovo, I have the following suggestion: to take down the salaries of all the deputies who are not in the hall now, who are going to the Council for no reason. I have a proposal for the entire nation to know the names of those deputies who do not vote and sabotage the work of the Ukrainian Parliament. Today, we must vote: we must clearly vote to the UN, now we must vote on the European structures for Ukraine’s readiness to sign the political part of the Association with Europe. We definitely need to get to a joint editorial, despite some of the different views of the National Guard Act, about restoring trust in judges. Today, the responsibility lies with each of us.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u11	Thank you. Dear colleagues! We're starting to look at the order of the day. I beg of you, Your Honor, we begin our consideration of the order of the day. All those who signed up, I gave my word to everyone. It's not Wednesday, it's not Tuesday, it's not. So, about the appeal of the Supreme Council to the United Nations. I ask you, Your Honor, we are now looking at a project registered under number 4418: the address of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the United Nations. Dear colleagues! All the national MPs have received this project, is it necessary to read it? None. Is there a question for this project? Talk about it? Okay, I'm asking you to sign up for the factions to discuss this project. Faction entry, please. Please, Faction Strike, People's Deputy Rosenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u12	Please pass the word to Irina Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u13	Please turn on Irina Heratchenko's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u14	Dear colleagues! It's quite obvious that we fully support the need to accept this statement. And it was a little strange today to hear some of the representatives of the Party of Regions talk about what still needs to be waited for. Colleagues especially wish to appeal to those who represent the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the Ukrainian Autonomous Republic of Crimea. Do you realize that since Monday you yourself, if we don't stop it today, will question your own legitimacy of presence in this session room? And it is quite obvious that this statement is even a stalemate, as in our view, regarding the appeal to the UN, because we have to appeal to the United Nations to exclude the Russian Federation as an aggressor and an occupying member of the UN Security Council on a permanent basis, because they do not have the right to occupy this place as a state that today does not bear peace but aggression and occupation on Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u15	Please, National Deputy Donny.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u16	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen! Well, our group hasn't been given the opportunity to speak out of the rostrum right now, so we're going to have to repeat these in general in terms of the situation in Crimea. In addition to statements, friends need to restore the executive vertical of authority. Without establishing a headquarters structure, either at the NPBO or at the government, there is no need to talk about overcoming the crisis in Crimea. They say there's a headquarters like this. Who is leading this headquarters in the face of the Crimean crisis, and who is it? I asked that Tuesday, I'm asking now. Friends, is this headquarters or is it underground? Why wasn't there a group in the Supreme Council to deal with the Crimean crisis and to create, to negotiate? I asked that question on Tuesday and I'm asking it now. We want to create this after the pseudo-referendum, or are we still going to be able to go through the Crimean crisis until then? I find it unacceptable to delay the Supreme Council itself, the weekly leave we had last time, and the fact that we did not hold a meeting yesterday. Once again, it looks like sabotage on our part. It's unacceptable. As for my appeal to the UN, once again, I believe that the Supreme Council of Ukraine should apply for the introduction of a peacekeeping contingent, because the practice has shown that the international community itself, by introducing peacekeeping forces, is helping to resolve conflicts. We have to understand that by ourselves military forces, we can't compete with the Russian Federation, we can't, we can't. This is a real situation. That is why we need not only some appeal to the international community but real help. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u17	Thank you. I'm the only one, dear colleagues, I'd still like to read this statement so that you don't make any suggestions that are already reflected in this reference. Please, National Deputy Sobolev, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u18	Please give the word to Boris Ivanovich Tarasyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u19	Please turn on Boris Ivanovich Tarasyuk's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u20	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! Ukraine has demonstrated and continues to show great restraint in a situation involving Russia’s unscrupulous aggression against part of our territory. All attempts to call on the Russian Federation in accordance with the charter of the United Nations, UN Security Council meetings have failed. Therefore, I find it entirely justified to appeal to the United Nations, in fact to which the Supreme Council of Ukraine will address the UN in order to hold a special session of the UN General Assembly. This address will open the way to a special session of the UN General Assembly that can make a decision in favour of Ukraine. Unfortunately, because of the veto power that Russia can and will use in the UN Security Council, we cannot expect to make a decision because Russia is itself an aggressor. That's why I think our faction supports this appeal as something that will pave the way for the convening of a special session of the UN General Assembly. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u21	Thank you. The word is given to the People’s Deputy Tihypco.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u22	Mr. Head, ladies and gentlemen! The position of the Party of Regions is as follows: we are consistently in favour of Ukraine's unity, speaking, speaking and speaking for Ukraine's unity. That's the first one. The other one. We support all the actions that the authorities are doing today to prevent provocations until there is a referendum in Crimea that we do not support. But today we feel that if we vote in favour of the United Nations, there are some expressions there that are provocative. We believe that we should vote after seeing what happens in Crimea. That is why there will be no voting for the Party of the Regions today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u23	Please, Freedoms faction, National MP Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u24	Please pass the word to Yuri Mikhalchin.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u25	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! We have just witnessed how the walls of the Ukrainian Parliament speak openly in a collaborative position. In a situation where fundamental norms of international law are now being violated, when we are witnessing how the world is being oppressed by aggression in the Crimea at the threshold of World War III, we need to mention the situation in which the United Nations was formed and it was being created on the ruins of another system of collective security: the League of Nations. The League of Nations then pursued the aggressors just as the world is sweeping Russia today. And today we are obliged to address an organization that is a founding member of Ukraine in order to stop the escalation of the conflict that threatens to escalate into a full-scale third world war. Then, indeed, it is appropriate not only to demand that the United Nations intervene in the situation and apply sanctions, but rather to say that aggressor countries should be excluded not only from the governing bodies of the United Nations but also from the organization itself. Remember how the USSR was once expelled from the League of Nations for aggression against Finland, as Italy was ruled out for aggression against Ethiopia. Similarly today, it is appropriate to speak of the world’s preeminent need to create a new coalition. There used to be an anti-Hitlerian coalition, and today an anti-putinian coalition is to be formed. And then today the Ukrainian Parliament has no right to stay away from this issue, and we need to put the problem as radically as possible. The United Nations should mention that it is one of the founders of the collective security system in the world and ignore the violation of Ukrainian sovereignty today, which is to close our eyes on the end of World War III. There is no right today for the world to fear a nuclear power, just as Hitler’s Germany was once feared before the Munich Conference, as it was feared by the Stalinic Soviet Union in 1939. And then it was too late to be afraid, because the concentration camps blew up, millions of people found themselves behind the barbed wire of the gulag, and today they want to put us in the same situation. If we don't want to allow a repetition of what happened in 1941.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u26	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u27	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u28	The word is given to the national deputy Martinyuk, the Communist Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u29	Martinyuk, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. Dear voters! A few theses. First. The most important one. On behalf of our faction, on behalf of the Communist Party, I now state on a number of occasions that both the Party and its faction in the Supreme Council stand for the territorial integrity of the Ukrainian State and the inviolability of its borders. Thesis two. We support the intentions and calls of our colleagues in parliament, which call for a better life in society, for stability and peace. But unfortunately, dear colleagues, these are just your good words. Sadly, there is no practical action in these words. No political power or political power so far assumes responsibility for what is being created in the street for what is being created in society. So far, no one can answer what political forces continue to be in the headquarters of the central party committee, which has been destroyed, in party committees' premises on the ground. No one wants to take responsibility. The question is, are they terrorists or aliens? or who? All promise that this will be released, but to this day this, sadly, remains only promises and only words. So, unfortunately, there is no other way in the faction than by our conduct in the Supreme Council, namely, by not voting for the bills, although most of them are willing to support and give their votes until a parliamentary resolution is implemented. The European Parliament on the move*** and the persecution of the dissidents in Ukraine, our faction, unfortunately, will not take part in the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u30	The word is given to the national deputy of Kinah Anatoly Kirilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u31	Dear National Deputies! The Economic Development Union supports the need for the Supreme Council of Ukraine to address the United Nations. We believe that it is more important than ever to unite around our determined efforts to protect Ukraine’s territorial integrity. The efforts of the entire world society, including powerful organizations such as the United Nations. It is essential that our statement be adopted before the United Nations Security Council meeting, the United Nations Assembly will consider the relevant resolutions, where it is clearly planned to formulate support and for the United Nations, for the security of the United Nations, for the territorial integrity and sovereignty of Ukraine. And condemning the world's complicity with the aggressive actions of the Russian Federation in relation to Ukraine. The other one. It is equally essential that our political and diplomatic efforts to protect Ukraine’s national interests be united and that we do our own, Ukrainian homework. And the question of restoring the effective functioning of public authorities, especially security sectors, restoring effective law enforcement activities, based on the rule of law, equality of all before the law, is of the utmost importance, and this is also a very important factor in the consolidation of the Ukrainian people to protect our national interests. In the Supreme Council, we offer as many votes as possible to support the UN's appeal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u32	Dear colleagues, in one minute, let's give it to the non-factional. National deputy Lazko and Rudzkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u33	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear citizens of Ukraine! Those in the Ukrainian Parliament who are calling for a wait for decisions to be taken to protect Ukraine, its territorial integrity, sovereignty, independence, I'll tell you that these are either enemy agents or people who absolutely don't understand what's going on in Ukraine. A portion of the Ukrainian territory is already occupied! If we wait with you, all Ukraine will be taken. That's why we don't have a chance to wait. We must make all the necessary decisions immediately in order to save the country in order for Crimea to remain Ukrainian in order to stabilize the situation in the east of Ukraine. I call on the people's deputies, all of them, to vote for the decision. Those who do not vote, Alexander Valentinovich, publish the lists, let the whole country know who is thinking about what — their own pocket or the fate of the country. If Parliament is unable to protect the country, such a parliament is not needed by Ukraine. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u34	National MP Rudzkowski, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u35	Dear National Deputies, I appeal to all to support this decree, to the United Nations. But I think, Alexander Valentine's Day, dear colleagues, we need to move from statements to action. I believe that the Supreme Council should appoint a vice-premier to ensure the organisation of the entire defence of Ukraine's state integrity. Consider the position of candidate for Grycenk or Kuzmuk, people who have confidence, who are professionals and who led the ministry and know that the Armed Forces can. I don't share the idea that the Ministry of Defense should come out of the amount of money that's been allocated. The Ministry of Defence has to come out of territorial integrity. The need for mobilization is to mobilize. If the Russians introduced 20,000, they would enter 40,000 into Crimea. There will be no war! And this will be the basis for politicians to negotiate with Russia. No state will lead.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u36	Finish up, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u37	No state will negotiate with you, no power if you are unable to defend yourself! No one will help, nor will the United Nations, anyone! And that's why I think we have to do everything we can to provide a basis for political negotiations. And the last. Please do this, give the order, Alexander Valentinovich, release the office of the Communist Party so that this faction will take part in the vote. Their voices are needed to make consolidated decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u38	Dear colleagues, I will comment on this. We have the Deputy Prime Minister, the First Even Deputy Prime Minister, General Jarem, who coordinates the activities of the force bloc in the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. That's the first one. The other one. Dear colleagues, I ask you to take your seats and prepare for the vote now. He asks the head of the National Security Committee Vladimir Mikhailovich Litwin, a small editorial review. Please. Turn on Lithuania's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u39	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! The committee proposes to amend and present the text of the statement in such an edition. "Despite the restraint and reasonableness of the actions of the authorities of Ukraine and its Armed Forces (with the capital letters "arms" and "forces" to be recorded), all efforts to resolve the conflict peacefully, the situation in the territory of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea has deteriorated sharply as a result of the activation of activities by the Armed Forces and the Black Sea fleet of the Russian Federation. In fact, it is an unprovoked act of aggression against Ukraine by the Russian Federation and its attempts to annex part of the territory of the sovereign state. Ukraine, as a founding State of the United Nations, based on article 1, paragraph 1, paragraph 3, 4 of the UN Statute, urges the United Nations, in accordance with article 11, paragraph 2, to consider immediately the situation in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea in relation to Ukraine in violation of the fundamental principles of international law enshrined in the Charter of the United Nations. The Supreme Council of Ukraine states that, according to the UN status recognized, article 51 of the right to self-defence, Ukraine reserves the right to appeal to States and regional systems of collective security by means of the restoration of its sovereignty, territorial integrity and inviolability."
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u40	Dear colleagues, I think that the correct amendments apply exactly so that we can do everything for the peaceful settlement of this conflict. So, dear colleagues, I ask you to take your seats and prepare for the vote. Please determine by vote on Project No. 4418 the appeal of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the United Nations. Please support the vote. Please vote. [[10:38:05]] For the 250. Decision taken. Thank you. The factions, please. Region Party 2, Fatherland 73, Vitalia Klicka Party 35, Sovereign European Ukraine 33, Economic Development 31, Freedom Company 35, Company 0, non-fractional 41. Dear colleagues, we have a very tight schedule. At the same time, we must make very responsible decisions so that the government can ensure that they are implemented. At the same time, two factions came to me right now -- the Party of Regions and the Communist Party, they're asking for a break. I'm talking to Alexander Sergiyovich, just a statement, without a break? Please allow us to make a statement from these two factions. Alexander Sergiyovich, will you make a statement? National Deputy Herman, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u41	Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! It is clear to everyone today that there are no people in this room who want Ukraine to break apart so that the eastern and southern regions fall away from Ukraine. In order not to continue this process, we must ourselves give no reason for the East and the South to fear Ukraine and seek protection, not in Ukraine, but outside. To that end, we must at least return to his greatness of law. I'll just give you a little example. One of the deputies of our faction, Murayev, registered a bill. This bill did not appeal to anyone there and threatened to physically destroy it so that he could take his bill back. If we act like this, if there are people unknown to the Supreme Council of Deputies in single-rooms who will pass through the machine, it will give reasons not only for decisions that the opposition can make, but for any decisions that this room can make, it will be considered illegal. We give ourselves reason to say that we are not acting by law, but we are acting under the pressure of some political repression. And there's nothing to be offended about if they start talking about political repression. Third. We need to understand that if we are building a legal state, we cannot start building it by breaking the law. Those deputies who went to the government had to give mandates and work either in government or in parliament. And then we can talk about that we don't really twist and rotate, but we start building a state of law in which people will trust this power. We should also finally answer the question: Who shot people during Maidan? We have to answer the question: who poisoned Yushchenk, where the kushmow koluchs, who killed Guy Gongadze? If you don't answer these questions as a new authority, it was a scenario, so it's impossible to trust all this. And the lack of answers to these questions is "roster" in Ukraine. The faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u42	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u43	The faction of the Party of the Regions, unfortunately, cannot support even the good drafts that are being considered here, until we return, the country will not return to the legal field and until the normal conditions for people's lives and for the work of deputies are created. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u44	Dear colleagues, we have with you the need to make another decision that needs to be included in the agenda. That request was made by the government. This is the Supreme Council's decree to confirm Ukraine's course of integration into the European Union and the priority measures in this direction. You know that the European Union is fully now supporting the integration process into our country's Europe. The door is open, they are preparing to help our country in this regard. And the government is asking the Supreme Council to take a decision that will clearly determine our path to Europe and the priorities of action on this path. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft decree is given to you. Can we put him in the agenda? Please include the "Council" system and vote for inclusion in the agenda of the "Decision 4419", which I have announced. Please vote. [[10:43:54]] For 243 Decision taken. Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, is it necessary to announce the text given to all? None. I ask, Your Honor, to support a very important decision of the Supreme Council to confirm Ukraine's integration into the European Union and the first-ever action in this direction. Please, Your Honor, vote in favour of Decree 4419. Please vote, turn on the "Race" system. [[10:44:33]] For 252 Decision taken. Congratulations, dear friends! Do you remember the demand that people made for Midan? Do you remember where these massive oppositions began? And we gave the answer, the Supreme Council answered that question -- the course on Ukraine's European integration is completely restored, with which I welcome not only the national MPs, but primarily the entire Ukrainian people. Dear colleagues! The next, no less important question, relates to the election of judges of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, just as I make an announcement, the committee will continue to meet. Honorary colleagues, in accordance with article 85 and 148 of the Constitution of Ukraine, are assigned a third of the composition of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. In accordance with article 208, part 2, of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, part 2, of the Ukrainian Constitutional Court Act "On the Constitutional Court of Ukraine", I made a proposal for the appointment of judges of the Constitutional Court: Melnik Mikola Ivanovich, Slidenko Igor Dmitrovič, Stretovich Vladimir Mikolaiovich, Shevchuk Stanislav Volodymyrovich and Sasa Sergija Volodymyrovich. These are very professional lawyers who have great experience working in this particular direction, the most important direction to protect our country's Constitution. And, honourable colleagues, the Rules of the Supreme Council provide for the discussion of candidates for the posts of judges of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. Let's say two minutes from the faction is enough for the performances? That's enough. I'm asking you to sign us up. Now. After the discussion I will certainly give the ladies and head of the Counting Commission the opportunity to speak on the organization of the vote. And now I would like, my fellow Members, to allow the factions and the MPs to discuss this issue. Please sign up from factions to discuss the matter. I'd like to turn on the "Ray" system. As long as the recording goes on, I, my distinguished colleagues, will certainly give the floor to the committee. And I would like once again to thank the Supreme Council for accepting the statement concerning the United Nations. This is very important because today, in New York at the United Nations meeting, the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Arseny Petrovich Yatsenuk, will speak and the decision of the Supreme Council is very important to him. He himself will rely on our decision with you today in his speech. Ladies and gentlemen, the factions have signed up. Before we begin the discussion, I would like to give the floor to the Committee on the Rule of Law and Justice to Romanyuko Romano Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u45	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! At a meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the rule of law and justice issues on 12 and 13 March, a presentation by the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the appointment of judges of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine was considered. The committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the appointment of judges of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine: Stretovich Vladimir Mikolaiovich, Slidenko Igor Dmitrovic, Shevchuk Stanislav Volodymyrovich, Melnik Mikola Ivanovich, Sasa Sergija Volodymyrovic. All candidates meet the requirements of article 148 of the Constitution of Ukraine and article 16 of the Constitutional Court Act of Ukraine and may be appointed judges of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u46	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's hear from the factions, the MPs on this issue. Please, from the Party of the Regions, who will be speaking? My debt is written down. People's MP, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u47	Dear colleagues, hurrying with the appointment of judges because of the incomplete composition of the Constitutional Court is not a proper argument. After all, Parliament, on a legal basis, dismissed five judges, creating problems and difficulties in the work of the Constitutional Court. The public, the representatives of Maidan, the Right Sector yesterday at a meeting of the Committee on the Rule of Law and Justice were very upset that the Supreme Council had prevented the Constitutional Court from working properly at such a difficult time when it was necessary to take decisions on the criminal issue. The judges of the Constitutional Court yesterday addressed the Supreme Council and pointed out that the last acts of Parliament caused the expulsion of constitutional justice in conditions of influence over almost the entire composition of the Court and made it impossible for it to make objective, impartial decisions. This will lead to a lack of support for the social decisions of the Constitutional Court as legitimate. As an option to solve the problem and relieve the tension, the Supreme Council of Ukraine should cancel the ruling by which the judges were dismissed, allowing the composition of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine to consider immediately the issue of the Crimean referendum, taking into account the legal side of the matter. We all understand what the solution will be. The judges will then resign or be released on the basis of the laws of law in a legal way. The Civil Organization "We Together" also addressed the committee with proposals for certain candidates, which I think should also be discussed. We can only consider the data. We can't just consider giving the Head of the Supreme Council, taking all the thoughts into account. The faction of the Party of the Regions and the Communist Party are large enough. And we have the right to make proposals for candidates and they have to be discussed in this room. Parliament's quota is chosen by the judges of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, and in order for us not to have a question of trust in them in the future, they must be accepted and supported by all factions in Parliament. There are also some violations of the Rules, article 208 provides that a committee of information on the candidate should be made available to the national deputies in three days. The faction of the Party of the Regions will not take part in the vote. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u48	The word is given to the representative of the "Fatherland" faction. Who will act? Please, National Deputy Knazevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u49	Mr. Head, respectable colleagues! Throughout all the activities of the Constitutional Court as the sole body of constitutional jurisdiction in Ukraine, unfortunately, its image, its perception in society has been destroyed methodically, deliberately and, I would say, completely purposeful. Now, the level of perception and the level of confidence in the Constitutional Court at a level that we need more than one year to try to reverse this trust somehow. And we have to start with the right little steps. These steps should be to appoint, on behalf of the Supreme Council, not politicians, but people who have a high level of trust in the legal environment, in the environment of people who are professionally convinced of such a position, and what is essential: they have absolutely no political conviction, such as, unfortunately, has happened repeatedly in the Constitutional Court in the composition of other judges of the Constitutional Court. We, you know, my fellow Members, have come to the point that in recent years, out of the 18 members of the Constitutional Court in this session hall, only two or three names each MP could mention from those judges who were appointed. The vast majority of the judges were appointed by criteria that were completely unclear to us, and the main factor in their appointment was either political loyalty, or they even had to see things like, say, a place of birth or a time of work in one of the regions of Ukraine. So we still can't somehow get out of the constitutional collapse that such judges of the Constitutional Court have led to. We have to make this a historic decision today, absolutely to me, because it will be the guarantee of trying to restore the Constitutional Court as a body of one constitutional jurisdiction, and still because of its decision to renew constitutional jurisdiction.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u50	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u51	The legitimacy of the constitutional system. Without the decisions of the Constitutional Court and without the presence of those judges entrusted to Ukraine, the Constitution cannot be properly enforced. That is why this mission is historic. And our faction, in view of these circumstances, will necessarily take part in the vote and vote in favour of each candidate who has supported the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u52	Thank you. National MP Žuravsky, please, from Economic Development.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u53	Dear colleagues, the level of the Constitutional Court needs to be raised. The point is that the previous judges of the Constitutional Court were: (a) unknown, and few in the professional environment supported them. What about the candidates represented today? For example, I personally and our group know Melnik well. This is a person who worked for 10 years in the Supreme Council, worked in the Supreme Court, worked as a deputy to the head of the Central Electoral Commission; a person who has more than 250 scientific jobs; a doctor of law; a professor; a man who is balanced; no political party; and a contact. Such people should work in the Constitutional Court. Nor should Mr. Sass be represented in this hall of honor. A candidate for legal science, a man of balance, an industrious one. It's been working for over a year in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Ukraine knows people like that, so it's for people like that. We must have confidence in such people. And we think that these people need to be supported and voted in favour of these members of the Constitutional Court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u54	Thank you. Please, National MP Martinjak.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u55	Dear Mr. Head, please give the word to Bondar.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u56	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u57	Dear colleagues! Dear National Deputies! We're not just going to choose today, and we're going to elect judges of the Constitutional Court, but we're going to choose the organ that will be crucial for the development of Ukraine for the next few years. Today, the question is that we have to choose professionals who will not today serve a faction that will not serve a party that will not repeat the mistakes that have been made in the last 10 years. We've already seen how the Constitutional Court worked when it just served political parties. And in total, we had an unconstitutional change in the Constitution. In summary, we had a change in the state system of Ukraine and so forth. I'm addressing everyone in this room. Let us take a very balanced approach to the one who will continue to make the history of Ukraine. Who will make the legal history of Ukraine, who will be in the Constitutional Court. We need to make extremely balanced decisions with you. And to ensure that professionals who have their own opinion are brought to the Constitutional Court are completely legal within the framework of the Constitution of Ukraine. What will stand for the sovereignty of Ukraine, which will uphold the right of citizens to free choice of life, the right of citizens to develop business, to develop a state, to a European course of state. Which does not change their position depending on how the faction or party position changes. So please, I'm asking all faction leaders to run for office in the Constitutional Court so that it's a great choice. To be taken away and to ensure that people are brought to the Constitutional Court, who will be genuine professionals who will be respected by a legal society that will be respected by the State. And who will be able to keep an eye on what has changed in the country, who has become president, who has become leaders of factions in Parliament and so on. Thank you and I look forward to your support and your informed choice of adequate, modern, promising lawyers that will enable Ukraine to develop in a European direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u58	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Pankevitch, Freedom.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u59	I'd like to give the floor to Oleg Tuggniboku.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u60	Please turn on Oleg Pullibok's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u61	Oleg Tuggnibok, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Respectable Society! In general, such an organ as the Constitutional Court should not exist in the judicial system of Ukraine. Such an organ should be abolished. The mandate to interpret legislation, the interpretation of the Constitution should belong to the Supreme Court. In general, the All-Ukrainian Union of Freedom believes that the judicial reform that the Ukrainian community really needs should begin with the fact that judges of local courts have to choose. They were to elect judges of the Court of Appeal among themselves. And the assembly of judges of Ukraine would have to elect the head and members of the Supreme Court. Thus this Supreme Court ideal would have the authority that the Constitutional Court of Ukraine has today. In general, the Constitutional Court of Ukraine not only dissipates itself in the legal field of the Ukrainian State but also compromises itself during the administration of the Yanukovic regime. You remember how many scandals there were and how many misunderstandings there were regarding the return to the Constitution in 2004. It was this very Constitutional Court that brought upon itself a huge stain when it legitimized the actions of the Yanukovic regime after the change of the Constitution of Ukraine. But now we must act and act quickly, clearly and quickly in the legal field in which we now live. Since there is a Constitutional Court now, it must work. All sabotage, which today may be from members of the Constitutional Court, must be punished. And people need to know who is sabotaging the most vicious issues for Ukrainian society and the Ukrainian state today. We need now, at the time, the Constitutional Court is fully staffed. That is why we must vote in favour of all five candidates proposed by Parliament's quota, and the Constitutional Court must now work and give decisions that will allow Parliament to adopt the issue of acquittal. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u62	Thank you. The strike faction, National Deputy Ishchenko. National deputy Karpuntsov, please speak from the strike faction. You can do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u63	Respectable citizens of Ukraine, respected colleagues! Unfortunately, in recent years the Constitutional Court has lost its authority, and we can say that. I'll just give you one example. In all these times, no open public session of the Constitutional Court was held. And that was logical, because the composition from which the Constitutional Court was formed was unfortunately not professional. And, of course, in the Constitutional Court, 8 are required to be professors, there must be legal recognized authority in the professional community itself. Regrettably, it was not only the Constitutional Court that discredited the entire judicial system was carried out with loving authority. And of course, agents of influence were created, agents of influence were not Ukrainian, unfortunately, who were not professional, but instead did the blind will of the tyrant. And today, huge pressure is also exerted by these agents to ensure that some candidates are not elected to the Constitutional Court. Once again, to this responsible step, I remember, as a student, the decision of the 1998 Constitutional Court when each paragraph could be taken and sewn into the future of scientific research. Regrettably, the last decisions of the Constitutional Court were purely the blind will of the tyrant, which led only to divisions in society. I ask you to accept your commitment, to recognize the responsibility that lies before the State and, nevertheless, to appoint more loyal, principled, professional candidates to serve as judges of the Constitutional Court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u64	Thank you. Honourable National Deputies, in accordance with article 208 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules and article 7 of the Ukrainian Constitutional Court Act, the Supreme Council appoints the judges of the Constitutional Court by secret ballot. The day before, there was a meeting of the Counting Commission, and I'm informing you that the head of the Counting Commission was elected National Deputy Zubka Hennady Grigorovich and now I'm asking you to give him my word.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u65	Honorary colleagues, the presiding officer, must hold the first meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Counting Commission for the holding of secret ballots on behalf of the members of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. Members of the Counting Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine are requested to meet in five minutes on the third floor of Cabinet No. 5 to discuss and prepare for the organization of secret balloting. I remind you of the membership of the Counting Commission: Zubko, Kanovec, Gordijenko, Helevej, Hinka, Demidko, Zarubinsky, Zubčevsky, Kalužny, Kugel, Kuprejčik, Convict, Olijnik, Pavlovsky, Pinchuk, Skubashewski, Stoyan, Suchy, Chechtov and Chugunnikov. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u66	Dear colleagues, I'd like to consult you. We have a very busy and responsible daily routine. As long as the Counting Commission is holding a meeting, we can begin consideration of the next question. And as soon as the Counting Commission is ready, we'll give the word to the head of the Counting Commission. No objection, dear colleagues? I won't. I thank you so much for that. Dear colleagues, we are now moving on to the most important issue of our country’s defenses. And the question is to get the whole country back to the law as soon as possible. This is a matter of protecting every individual citizen of our Ukraine. And I want you and I to start considering the issue first, let's go to the National Guard, but we do have a few laws that need to be included in the agenda. Dear colleagues, I beg of you, national deputies, let us sit down for our jobs. I'd like everyone to sit down. And we have a few laws before we consider the National Guard, which should be included in the agenda of our session. Which will not be considered today, but the committees will be able to prepare for the next meeting. This is a very important law, which is related, by the way, to the topic that we are now discussing with the Constitutional Court, which is the question of restoring confidence in Ukraine's judicial system. We had another law for a few days, and now the national MPs have prepared several laws on this subject. In this regard, we have the law: 4378 (government), 4378-1 and 4378-2 (national deputies Oleg Tajnibok and Angela Labunski).
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u67	Is everyone coming? What's the law number? And three, and four. I get it, times 4, so 3 is. Yes or no? Then, honourable colleagues, all the questions and all the laws that are presented by the national deputies on this matter, are an offer to include in the order of the day of our session. Do you understand the offer? And three, and four. I repeat: 4378, 4378-1, 4378-2, 4378-3 and 4378-4. No objections? I won't. I ask, Your Honor, to vote on the inclusion of these draft legislative acts in the agenda of the session. Please vote. [[11:07:03]] For 232 Decision taken. I ask the distinguished national deputies not to run in the hall, but to sit in their seats and work very carefully, and to be inspired. Dear colleagues, we are moving on to the most important issue of today's agenda: this is the draft Ukrainian National Guard Act. We have two bills. And as the author of the first bill, I ask you to listen to a very short report and then, when the secretariat does, see some videos. Dear National Deputies! The Ukrainian National Guard (No. 4393) Bill proposes to establish a separate military formation with law enforcement functions based on the internal forces of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine and to determine its legal status, organization, structure, functions and authority. In addition to the law enforcement functions that take over the new military formation as an inheritance from Ukraine’s internal forces, a number of other functions are proposed for the National Guard. In particular, in cooperation with law enforcement authorities, they will participate in State security and the protection of the state border, in the cessation of terrorist activities, as well as in the destruction of illegal military and armed formations, terrorist organizations, organized groups, and criminal organizations. In addition, the National Guard is faced with tasks that are essentially military formations. In collaboration with the Armed Forces of Ukraine, they will participate in the fight against Ukraine and the elimination of armed conflict, military action, and territorial defence. Based on the experience of developing similar formations in other countries of the world, the creation of the National Guard is possible both in terms of organizational activity and in terms of the appropriateness of such a decision to constitutional and legal regulations and the current situation in Ukraine. In addition, the Ukrainian Interior Ministry Act was adopted in 1992 last century. This time is obsolete and does not correspond to the Constitution of Ukraine and the experience of the practical application of the internal forces of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine. The National Guard of Ukraine will operate in the Ministry of Internal Affairs system. Thus, this formation is inextricably linked to the system of State law enforcement. The uniqueness of the National Guard of Ukraine at the same time will be that it will carry out service-fighting tasks in the interests of citizens, society and the state in peace-time conditions, in exceptional situations, as well as contribute to the protection of Ukraine's defence, the protection of its sovereignty and territorial integrity, the security of border space, state independence and national interests in the event of armed aggression, armed conflict, or the threat of an attack by direct hostilities. In times of peace and emergency, the designated body is assigned primarily to perform law enforcement functions in the interior of the State, as evidenced by the tasks assigned to it, duties, and the rights of the individual. Under the Treaty on the Common Armed Forces in Europe and the related treaties, the National Guard of Ukraine must be seen as a formation designed and structured to carry out the functions of internal security in peacetime. Given the specificity and importance of the tasks and functions performed by the National Guard of Ukraine, the bill proposes to impose certain restrictions on admission to the National Guard of Ukraine. Yes, one cannot be admitted to the National Guard of Ukraine who has an unliquidated or unpunished trial for committing a crime other than a rehabilitated person, or a person who has been subjected to administrative harassment for the last time to commit a corruption offence. The issues of legal status, social and legal protection, the special composition of the National Guard of Ukraine and their families are defined with regard to the conduct of military service, as well as the specifics of the special composition of the National Military Guard. As this law enters into force, the Ukrainian Act on the Interior of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine is no longer valid, and it also determines the legal status of the relevant structural components of the National Guard in relation to the relevant military administrations, military units and departments, higher educational institutions, military units, organs and units of the internal forces of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine is tasked with preparing appropriate changes to existing legislation and taking the necessary measures to reform the internal forces of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine and the creation of the National Guard of Ukraine. Dear colleagues! Please accept draft Law No. 4393 as a basis and generally because the situation in Ukraine requires decisive action. I, my honourable colleagues, am addressing each of you now to discuss this issue and to make a responsible decision. Thank you. And I would like to ask, I have time for a report, and I will be able to make a statement to the other author of the law, necessarily. And now I'm asking the secretary, do we have the opportunity to show video material? Please turn it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u68	Dear colleagues, given that there is no time, I understand that all MPs understand what the National Guard will do, let's move on to our next job, because I'm looking at a time limit that's very limited. Dear colleagues, apart from the bill (4393-1), there is also a bill registered (4393-1) and I give the floor to the author of this project, the national deputy of Orotyuk Jury Mikolaiovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u69	Glory to Ukraine! Yuri Orotyuk, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. I would ask you not to consider my bill as an alternative. We just didn't know that another bill was being drafted, and in the framework of a committee with the participation of former National Guard employees, we were working on a parallel bill on the National Guard, which can actually be associated with the bill introduced by Alexander Turkinov. But there are things I'd like to notice. Everyone remembers that the National Guard of Ukraine was the first military formation to protect our Fatherland in 1991. These were the armies that used the support of the entire population, the armies that had a high fighting spirit, patriotic feelings. In 2000, unfortunately, the National Guard in Ukraine was eliminated and its functions transferred to internal forces. Today, in view of the fact that internal armies have not the best social reputation, not the highest spirit of patriotic sentiment, there is a need to restore the National Guard. Unlike the internal forces used to protect the regime from its own people quite often, the main task of the National Guard, and this clearly has to be laid down in both bills, must be to protect the constitutional order, the integrity of the territories from trying to change them violently. Obviously there is a problem that today, when the National Guard is formed on the basis of the Internal Guard, there is a problem that in time we separate the convoy from the National Guard, because the National Guard cannot transport prisoners, protect prisons, it is not a function of the National Guard. It is clear that we should also pay attention to what the National Guard should, the commander of the National Guard, be appointed for the submission of the President of Ukraine, but to be appointed by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We have seen that, unfortunately, the internal forces did not implement the Constitution of Ukraine, not the laws of Ukraine, did not protect constitutional order and territorial integrity, but protected the regime of Yanukovic. It is therefore very important that, today, when we return to the parliamentary and presidential forms of government, Parliament has the right to appoint, once again, for the submission of the President of Ukraine as commander of the National Guard. There is another difference in our laws that I think we should consider. In my draft law, the National Guard is being removed from the internal forces and directly subordinated to the President of Ukraine. Alexander Turchinov's bill is currently being held by the National Guard in line with the internal forces. I believe that, with my proposals taken into account and with the mandatory withdrawal of the previous bill of the National Guard, because we will form it out of the need for our troops to come out, taking these moments into account the philosophy that the National Guard, its main task is to protect them from external assaults and not to protect the regime from their own people, we can adopt this bill. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u70	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the word is given to the Head of the Committee for the Legislative Protection of the Law Enforcement Activities of Kozemjakin Andrija Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u71	Dear Alexander Valentinovich! Dear National Deputies! Your opinion is on the draft Ukrainian National Guard Act (No. 4393), introduced by the national deputy of Ukraine Turkin's Alexander Valentinovich, and the alternative bill on the National Guard, which our colleague, Orotyuk, has just presented. I would like to point out right now that both bills deserve due attention, because their common feature is that it is proposed to create a new state body, the National Guard of Ukraine. The main difference between these projects is that Bill 4393 is proposed to be created in the Ukrainian Ministry of Interior system, and Bill 4393 proposes to create a National Guard as a separate state special purpose body. But yesterday on the committee, when we were looking at these two bills, we decided the following. In fact, today it is. when the threat to Ukraine's territorial integrity, threats to its national sovereignty, provocation of the force scenario and destabilization of the situation in the country has led to the need for the internal forces of the Ministry of Internal Affairs to create a European model of military formation with law enforcement functions, the committee supports the initiative taken by Alexander Valentinovich Turchinov and draft 4393, and proposes to consider it in the first reading, taking into account the proposals just made by the author of the second alternative bill (No4393-1), the national deputy of Sirotyuk, as well. Alexander Valentinovich, it's very important there, it's in the first. I have just been asked by the Secretary of the Security and Defence Council, Mr. Parpuy, to make a proposal on article 2 in the course of the report. Article 2 first paragraph (and first sub-paragraph) "Basic functions of the National Guard in Peacetime." Instead of "participation in protection," replace "protection of public order, protection and protection of life and health, rights and freedoms and the legitimate interests of citizens". Dear colleagues, once again, I would like to confirm that the results of the vote have led the committee to decide: to recommend to the Supreme Council the adoption of Bill 4393 as a basis. And I think I support the proposal of the Orphan People's Deputy to adopt the bill, to take into account the comments that were just made during his speech. And to adopt Bill 4393 as a basis and as a whole. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u72	Thank you. The report is chaired by the National Security and Defence Committee subcommittee Kuzmuk Alexander Ivanovich. Please, Alexander Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u73	Dear Head! Dear colleagues! The Committee on Defence and Security considered two bills yesterday. They differ as well as in the presentation plan. Dear Alexander Valentinovich! As the author of the bill, we've been waiting for you to present to understand the idea, the goals and the objectives. As Yuri Mikolaiovich Orotyuk did. And today you report your bill from the chair of the Supreme Council, not from the rostrum. I ask you not to break away from Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u74	I certainly consider your offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u75	As far as the bill is concerned. We confirm that this is an urgent need to adopt such a bill. And the committee unanimously supported the adoption as a whole, but with the comments made by both the Legal Authority and the members of the committee. I would like to thank Yuri Mikolaiovich Orotyuk. His bill has been rewritten. And it's promising. But today we can't take the guards off, we're tight in time. Because we have a big threat. And this needs to be done immediately, to be taken away from the Ministry of Internal Affairs. The addition is essential. Attention! The commander of the National Guard is approved by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The number of National Guards is not determined by the Ministry of Internal Affairs but is determined by a separate law of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So our committee is proposing the adoption of the law of the Turkinov People's Deputies as a whole with the editorial remarks that we have made. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u76	Thank you, Alexander Ivanovich, especially for constructive criticism. I totally accept. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this issue? There's a need. Let's write down the factions to discuss this issue. Please record. Please, from Economic Development, who will be speaking? Turn on the microphone of the people’s deputy Zuravsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u77	Dear colleagues, since the adoption of the Constitution of Ukraine in 1996, there has been a pressing issue of reforming the entire system of law enforcement agencies, including the internal forces of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine. Sadly, this did not happen. Therefore, Bill 4393 (author-institute of Turkey) is in line with this task. The bill defines the legal status of the National Guard, adequate material security and social protection of military personnel. The bill establishes the main functions of the National Guard both in peacetime and in the case of the introduction of a state of emergency in Ukraine as a whole or in separate regions. The main objective of the National Guard is to protect the constitutional rights and freedoms of Ukrainian citizens from attacks by criminal groups. We ask for your support. But I would like to remind you of some things. That if you take a professional component, the Orphan's Bill, Yuri Mikolaiovich, is better and more promising, but since the adoption of the Constitution, the new Constitution of Ukraine. While the Constitution of Ukraine was in force in 2004, it was worth supporting the law of Alexandra Valentinović Turkinova. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u78	The word is given to the people’s representative Jeremiah. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u79	Dear Head, please pass the word to Anatoly Grizzenko to the People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u80	Dear colleagues! First. I'm asking you to support this project. The other one. Alexander Valentine's Day, I address you now as High Commander of the Armed Forces. If we accept this project in the way it's written down, and we don't make one major amendment that I'm proposing, then the National Guard, if it were now, would in no way be able to do its job and help defend the country and counter aggression. That's the point. In that project, which is now being proposed for adoption as a whole, I propose a single amendment: to remove the text where there are restrictions on the use of the National Guard, which is based only on the introduction of martial law. Because at a time of peace, as now, without a state of war, when we have to protect our country by forces created by the National Guard, it will have no legal basis now and strengthen the border, and give away. So I propose that you accept an editorial order that is very important: to remove restrictions on the use of the National Guard's forces and resources only in the context of the introduction of a state of war, to remove this restriction, because then there will be military forces, resources, everything ready, and the teams will not be given up, because that will be contrary to this law. Please take this very seriously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u81	Thank you for your important observation. Dear colleagues, the word is given to Mikola Volodymyrovich Tomenko, "The Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u82	Alexander Valentine's Day, please pass on the word to Andrija Parbia, who will clearly lead to our common position.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u83	Please, the People's Deputies of Paris.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u84	Good afternoon. A boy named Andrew. I'd like to go to all the MPs about this law because there's a lot of warnings and there's a lot of obvious ideas that aren't implemented. Indeed, in order for us to be able to draft the law and bring about deep reform, it takes time for working groups to do so. Sadly, though, the challenges facing Ukraine today need swift and adequate solutions. And today the adoption of such a law and the creation of the National Guard are essential so that we can fully ensure the security and defence of our nation on a very difficult day. Regrettably, these powers and functions, which have internal forces, are not enough to complete the tasks facing Ukraine in protecting its borders, critical infrastructures, and a number of other tasks. Therefore, it is vital that we adopt this law quickly today so that we can extend the authority of the National Guard, taking into account the challenges facing the Ukrainian State today. Critical periods will pass, and we will be able to reform this area more deeply. We'll be able to change and enforce the law. We're going to be able to set up working groups to finalize this law. But right now we really need to take it very quickly. And this is actually my request, not just as a deputy, but as the Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council. And today, many of our citizens expect and hope that the Supreme Council of Ukraine will be responsible, will meet the challenges facing Ukraine and will be able to vote in favour of the bill that has been tabled in the Hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u85	Thank you. The word is given to the People's Deputy Leon, the "Freedom" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u86	Please give the floor to the national deputy Yuri Orotyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u87	Please turn on Yuri the Orphan's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u88	With respect to the proposals in my bill, I will once again state that the National Guard is to be appointed from the submission of the President of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine. With these proposals in mind, I think we can adopt this law in general. Similarly, we must first have the National Guard’s obligation to say that its primary task is to protect against the external aggressor, to protect the constitutional system, and to protect the territorial integrity of the country. Today thousands, tens of thousands of Ukrainians on the streets expect to go and can, and are ready to defend the Ukrainian state. Perhaps they would never go into the internal forces, there are problems with the Armed Forces, but I am convinced that today, tens of thousands of Ukrainians who have been in a state of dignity revolution have shown that our nation can fight against the worst regimes, stand ready to go to the National Guard today and be the first echelon to defend the Ukrainian state. We must restore the glory of the National Guard, who, in the early 1990s, did not let Crimea take away from us, left Crimea as a sovereign part of the Ukrainian state. We need to revive the High Patriotic Army. With the rights we've made, by removing any restrictions on the number of Ukrainians. Because we, the Ukrainian state, must put in place every representative of hundreds of self-defence, hundreds of freedom, other forms that are already demanding of us that they want and are willing to go to defend the Ukrainian state. So with these rights taken into account, we should adopt this law as a basis and as a whole. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u89	Thank you. People's deputy to the Kurensky, impact faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u90	Please give the floor to the national deputy Chumak.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u91	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u92	Dear national deputies, dear colleagues! I want to say that I'm totally uplifting Andria Parbia's position, which says that in peacetime we could adopt a more perfect law, but today we need to take very fast, very fast steps to ensure the security and integrity of the state, so we need to support Law 4393. But let's not repeat the mistakes that were made in our old laws if we copy from the old laws right away. So I propose to take the whole of Alexander the Turkinov 4393 as a basis, but in the light of the following amendments. In Article 2, delete the first indent paragraph of Part One. It's: "Participation in public security and public order during assemblies, rallyings, campaigns, demonstrations and other mass action." We have seen how such participation in internal forces ends when they simply exceed their authority and act, not as enforcers of the law, but as enforcers of orders, criminal orders from commanders and superiors. Another question. The fourth part of the same paragraph is: "The National Guard carries out its tasks of interacting with central authorities and local executive authorities, local self-government, prosecutors, internal affairs authorities, government authorities" and so on. It doesn't regulate anything -- again, it's an empty item that we just write down to increase the text of the document. I also suggest that it be removed as such, which is totally unnecessary in the law itself. Article 4 of the "Legal Principles of National Guard Activity" states the phrase "other legal and regulatory acts." Although, before that, there is an exclusive list of legislation that regulates the activities of the National Guard. I also propose that we eliminate conflicts of interest and activity and regulation. And the last two revisions. I ask you to delete from this article the title "General structure and numbers" of the National Guard's higher education institutions. Why should we create additional higher education institutions? Do we have that much money? Let us talk about whether these officials, or military officials, can learn.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u93	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u94	In civilian colleges, in the Department of the Armed Forces. And this is going to be another step towards government funding. And another is the amendment in the same article. It's to exclude the words "special task force division." We have given birth to so many special forces that we cannot now cope with who and what they are doing and how they are doing in these special assignments. I don't think we need to keep the Omega internal forces, which will somehow be transformed into the National Guard, if we focus on the task of protecting ourselves from external aggression. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u95	Dear colleagues, all who have spoken, support the need to create the National Guard immediately in Ukraine, so we must adopt the law. I would like to draw your attention to the principles of the positions that have been addressed by the author of the alternative law, Yuri Mikolaiovich Orotyuk. And I'd like us to make decisions on how to take them into account. In particular, considering the importance of the National Guard and the tasks placed on it by that head. The commander or head of the National Guard is appointed by the Supreme Council for the appointment of the President. Is this position accepted, fellow believers? Roger that. I understand that with this proposal, most people are willing to fully support the bill. As far as editorial rights are concerned, I think it's very important that Anatolia Stepanovich Grizzenka's amendment is not to restrict the possibility of applying the National Guard under conditions that have arisen in Ukraine, because sometimes, in the form of, let's say, peaceful protesting is simply about taking over the territory of our country. And we need to act quickly, effectively and within the legal field, which is very important. As for the axles that Mr. Chumak was talking about. Dear colleagues, in mass action, it's an important question, but at the same time there are mass measures that create danger for citizens, you understand what I'm talking about, they're also called mass action. And let's add, if they pose a threat to life, to the health of citizens, then the National Guard is used. That's why. In numbers, it's a very important question. Dear colleagues! There's a proposal where we're talking about quantity, we're going to write "up to 60,000," because "up to" doesn't mean there's got to be 60,000. But when it comes to increasing numbers, it is up to the Supreme Council to decide. Is there no objection to that formulation? As for others, I apologize, calmly. With regard to other rights. There's a proposal for us to vote on the basis and in general, and we'll assign a committee of profile together with the Legal Department to carry out a technical and legal revision of the law. Because there were colleagues speaking out of the microphone so that it could still be clearly incorporated into both the constitutional forms and the requirements of the law. This is a normal practice that exists in our Supreme Council. Dear colleagues! I'm talking to you again, we need to make decisions when we can with you, I don't rule out that there might be mistakes in the law. We'd better make some changes to the law, but right now we need to start mobilizing to the National Guard. And I'm asking you to pass the law. Can I put it to a vote? People's MP Pinzenik.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u96	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! I'm asking you very much to remove from the Law article 24, it's called "The Ukrainian National Guard's Economic Activity", a mandatory condition for the Ukrainian National Guard's business activity. One of the reasons we're in trouble in the army is that our army is doing business, doing business, because unfortunately our politicians are going there to do business. Unfortunately, they're still here in our room. Army and military formations have no right to do business or business. Therefore, I ask you to uphold the law by deleting this article. It doesn't change the problem they want to solve in the law, it solves.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u97	Dear colleagues, I think we will support this proposal by Viktor Mikhailovich. At the same time, there was a proposal for scientific institutions. I've informed you that new scientific institutions, including higher institutions, are not being created. It's just that there's a Ministry of Internal Affairs, there's an internal military science facility. They're just going to be reformatted as needed by the National Guard. That's understandable. There are no new scientific institutions. Please, People's Chamberlain, and we'll vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u98	Good Health! I support the idea of creating the National Guard in every way and consider it important and urgent. However, adopting a bill is simply a "colleague" – inadequate policy. I think if we have time Tuesday to spend the south on renaming villages, we have to find time to read. [[B in m in s a l in]] Even if we understand that we have to make an urgent decision now, I ask you to pay attention to two amendments. First of all, the National Guard is not the body that is supposed to be involved in the protection of peace, it is the responsibility of an adequate municipal police. Amendment number two, I ask you to accept in this edition, article 18 paragraph 6 states for now, if it were real during Maidan, we'd all be "load 200" long ago. So I'm asking for the next line: for recovery. That is, the possibility of Nazgardia using firearms. Next. I ask you to accept the following wording: to restore the rule of law for members of mass unrest who use weapons against citizens or the special composition of the National Guard of Ukraine and the law enforcement authorities, if any.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u99	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u100	If such actions are justified, they pose a threat to their lives. Please have the law adopted in this edition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u101	Dear colleagues, I think we can take this amendment into account. I'm paying attention once again that we're going to be doing a technical legal editing, and at the same time, I'm paying attention to the amendment, and Anatoly Grizzenko came along, and we need to take into account the proposals made by the head of the profiling committee, plus the revision of Victor Mikhailovich Pinzenika -- and we also have to take it into account. Dear colleagues, there is an offer. I'm asking you to sit in your workplace, now is a very responsible moment. I ask the deputies to support the adoption of the Ukrainian National Guard Act (number 4393), with the amendments that we have discussed with you and with the further technical and legal editing of the Professional Committee and the Legal Service, to adopt the law as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[11:44:42]] For 262 Decision taken. [[Applause]] I welcome the people of Ukraine to create the National Guard of Ukraine! Please use fractions: The Party of Regions is 1, Fatherland is 76, Vitalia Klicka is 37, Sovereign European Ukraine is 35, Economic Development is 34, Freedom is 35, Company is 0, non-fractional is 44. I thank all the patriots who have supported this law and are ready to protect Ukraine. Dear colleagues, I ask you to give the floor now to the head of the Counting Commission to the National Deputy Zubko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u102	Dear colleagues, there has been a meeting of number one of the Counting Commission, composed of a protocol. I'd like you to listen very carefully to the information I'm about to read on the protocol. So there was a meeting number one, a meeting of the Counting Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Of the 20 members of the Meeting of the Counting Commission, 15 were present. The meeting of the commission is a full-fledged one. The Main Committee of the Supreme Council at its meeting approved this form of ballot for secret ballots. The ballot is made on white paper in the form of a rectangle with a black inscription. The ballot paper for secret ballots will be issued by the County Commission at the registration desks only on presentation of a national MP’s certificate. Therefore, I now ask all national deputies who do not have a licence to send their assistants for certificates so that you can present them for the newsletter. Ladies and gentlemen, may I remind you that in accordance with the third part of article 39 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules of Procedure, voting is held in a secret ballot booth by means of a ballot showing the will of the Ukrainian People's Deputy. May I have your attention, please? We have five candidates for the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. There are 5 separate rectangles here, where you can vote for exactly the candidate you support. You can vote for all five; you can vote for who you support. Only if you don't support anyone is there a separate rectangle where you can mark that you don't support any of the candidates. But if there are people you support, you put them; if people you don't support, you just leave an empty cell. The ballot will then be placed in boxes that will be installed in the second floor towers at the registration desks of Ukraine’s national deputies. The secret ballot on the appointment of members of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine includes 5 nominations: Melnik Mikola Ivanovic, Sas Sergey Volodymyrovich, Slidenko Igor Dmitrović, Stretovic Vladimir Mikolajovic and Shevčuk Stanislav Volodymyrovic. If you support the candidate, mark the box opposite his name. Tickets will take place at the registration desks from 12 to 13 o'clock. I have a very big request. Today we just have organizational moments happening very quickly, so please, virtually at 12 o'clock, the registration tables will be working. Come on, get the ballots and vote. It's up to the committee. To the voting area where we mark and where we get it. We go to the mailboxes, we don't let the media in. Where the boxes are, please, the media can be there after the MP votes, communicates and receives information. Thank you, Your Honor. Let's get to work. Without ten twelve members of the Counting Commission, please proceed to your duties at the locations where we have designated the Counting Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u103	Dear colleagues, I ask you to make a correction. Let's now adopt another law and then take a break, and the members of the Counting Commission, who also have to vote now, have to.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u104	Okay. Yes, it is. We still need to work together and be organized. So let's vote the law, take a break and then go to the vote. Dear colleagues, can we confirm the form of the ballot? [[B in m in s a l in]] We can. I ask the Supreme Council to approve by vote the form of the ballot issued by the head of the Counting Commission. Please take your seats and vote. Dear colleagues, please sit down. I'd like to turn on the "Ray" system. And protocol approval, yes. [[11:49:43]] For 232 We've approved the bulletin and the protocol. Dear colleagues! There is a proposal to consider now the law related to the decision we have just made regarding the National Guard of Ukraine. This is a draft of the Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine, including the same author, under number 4394. It's about getting the National Guard bill to work, and we need to make a decision about changing other laws that come out of the adopted National Guard Act. Can we not discuss this? [[B in m in s a l in]] We can do this without discussion. Please, Your Honor, vote to make a decision on this issue without discussion, because we have discussed in detail the National Guard Act, which is actually related laws. Please vote in favour, we will take this matter without discussion. [[11:50:46]] For 238. Decision taken. Thank you very much, dear colleagues! Now let's adopt the Act of Amendments to some of the laws of Ukraine. This has to do with the adoption of the Ukrainian National Guard Act. Project number 4394. People's deputies are asked to determine how to vote. Please be supportive. On the basis and in general. [[11:51:22]] For 238. Decision taken. Dear National Deputies! We have 10 minutes. And we have a question with you about the draft Law on the Rehabilitation of Persons Who Have Been Illegally Condemned. We've been discussing this. The committee made a positive decision. I'm talking to you, can we consider this a very important question, we have 10 minutes left, on a reduced procedure? Come on, fellows of honor. I refer to the author of the law. On the first reading, we will accept the first reading. Dear colleagues! It is about adoption in the first reading, in the first reading of this law. It's a very important law. To work it out. Sergey Volodymyrovich, 4389 draft Law on the Rehabilitation of Unlawful Persons, please inform the National Deputies very briefly.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u105	Dear friends! Sadly, in the past four years, there have been massive acts of repression in the country. In fact, the legal system of the court used the entire width of the instrument. Sadly, all of this was covered with the name of the law of men in mantiacs. And for many articles, it was economical, criminal for playing to drop tens, dozens of people. The essence of the bill that I put in place is to create a professional commission. We must understand that we should not release all prisoners in a mass way, but rather create a professional commission of former judges, public officials, and urgently approach the rehabilitation of persons who have been illegally convicted. Once again, the law does not provide for the release of tens of thousands of people there, the law provides for essentially a system of analysis and a democratic system of voting and the rehabilitation of persons who have been unlawfully condemned. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u106	Dear colleagues, can we vote on this law? I see two hands. Come on, the Zarubinsky People's Deputy in this matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u107	Dear Alexander Valentinovich, dear colleagues! There is no doubt that people who are illegally sentenced should be rehabilitated. It's an axiom, there's nothing to discuss. I only have one question. A person who is a victim of illegal justice, unfair justice, is a victim whether he became a victim in 2003, 2005, 2007, 2009 or as it is written here, since March 2010. Do you understand? We know very well that our judicial system has become flawed and has become a problem with no specific date. This is the scourge of our judicial system. But why should people suffer from it, as the Explanatory Note says, why they should be rehabilitated — because they are deprived of their will, not because of a crime, but because of falsification of evidence. Did the evidence not falsify in 2003, 2005, 2007, 2009? So I think we should have the same approach to all those who have suffered from an unjust judicial system. So I have an offer as one option, one version to remove these regulations or time limits. Then it'll be fair, or it'll be a totally wrong act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u108	I got the offer. Please, Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u109	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Ladies and gentlemen, the Ukrainian Parliament will now make an extremely important decision concerning millions of Ukrainian citizens. In 23 years, unfortunately, there's a court system in Ukraine where you can't find the truth if you don't pay the bribe if you don't have any relatives, if you don't have a hairy arm. And so, according to Zarubinsky's colleague, things haven't faked for the last five years, but all 23 years of independence have faked cases. And that's why our task today is to review forged court cases and rehabilitate those people who are sitting in jail on the basis of false decisions or some poor orphan is sitting there because he didn't give bribes to a child who doesn't have a parent, so they put 20 crimes on her and put a pack of cigarettes on him for crimes he didn't commit. So this is a very important question. And I want to look to my fellow MPs, not the rehabilitation of the victims of political repression, it's the rehabilitation of Ukrainian citizens who have suffered from judicial abuse. Because when we talk to you about the illustration of judges, about the dismissal of judges who forged court cases, we should also talk about the victims of this unjust judiciary, and about the victims of the so-called law enforcement system that catches an unfortunate job on the street, three bracelets stolen, 20 years put in jail, and the oligarchs sit in power. And so our task, my fellow countrymen, is now to make a decision, I'm asking you to make it possible for us to be able to rehabilitate millions of citizens of the Soviet Union after the Stalinic repressions, so we have to rehabilitate the illegal citizens of Ukraine. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u110	Dear colleagues, with the proposal of the Zarubinsky People's Deputies to lift the limit, can we vote? We can. I'm asking you, Your Honor, to sit on your jobs and adopt this bill on your first reading as a basis. Please. Bill 4389. [[11:58:18]] For 240 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, there is no desire to vote in general? Do you have a wish? We can, yeah? Dear colleagues, there is a proposal to vote in general. colleagues, let's try to do this. I ask you to support this project and vote. Please. [[11:58:51]] For 216 Unfortunately, the bill is largely not supported. Dear colleagues, then let's vote in favour of the reduced procedure in order to finalize this project by a shortened procedure. Please support this offer, respected colleagues, including the opposition. Please vote on the simplified procedure for drafting this bill. Please vote. [[11:59:23]] For 231 Decision taken. Please, Your Honor, there is a recess to the first hour so that we can vote with you for the judges of the Constitutional Court. I appeal to all national deputies to do so. This is very important for our country. And I'm announcing information from the national deputy of Hmel asking to count his vote for the National Guard Bill (4393) because his card didn't work strictly for technical reasons.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u111	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to take your seats. We will continue our work in Parliament. We now have questions about the preparations for the election of the President of Ukraine. And I would like to ask my colleagues, before considering in the second reading the draft Law on Amendments to the Law on Elections of the President of Ukraine, this is a very important, responsible question, I still have a lot of media appeal to them not to put pressure on them, to make decisions about ensuring the unhindered activity of the media during the pre-election period, that is, that there is no test, there is no political pressure on them, and so on. I am convinced that all political forces support this proposal. And if you don't mind, this project is included in the agenda of the day session, so that we can now consider it before the President of Ukraine Election Act. I ask the head of the committee, Tomenko Mikola Volodymyrovich, to the rostrum. Project Registration Number 4283 is a draft regulation on the provision of unhindered media activities during the pre-election period. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u112	Dear colleagues! It's actually a traditional document that the Supreme Council approves, which we bring to the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the beginning of each election campaign, so that the media don't be held hostage by the press on one side or the other. Not so much pressure, but rather abuse of our power structures, which carry out checks and various kinds of inspections. It is our recommendation for the pre-election campaign not to check the media with appropriate institutions: the National Television and Radio Board, the Tax Administration, fire, sanitation and other services that have a weakness for holidays, and on their birthday, to make a living. I already have a call from a number of national channels that, despite the fact that the top tax and fire authorities are changing, and the bottom level is going to collect money through the media. So we recommend that we are basically the entire composition of the Committee on Freedom of Word and Information, traditionally supporting our decision, which makes it impossible during the electoral period to test the media. According to the text, Alexander Valentine's Day, there's an amendment, because we've reorganized, or eliminated, the Ministry of Revenue and Assembly, and we obviously need to write "Tax Administration" there instead. And so all the structures of power are going to be mentioned there. So this is not a bill that radically changes the principles of media activity, and I think our colleagues support it. Another thesis. On the other hand, speaking of this bill, I would like to inform you that yesterday, the Committee on Freedom of Speech addressed the journalists of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea with great thanks for continuing to work during a difficult period, informing them about the situation there. We're talking about spectors or correspondents of our media who work there. To me, of course, it is a great surprise that our best journalists, who have traveled all the hot spots of Ukraine, who have highlighted the revolutions and counter revolutions, the capture of African and other states, have survived everywhere and beaten them in the Crimea. That's why I'm going to the Attorney General's Office, the Ministry of Internal Affairs: life doesn't end today. To investigate without delay all cases of beatings, detentions, or more Ukrainian journalists who carry out their professional duties. I want to say whether it's Russians or rednecks, they need to know that according to the current legislation, article 171 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code, the obstruction of journalists' activities is punishable by criminal responsibility in different cases and up to three years respectively. So I asked very much that no incident, starting with the Intera group, where Andri Zaplienko was, ending our "Ukrainian Week," our bloggers, our journalists, the print media that today in Crimea as a war, because they want to show what's really going on, and they're in such a situation that no incident passes by. On the committee yesterday, I asked the Minister of Internal Affairs and the Attorney General not to forget that we had 150 more journalists who had suffered during the protests during the Euromaidan campaign. Similarly, these matters have not been fully investigated to this day, and this is our debt to journalists who have explained what has been going on in Ukraine. And for today, there is no blame for that. Journalists, however, were not shot by accident, and they were shot on purpose, just as they are being destroyed today in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. And the last position, Alexander Volodymyrovich, is very delicate, but I have to say it. I've just analyzed the Crimean press, and I've seen that a group of our comrades, the Ukrainian National Deputies in Crimea, are campaigning for Russian military aggression for coming to the referendum. And I have a question: do these people have a moral right to be called deputies of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, or do they not have a right? I refer to the leadership of the Party of Regions, which I think has taken the right position, because I read Sergey Tihypak and others who do not support military occupation and do not support the referendum. If you do not support it, what do the deputies of the Supreme Council of Ukraine do there in support of Russian military aggression? Or they're writing a statement and they're going away from this Supreme Council, and they're going to the State Duma in Russia. Or we can open criminal cases, we can take away a parliamentary mandate, and there should be no such disgrace that an MP with a badge of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is campaigning for war against Ukraine. And I, Alexander Valentinovich, ask you to address and respond accordingly.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u113	Mikolo Volodymyrovich, I think it's very important that you comment, and we'll ask the Attorney General's Office to verify the facts that Mikola Tomenko has told us, and in the event of a crime, and when this fact is confirmed, the nature of the crime is, let's bring it to the Supreme Council for the removal of parliamentary immunity and the discovery of a criminal case. Dear colleagues, is there a need to address this issue? I won't. Can we vote? We can. I ask you to sit down and vote on the draft Decree (4283) on ensuring the unhindered activity of the media and the pre-election period 2014. Please include the "Council" system, please ask the people's deputies to vote on the basis as a whole. [[13:24:23]] For-200 The decision is not taken. I realize that the representatives of those who call themselves opposition do not want independent media to work unhindered during the 2014 election campaign. It's your right, and I think the media should look into who doesn't want them to work without hindrance. Thank you. By factions, please show me. The Party of the Regions is only 2 for, Fatherskina is 56, Klicka is 30, Sovereign European Ukraine is 26, Economic Development is 24, Freedom is 30, the Company is 0 for non-fractional, 32. I understand, your honor, that some of us on the Counting Commission are counting votes today, some of us haven't come up yet. There will be a proposal, I can vote ad hoc and come back to that question. [[B in m in s a l in]] Be right back? [[B in m in s a l in]] After the report of the Counting Commission. Dear colleagues, I am again addressing the Secretariat, because we have many more who wish to vote. I remind you that the vote is over, and I ask all the members of the people to the Supreme Council Hall, and the faction leaders, I ask you to secure the work of the Supreme Council, your esteemed colleagues. Dear colleagues, can we please move on to the Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Presidential Election Act? It's a second reading, it's a complicated process. Mr. Knazevitch, are we ready? Please come to the rostrum. Draft law amending the Ukrainian Presidential Election Act.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u114	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, Your Honor, your point is to consider in a second reading the draft Law (No. 3224-d) "On the Election of the President of Ukraine" (on the technical and legal improvement of the electoral process). Honourable National Deputies of Ukraine, at the request of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government yesterday, on March 12th, at its meeting, considered appropriate proposals that came to this bill from the authors of the legislative initiative. I must tell you that according to the authors of the legislative initiative, exclusively the national deputies of Ukraine, the representatives of the various factions who, during that period of time, had been committed, namely, made 191 proposals for the improvement of the electoral process in the elections of the President of Ukraine, for half the time to prepare the issue for the second reading. As a result of yesterday's debate on the committee and several days' work of the election and referendum subcommittee, which, in fact, has been reviewing all of these proposals throughout the day, because there was an appointment of the Supreme Council to bring this issue into the agenda today, and we could look at it. This is a second-reading bill. We were able to get to the next results of the work, by our decision, the 191 amendment committee fully counted 122, 19 was taken into account in part, 1 was taken into account in editorial detail, and the other 49 were rejected. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the committee has decided to take into account the partial amendment of the People's MP Sphenov that we should change the title of the bill to read before the second reading, since, in the course of the second reading, in addition to the text of the President's Election Act itself, it is proposed to amend a whole range of legislative acts, including the Tax Code, the Criminal Code, as well as a series of Ukrainian laws. Therefore, as a result of the committee's discussion, the bill was further proposed to refer to Ukraine's Law on Elections of the President of Ukraine and some other legislative acts on technical and legal improvements to the electoral process. I also inform you that the work on both the subcommittee and the State Building Committee lasted with a rather serious representation of all interested persons. Each author of the legislative initiative had the opportunity to participate in the work of the subcommittee and the committee, many of them volunteered and were with us all the time during the work of the subcommittee and the committee. As well as participating in this work, both recognized experts in election law were involved, as well.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u115	Please give me the opportunity to finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u116	and representatives of the Central Electoral Commission, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and all other interested ministries and authorities. As a result of the discussion, the committee unanimously decided yesterday to recommend to the Supreme Council the adoption of a bill on second reading and in general. But given that the work of the Chief Legal Authority and other branches of the Supreme Council is in parallel with this bill, I would ask you, Mr. Head, for consideration, if the bill is adopted as a whole, to entrust the committee, together with the Chief Legal Authority, to make technical and legal amendments to this bill before it is sent to the Head for signature and further appropriate referral to the President of Ukraine. Thank you. I finished the report. Ready to begin the discussion on the amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u117	Dear colleagues, let us consult. We have, you see, the amount of amendments. And, of course, when we go after each one of them, we may not even finish this important consideration today, because we need to organize. I can see the hands. I will certainly give you my word. This question is related to the normal conditions for transparent, honest, democratic elections to remove all obstacles that stand in the way of the election of our new President. In this regard, let us consult. Maybe -- there's a proposal -- those MPs who insist on their amendments, we'll give them a chance to speak later. [[B in m in s a l in]] I ask you to calm down, dear colleagues. Calm down, please. I suggest. The MPs who insist on their amendments, they raise their hand, I give them my word, and they speak. No objection, dear colleagues? Thank you for your support. Please, I'm seeing a blow with my hand up. National Deputy Carpunz, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u118	Dear Alexander Valentinovich! Dear colleagues! Dear reporter! I want to draw your attention. draw attention to article 9. I understand there's been some editorial error where. I understand you're deleting the constitutional term "dwelling in Ukraine" at all. The Constitution (art. 103) clearly states that a person who lives in Ukraine may be elected president. You're sort of removing and replacing paragraph 2 of the article: "a person is considered to live in a territory within the border." I understand that this is a description, and the amendment reads as follows: "a person is believed to live in Ukraine if his residence is registered in Ukraine in accordance with the Ukrainian Freedom of Movement Act and the Free Choice of Housing Act." This is clearly in line with article 103 of the Constitution. Otherwise. I don't understand why it was done.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u119	Please comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u120	The point is, this is a clear norm of the Law itself, "On Freedom of Movement and Free Choice of Residence." But we agreed on a committee yesterday that this would continue to sound like this: "A person is considered to live in Ukraine if his place of residence is registered under the Freedom of Movement Act and the Free Choice of Housing Act." That's why I asked us to make technical legal improvements because it was printed at night. And given that we were forced to print copies. We agreed, and Mrs. Novak, who represented this amendment on the committee, can confirm that this issue was resolved positively yesterday.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u121	Does this position count as the author?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u122	Yes, of course, it will be taken into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u123	All of it. Thank you. Dear colleagues! Who else insists on their amendments? Please raise your hand. Please, National Deputy Novak. Just please call the repair number.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u124	Dear MPs, Your Honor, Ruslan Petrovich! Amendment No. 185, where we wanted to make changes to the Ukrainian Central Election Commission Act. Our amendment sounded that way. That the Central Election Commission changes not by two thirds of the vote, but by a majority. Because the Constitution does not provide two thirds of the vote for CEC. There is a clear circle of questions that two thirds of the vote is envisaged. So please put Amendment 185 to the vote, thank you, in the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u125	No objections? Your Honor, please comment and we'll put an amendment to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u126	Dear colleagues! The committee did not support this amendment for the following reasons. The fact is that the Constitution does not provide for the dismissal of the composition of the Central Electoral Commission. This is about the possibility of releasing members of the Central Electoral Commission. The rule of law that is proposed to be removed, which has been politically accepted as consensus here. It included former opposition, and the present power. It was predicted that the Central Election Commission could not be simply a majority changed or any of it, let's say, given the majority in Parliament for the following reasons. Dear colleagues! I honestly don't have a position on this. But I think that the Central Election Commission is a special body in relation to Parliament. If you want, it's a certain employer, Parliament. And in view of these circumstances, that no one would want to immediately after the electoral process had ended, to collect certain accounts, that was then introduced. And it worked effectively. We had two thirds of Parliament's vote on the President's reasoned proposal on a timely basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u127	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u128	Members of the Central Electoral Commission are dismissed. And if there's going to be a reasoned submission by the President of Ukraine right now, I don't see any obstacles to having that amount in the room right now. Because there's no way that there's going to be a majority here in Parliament regardless of the current composition or the future, but the Central Election Commission should still be an independent body, and that's the only norm that theoretically gives it some kind of independence. If we have a claim to a commission member, we can do it with 226 votes, so we don't have to change the whole composition. Why don't we change the whole warehouse? Since the Constitution does not provide that warehouses change, it is a permanent organ, and only members of the commission change, it is impossible to change the body. So that was the position of the committee. But that's a question for the session room. If she decides to do it in a different way now, that's her right. On this point, the committee does not deny that the session is now defined as appropriate.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u129	National MP Novak insists on correction? He insists. Dear colleagues, amendment number 185. Dear colleagues, the amendment number 185 is in place, and the room is asked to determine. Please turn on the "Race" system. The confirmation is subject to an amendment. [[13:37:00]] For 135 Correction not supported. Please, Your Honor, who is still insisting on their amendments? Dear colleagues, National Deputy Carpunz, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u130	Dear Alexander Valentinovich, colleagues, reporter! A number of my amendments, for example, 39th, 109th, regarding the holding of the President's simultaneous election to the local council. There have been amendments that have harmonised and enabled the election of both the President and the elections to local self-government. In these documents, I see that these amendments are all rejected. So are we not going to hold the President's election and the election to local self-government or is there any other editorial? Can I have an explanation, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u131	I don't know what's rejected here. But all your changes have been taken into account. The point is that we tried to mirror both the Presidential Law and the local law the possibility of holding elections at the same time. At first, there was the idea of not writing anything in the presidential law at all, and then it was clear that it was to be the subject of consideration, the object of reaction to the local law. But yesterday, by insisting on the impact faction, I think it's the right thing to do in the person of Mr. Oleg Didenck, to take these proposals into account, because we have a problem with how, in the order in which to calculate the votes in these areas, which in the first order to transport the ballots and so on. It's all accounted for here. Some nuances are not taken into account by those we removed from here and arranged to incorporate into the local law. So here, because it's not really organic, it says that this law wanted us to make changes to the local law. As we adopted on the first reading of the local law, there is no point in making changes to it.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u132	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u133	But in the second reading of the local law, we agreed yesterday that all your amendments would be reflected in that law, in the local law, that is, all of them, without exception. Just the ones that relate to this are now reflected here, and all the rest will be reflected in that. Because this law changes the local law. When we have it. [[B in m in s a l in]] Can you give me a specific number? Let's see, 39 amendments. Amendment 39.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u134	Please comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u135	Now I'm going to find out what this amendment is. Read this amendment. In the event of the election of the President of Ukraine at the same time as the election of the People's Deputies of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and so forth, the electoral commissions also exercise the powers laid down by the laws of such, so on and so forth. I say, in view of the fact that we write specifically in those laws, the powers that are being exercised, we simply have no sense of duplicating these things in these laws. If you insist on this amendment, I am prepared theoretically. Yeah. But I am firmly opposed to allowing for the election of the President with the election of the national deputies. Because this is explicitly forbidden by all the international legal obligations of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u136	I can see that the author accepted the suggestions. 109 amendment, so I hear from the author, he asks her to announce it, and he insists on voting 109 amendments. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u137	Sorry, it's just a huge amount, me.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u138	I am writing in parallel to the Secretariat, asking the deputies to come to the session room. We will now put a very important question to the vote. 109th, Ruslan.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u139	109's got to be taken into account, that's a mistake. I agree.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u140	So there's a proposal to consider. We, if we vote not to tear up the amendment right now, we'll take 109 amendments into account. I'm begging you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u141	Yesterday's decision was made. I don't know why, well, it's in the table again.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u142	Please turn on the microphone of the People’s Deputy Karpuntsov.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u143	Also, dear colleagues, I want to pay attention to a rather important position -- this is about printing ballots. Now, we're rejecting this amendment that applies to the Ukrainian polygraph, but I want to draw your attention to the fact that both the Ukrainian polygraph and the Nazbank monetary court are regular objects that Ukrainian national MPs do not even have access to. And this is a pretty important situation. We need to make changes to legislation. Of course, it can't be a National Bank enterprise, it's a newsletter, it needs to be done by polygraph companies that can control the printing of ballot papers.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u144	I can explain. The point is, fellow respectable colleagues, that we predict a standard according to which ballots are printed with degrees of protection. There are only two businesses in Ukraine that can do so. I didn't interrupt. In accordance with the legislation, establish official levels of protection for documents. As for the particular business that is offered. In fact, 99.9 percent of all newsletters will be printed on the enterprise you propose to introduce into the body of the law. But we can't specifically name an enterprise in the body of the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u145	I'll be right there. As far as access to the enterprise is concerned, according to the law, you know, a faction control group is formed from factions that have full access to all ballot printing processes, as well as every election. The other thing is, if that happens, and this happens, I'm responsible for telling you, practically in all the electoral processes of the election of the national MPs during the so-called re-voting or what's called the second-round people. Because there's a very small time for printing ballots, there's also the power of the monetary court, it's true. Will this time be enough time to print? I think that's enough. Because if this was predicted for just seven days before, we're now predicting 12 days. As the Central Election Commission reported to the committee yesterday, it allows it to print 100 percent of all ballots on the "Ukraine" polygraph. At least at the time of printing the newsletters at the U.K. Polygraph combine, the control groups that worked there from all the factions of Parliament have never shown any disturbances in the printing of ballot papers. Personally, at least I don't know about it.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u146	Please, the People's Deputy Karpunts.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u147	I ask you to note that apart from Ukraine, the Kiev offset has all the licenses and licenses to carry out these actions, not just one enterprise. But I want to pay attention, the U.K. Polygraph combine and the authorities did not legally refer to the administration of the National Bank of Ukraine, and that needs to be rectified. Why don't we change the law and bring the U.S. Polygraph combine back to the state she was in all the time?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u148	Because it wasn't the law that introduced him, it was the decision of the Cabinet of Ministers. If the Cabinet of Ministers decides to return to the Treasury now, we won't deny it. But the law is about to make changes to the Cabinet of Ministers, so this is going to be a very big novelty.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u149	Dear colleagues, is there a proposal to put these amendments to the vote? I can. [[B in m in s a l in]] Let's have a discussion. It's a second reading. Dear colleagues, we can put an amendment to the vote when the author insists. When there is no such insistence, let us make a decision in an editorial committee that takes into account the position expressed by the national deputy Karpuntsov and confirmed by the National Deputy Knazevitch, where there was a purely technical error in disregarding this amendment. Remind me of the number of this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u150	39 and 109 amendments are included as a whole, and I propose to make changes.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u151	Dear colleagues!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u152	Well, we've taken that into account, as well as what we've done from the very beginning with regard to the 9th article on living in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u153	They counted it. Dear colleagues, taking these amendments into account, the proposal is to take a decision and vote on the law in the second reading and in general taking into account the position of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u154	And technical law.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u155	Well, technically, they're going to prove that the law is now large enough, it's a big amendment that needs to be tied together. Dear colleagues, may we vote? We can. I ask all national deputies to take their seats. Have a seat, dear friends, a very important question, we are all interested in making the President's election fair and clear. Please, sit down. Draft Law 3224-d is put to the vote. Please support the law in the second reading and in general. Please vote. [[13:47:41]] For 226 Decision taken. Dear fellow Members, I only ask of all the national deputies: Let us take our duties more seriously and be responsible. The factions, please. Region Party – 1, Parenthood – 66, Impact – 35, Sovereign European Ukraine – 28, Economic Development – 27, Freedom – 33, Communist – 0, non-fractional – 36. So I understand that the proposal from the pro-profession word committee to go back to the draft regulation on ensuring the unhindered activity of the media during the pre-election period. No objection, dear colleagues? Let's go back to this question, please vote ad hoc to get back to that question and consider it. Please, colleagues, take your seats. Colleagues, take your seats and let's work for Ukraine. Please vote and support the proposal, turn on the "Council" system. [[13:48:55]] For 230 Decision taken. Dear colleagues! There is a proposal to support the draft Regulation on the provision of unhindered media activities during the pre-election period 2014 (number, recall, 4283) by adopting it as a whole. Please include the "Council" system and identify the national MPs on this issue as a basis and as a whole. Please be supportive. [[13:49:30.]] For 231 Decision taken. Dear colleagues! We have a lot of questions that need to be taken into account in the second reading, and I want to give the floor to the Economic Policy Committee of Ivanchuku Andriy Volodymirovich, which is draft Law No. 2037: on amending certain legislative acts to improve the activities of shareholders. And I'd like to get information from the Counting Commission, is there information already on the Counting Commission or not? Please contact the head of the Counting Commission and invite him to the hall. Xenia Leapina from the committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u156	Thank you, fellow believers. The bill was prepared by the previous Cabinet of Ministers. The discussions around him went on for a long time. 191 amendments were made to the second reading. Some of them are counted, some of them are rejected. Many discussions continue to revolve around these issues raised in the bill. And these questions are very important because Ukraine needs to regain its investment appeal. And as long as we have management in stockholder societies, it's rather management to deceive someone, not management for the common benefit, until, unfortunately, Ukraine's investment attraction remains low. This bill improves the mechanism for determining the market value of securities, prohibits stockholders from purchasing their own shares when they are placed, the obligation of a stockholder to keep at least one stock exchange listed. In other words, support the status of public shareholders. And so on. There is also a question of making decisions when there is an interest, so called an interest in decisions to be made when there is an interest in officials in making such decisions and there is doubt as to their benefit to all other shareholders. There is a question of the right to buy out shareholders who do not agree with a decision that is approved by the shareholders’ management and that they have the right to buy out shares at market price. And actually, setting this market price is also regulated by this law. However, it should be noted that since the adoption of the decision in the second reading, and the committee has supported the bill in the second reading, there have been comments from the Chief Legal Authority on three pages. I mean, to say that it's completely perfect and that there's no contradiction, unfortunately, you can't right now. That's why we can either go through a vote for specific amendments that can make the project even more balanced, or make the decision to re-read the second reading. Let the hall determine.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u157	Dear colleagues, you have heard the report of the committee of profile. I see Victor Mikhailovich Pinzenik, the strike faction. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u158	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, Your Honor Alexander Valentinovich! Since the bill contains a lot of norms that are still debated and that need to be worked on, I think we can save time and save time for other things, if we make a decision -- send them back to read so that the committee and the amendment authors can work and draft a bill that will be supported by the majority in this room. Now vote for re-reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u159	Dear colleagues, can we put the vote to a second reading? Please, People's Deputy Golovko. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u160	Deputies! Mikhailo Golovko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, 164th District, Ternopolishte. In fact, we have considered this bill in our committee, which has caused much discussion in connection with what has actually been made very many amendments to it – 191 proposals, of which 91 have been taken into account. But there are a number of amendments that give rise to observations. And especially this is Amendment 139, which was introduced by the MEP who was *** supported, unfortunately, by the committee in question. canceling the establishment of a corporate secretary, which is very important. And we have before this amendment, by the way, a request for it to be supported. But in view of the fact that many amendments have not been taken into account, then really the proposal of Kseniya Mikhailnowna -- to send this bill for re-reading, where we will be able to make an agreed position by the committee, and it will be consolidated to make a decision on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u161	Dear colleagues, there's an offer, I understand, a larger hundred hall supports it, to turn the law back to second reading. Yeah? Yes. So that we can save time and not continue to discuss the matter. What's more, I see you're ready to report to the Count Commission. Dear colleagues, I ask you to support the proposal of both the committee and the national deputies, and return this bill to read again. Please vote. Project number 2037. Please back up for a second read. [[13:55:48]] For 219 The decision is not taken. I take it this law can be rejected at all? [[B in m in s a l in]] You can't. Then put the committee forward -- he's also, I see, he won't vote. Turn on the microphone of the people's deputy Kugel.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u162	Thank you very much. Alexander Valentinovich, this law is very important and fundamental not only to entrepreneurs, but to those major and minority shareholders who turn to national MPs for the protection of their rights. If it were to be voted in the first reading without any amendment, it could now be voted on as a whole. Maybe we should try it, without all the amendments in the first reading it is the best. If not, we ask many deputies to be able to work on the committee. But without it, we have no right, no opportunity to turn to our voters, that we have not taken any steps to improve this market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u163	Dear colleagues, may I put to the vote the law as a whole in an editorial that was put to the first reading? I can't, I can see they don't support MPs. Dear colleagues, at the same time a committee has long worked on the law, and may return and vote on the return of the law for a second reading. Colleagues, I ask you to sit down and support this proposal so that you don't lose the work that's very important, and in the near future, by working on this law, to adopt it in Parliament. Dear colleagues, please, Vitaly Volodymyrovich, I also ask you to sit down and vote on this matter. Dear colleagues, please sit down. Let's try again to vote on the return of this project (registration number 2037) -- let me remind you, this is a change to some of the Ukrainian legislative acts to improve the activities of shareholders -- by returning it to a second reading. Please, colleagues, back up and vote. Please vote. [[13:58:14]] For 227 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I see the head of the Counting Commission. Please give him your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u164	Dear colleagues! Dear Lord Chairman! Please note Protocol No.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Counting Commission. Members of the reckoning commission present (I will not count). have heard about the summary of the secret ballot for the appointment of members of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. The ballot for the secret ballot on the appointment of members of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine included the following nominations: Melnik Mikola Ivanovich, Sas Sergey Volodymyrovich, Slidenko Igor Dmitrovic, Stretovich Vladimir Mikolajovic, Shevčuk Stanislav Volodymyrovich. On the basis of the results of the secret ballot, the Counting Commission established the number of Ukrainian national deputies who had been recognized. The number of Ukrainian national deputies who received ballots for secret ballots was 261; the number of Ukrainian national deputies who took part in the vote was 261; the number of ballots declared invalid was 27. So to be clear, these are people who just put six signs in a row. The number of ballot papers that did not support any candidate is 6. Thus, Melnik Mikola Ivanovic won 207 votes, Sas Sergey Volodymyrovich – 216 votes, Slidenko Igor Dmitrovic – 186 votes, Stretovich Vladimir Mikolaiovich – 173 votes, Shevčuk Stanislav Volodymyrovic – 198 votes. In accordance with articles 85 and 148 of the Constitution of Ukraine, article 7 of the Ukrainian Act on the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, chapter 7 and article 208 of the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Committee decided: To treat as unassigned members of the Constitutional Court any candidate. The situation is very difficult. Because there were statements made by national MPs who had made no mistakes. There were statements made by national deputies who made a mistake and placed six in a row. There are statements from national MPs that have just failed to make it today with the little time spent voting. Therefore, we would like to believe that such a vote did not take place for technical reasons. Please. No candidate on the basis of the vote is currently recognized by this protocol of the Counting Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u165	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'm asking you to sit down, let's be clear on this. I'll remind you that's the fundamental importance of the question. Because the Constitutional Court has documents that need to be considered immediately, the issue concerns national security. I'm asking you to sign up for the faction. And I'm going to let the factions perform and the non-factional. Please sign up for the factions about our further actions, in view of the fact that no vote took place on technical matters. Please, Party of Regions, Dudenkov. I'm sorry, there was an old recording. The Strike faction, Montenegro. He's asking for a pass, turn on her microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u166	On behalf of our faction, we ask that we support the proposal proposed by the Counting Commission: to recognize elections as not held for technical reasons. We're going to suggest that we recycle the ballot immediately and make it more clear, where opposite each last name is going to be "Yes" or "No". And in the end, I just don't support anyone, you don't have to write that. And it'll be more understandable. Since the Constitutional Court really has to be formed today, this is really the responsibility of our Parliament. And I want to support on behalf of our faction the same previous speakers, Nicholas Tomenka. You know, it's unacceptable that at a time like this we have a few deputies who don't show up in the session room for two months at all. This is their responsibility to the people of Ukraine today. They don't want to work, let's appeal to them, let them put their mandates in place, and there will be those nationals who will work and adopt the necessary laws, whichever party, faction or region doesn't apply. And we're going to take more time to vote, not an hour, but an hour and a half, because that's very important.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u167	I got the offer. Please, "Sovereign European Ukraine", Jeremeyev, National Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u168	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! We know at what moment of responsibility our nation is at today. And it is very sad to see that some national MPs are even involved in politics at this point. From the group "Northern European Ukraine" we propose. The first is those candidates who won less than 200 votes, it's clear that there's no technical error here. This is the obvious attitude of trust. But those who have won more than 200 votes must actually prepare a more perfect ballot so that it is clear how to conduct the vote and re-vote. I am addressing colleagues from the political forces who have decided not to vote. You can tell the Ukrainian people much about your love for the country, but today you are talking about whether you love Ukraine as a sovereign and in the territory it is today. And I'm asking you, don't politicize the question, take an honest step towards the country and the people -- vote and give it a chance.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u169	Let me finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u170	Once again, I ask all members of the people to vote and allow us to work for the Constitutional Court so that we can make an appropriate decision regarding Crimea. You understand very well why this is necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u171	Thank you. Please, from the "Fatherland" faction, the people's deputy Kugel passes the word to Sergei Sobolev. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u172	Dear colleagues, distinguished listeners! Indeed, the situation is very important. Our proposal is as follows. The easiest thing to do is to go on the road when we immediately vote on the issue of the form of the ballot, and then there will be an hour of voting. In the form of a bulletin, at least 240 national deputies were confirmed to support the members of the Constitutional Court that were proposed. Unfortunately, 20 of our colleagues are actually next to all the names, 27, they're being specified, and with all the names, they're still putting one little piece against everyone. In my opinion, in the form of a newsletter, it is very important to separate this item and everyone will be able to determine. So for technical reasons, there was no vote, and we have the opportunity to sum it up today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u173	Please, National Deputy Suhi, Economic Development.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u174	Dear colleagues! Jaroslav Suhi, town of Zaporozhye, district 74, member of the Counting Commission, former head of the Counting Commission. First of all, I'd like to report that the group, the MP's "Economic Choice" group, participated fully in the vote. But respectable faction leaders who have signed up for the coalition work with your Ukrainian national deputies. I don't want to say that many of them don't know the alphabet, confuses where A, B, B, H, D and so on. What happened? 261, 27 plus 6, you count, the election is supposed to take place, so work with your deputies, I want to support my colleague Soboleva. Alexander Valentinovich, please have a new decree on this. I'm glad we're making an election at 4:00. Why? The situation was really threatening, well, there had never been one in Ukraine when we had a situation where we were addressing the United Nations. I'd like to propose from the Economic Choice Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u175	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u176	I'd like to propose from the Economic Choice Group. "Economic development" is to appoint an election for 4:00. And one more thing. I want to confirm that we have, in the Counting Commission, representatives of different factions, but this unanimity has yet to follow democratic procedures. And it's great that nothing else happened, but that's exactly what the head of the Counting Commission said.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u177	Thank you. People's Commission of Sphinx, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u178	Dear colleagues, once again, I insist that the solution to the problem and the withdrawal of tension be reversed by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Allowing the composition of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine to consider the issue of the Crimean referendum without delay. Taking into account the legal side of the matter, we all understand what will be the decision on the matter. The judges will then resign or be released at their own request. These statements are already written on the basis of the standards of law in force and in a legal way. And our faction will support that decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u179	Please, the People's Deputy of Kyde.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u180	Please hand it over to Oleg Tuggnibok.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u181	Turn on Oleg Pullibok's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u182	Oleg Tuggnibok, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Of course, it would be possible to accept the offer of representatives of the Party of the Regions to leave the court in such a composition as it is for it to decide. But something does not want this court to decide in such a way. They seem to be deliberately delaying the process. Evidently, we have received some appropriate guidance. Because of this, the situation is dangerous. The situation that has now taken place by blocking the voting for the judges of the Constitutional Court is actually sabotage and this is a step towards the collapse of territorial integrity and the national sovereignty of the Ukrainian State. I've already figured out, by the way, why the buttons here are green and red. That MPs are confused and unable to vote and find themselves in three pines. At 16 o’clock, we will not leave until five new members of the judges of the Constitutional Court appear.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u183	Dear colleagues, the position of the hall is understood. At 16 o'clock we're back to that question. I'd like all the national deputies to meet you in the session room. And the faction leaders and the head of the profile committee, please come to the head of the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u184	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to take your seats, we continue the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, we have held a meeting of the leaders of the MP factions and groups. We have now held a committee meeting, and in accordance with the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, we will now hold a re-voting session with you. In accordance with the Rules, candidates shall be re-elected during the re-voting. The rules do not prohibit the same candidates. It is because the Supreme Council has full responsibility for the events that are taking place in Ukraine, including the aggressions and provocations that take place on the Crimea Peninsula, in the territory of our country with you, that the Constitutional Court, meeting in the morning, is waiting for us to consider with you the mandates and questions that the Supreme Council has voted and adopted on illegality and referendum, and other provocations that are echoing from separatists who have assumed powers that they have neither constitutional nor legislative rights. Dear colleagues, we have no other option, and we will not leave the Supreme Council until this matter of voting on the judges of the Constitutional Court is considered. And I'm very much asking, honourable colleagues, that we take this issue seriously, that the whole of Ukraine is looking at us, not only. Please return to the election of the judges of the Constitutional Court. And I'd like a representative of the profile committee to provide information on the committee's decision, please. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u185	Dear Head, dear colleagues! At a meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the rule of law and justice that had just taken place, the submission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the Supreme Council for the appointment of judges of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine was considered. The committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine and to appoint judges of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine: Slidenko Igor Dmitrovic, Shevchuk Stanislav Volodimirovich, Melnik Mikol Ivanovich, Sasa Serija Volodymirovic, Stretovich Vladimir Mikolaajovic. All candidates meet the requirements of article 148 of the Constitution of Ukraine and article 16 of the Ukrainian Constitutional Court Act and may be appointed judges of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. All the materials are given to you. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u186	Thank you. The word is given to the head of the Counting Commission Zubko Hennady Grigorovich. I, my esteemed colleagues, so that there will be no speculation about this subject, read to you article 41 of the "Secret Voting" (this is the Supreme Council Rules). Fourth position of this article: "If no vote is taken on the list, not assigned to the necessary number of persons, consideration of the same day-to-day issue with the new appointment of candidates for vacant posts shall continue." A new nomination has taken place, please, now we have to bring this issue to fruition. Please, the head of the Counting Commission.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u187	For the organization of the secret ballot of the Supreme Council for the election of the judges of the Constitutional Court, I ask the members of the Counting Commission to meet in the fifth office on the 3rd floor to approve the sample of the ballot. Everybody up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u188	I am very much asking the Digital Commission to deal with this issue promptly and to approve a five - minute newsletter. As long as we can talk about it. Please turn on the microphone of the people’s MP Rudzkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u189	Dear Alexander Valentinovich! I also address the members of the Counting Commission, please make a ballot where you can vote for or against. And then it'll be clear to every national MP. That's the first one. Alexander Valentine's Day, I'm addressing you, whether candidates come up or maybe go out to the rostrum, maybe someone asks a question, maybe someone doesn't know who the vote is. And we're going to take that question down. And the last. I'm talking to all the faction leaders, first of all those who go to the majority. After-faction, we understand the responsibility that is now before the Supreme Council. We're voting, and you can't organize your factions so we can have a successful vote. Either you accept the nominations, or you can make those no-no-no-no-no. I'm asking the candidates to come to the rostrum and maybe someone has a question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u190	Thank you. Dear colleagues, if there is no objection, please, the national deputy of Žuravsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u191	Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues! The crash took place for technical reasons, a lot of new MPs, and they got lost, they didn't know how to vote. So the faction leaders should, I think, conduct a briefing, show the newsletter, and then everything will be fine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u192	Dear colleagues! I think all MPs are certified. As far as the ballot is concerned, the Counting Commission will now take into account the shortcomings that have been encountered during the last vote, so that MPs do not confuse positions or put "birds" in a position that applies to "I do not support anyone." Even in elections to the Supreme Council, this position is not available to the President on the basis of the references made by the Venice Commission. And it seems to me that when the Counting Commission takes this decision now too, it will make the vote too much easier and even the MPs who have not passed the course as they should vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Right, I mean, technically, not by content, they won't be able to make a mistake. Please, the Chechetov People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u193	Dear Alexander Valentinović, distinguished colleagues! We have worked together to restore the normal rule in Parliament and to formalize it in the amendment to the Rules when each MP finally votes with his card. Please support the initiative that was taken earlier when the Chairman, the Head of the Supreme Council, announced how many people were present on the basis of written writings on tables, who were absent and for what reasons. And probably those who work in the Cabinet of Ministers in the executive branch in order to be able to vote, and the quorum was in the Hall must be determined, and someone should go in and do only parliamentary work, and someone should do work in the Cabinet of Ministers. And we ask you to register two TSCs: one TSC, by political persecution, the second TSC, which has already triggered international resonance, is shooting snipers who have shot each other and provoked bloodshed in Maidan. Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u194	Please, National Deputy Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u195	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear fellow national MPs! To an 80-year-old blind woman in a village, coming to a polling station, getting a subway ticket, and figuring out where to put the twig. And you're telling me that 27 people were wrong and they didn't put a twig there! The whole nation is laughing at us! I've got tens of calls on the intermission. Who's meeting you there? We're in the village and we know where to put this little branch. People come to the election, five-foot ballots, and they find their candidate and their party, and you can't find it. You know what I'm trying to tell you. Dear colleagues, enough to play, two days later in Crimea the separatists on the boards of the Russian military want to hold a so - called referendum. Our task with you is to make sure that this referendum does not take place and that there is an important role in this matter of the Constitutional Court. So let us not play with fire and the fate of Ukraine. Vote! And whoever doesn't know where to put the twig, I'll take you to the village, let the peasants teach you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u196	Please turn on the microphone of the Swedish national MP. Please, Victor Dmitrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u197	Dear Alexander Valentinovich! I think there really was a technical error there, and a lot of the deputies just didn't get the sense of how this protocol was drafted. I think it would be absolutely appropriate for each candidate to vote in favour of a separate ballot. And in this newsletter, there would be only two so-called graphs — yes or no. And that's where all the debate ended. Every judge, every person is elected to the position of judge individually. So it seems like it would be absolutely right and appropriate for everyone to have a separate newsletter, as it were, before. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u198	Dear colleagues, I will remind you that according to the Rules, the Counting Commission determines the form of a bulletin. And I hope that now the head of the Counting Commission will inform us what form of the bulletin they have approved. And I'm asking the National Deputies to go into detail so we don't make any mistakes the third time we're here with you at night. Please turn on the microphone of the People's Deputy Knazević.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u199	Dear Mr. Head, honourable colleagues, first of all, I want to tell you that we can't put the Count in the ballot: vote against. This is expressly prohibited by Ukraine's international obligations. We can only vote in favour. A person votes against it when he does not go to the election or when he does not fill out the ballot. With regard to the graph "I do not support any candidate," today, honourable colleagues, we voted as a whole in favour of amending the Presidential Elections Act, where we removed this inadequacy from the last of the laws that exist in the elections, and properly brought them into line with the requirements of the Venice Commission. But, Alexander Valentinovich, we need to think about something. On many occasions in its decisions, the Constitutional Court has condemned practices, declared them unconstitutional, Supreme Council votes, secret ballots, including the election of the Supreme Council. Perhaps we would still make changes to the Rules – and the judges of the Constitutional Court, as they ask, vote, not in secret, but in an open vote. And that would make it much easier for us to get a positive one.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u200	Dear colleagues, I don't think we can put this to a vote right now, because it's a matter of preparing changes to the law. I then ask the regulatory committee to prepare appropriate changes when they actually come out of the decisions of the Constitutional Court and the requirements of the Venice Commission. Please, Your Honor, I can already see the head of the Counting Commission. Please, the Honourable Head of the Counting Commission, Hennaday Grigorovich Zubko, please inform the National Deputies and personally ask you to stop in detail on the form of the bulletin and the rules of its completion. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u201	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! There was a meeting of the Counting Commission of the Supreme Council. Of the 20 members of the Meeting of the Counting Commission, 15 were present. The meeting of the commission is a full-fledged one. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at its meeting approved this form of ballot for secret ballots. The ballot is made on white paper in the form of a rectangle with a black inscription. The ballot paper for secret ballots will be issued by the County Commission at the registration desks only after the national deputy’s identification has been presented. Ladies and gentlemen of the people, I call your attention. There are five candidates for the Constitutional Court. If you support one candidature, you put a mark in one cell, if two is two. If you do not support any candidates, please do not label or cross all names at all and drop them in the urn. [[B in m in s a l in]] If all five are marked, all five are marked. Believe me, there are so many mistakes. Very many deputies then ask that they want to write statements because they have dropped an empty ballot or have placed other extra marks in general. We specifically removed "I don't support any candidates" from this list. If someone doesn't support any candidates, let them throw a blank ballot in the urn, and that'll be his position. According to 39 articles of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, the vote is held in a secret ballot box by means of markings on the ballot that testify to the will of the national MP. The ballot will then be placed in boxes that will be installed in the second floor towers at the registration desks of Ukraine’s national deputies. Five names of candidates for the Constitutional Court judges have been added to the ballot for secret ballots. This is Melnik Mikola Ivanovich, Sas Sergey Volodymyrovich, Slidenko Igor Dmitrović, Stretovich Vladimir Mikolaiovich, Shevchuk Stanislav Volodymyrovic. The receiving of ballots by the Ukrainian people's deputies, the secret ballot will take place – attention! Please! - at 16.45-17.45 in the second floor towers at the registration desks of the Ukrainian National Deputies. I'm talking to the chairman. Please let us vote on the continuation of today's session until the conclusion of the summary vote for the nomination of candidates of the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u202	Dear colleagues, first of all, let us approve the minutes of the Counting Commission and the bulletins proposed by the Counting Commission. I ask, Your Honor, to prepare for the vote and support the proposal of the Counting Commission to approve the protocol and the bulletin. Please. [[16:27:36]] For 233 Decision taken. We've approved a ballot with you. And I ask, my fellow Members, all to support the proposal of the Head of the Counting Commission that we continue today's work before the conclusion of this matter, until the election of the judges of the Constitutional Court. Please support this proposal and vote. Please vote. Turn on the "Race" system. Please vote. [[16:28:13]] For 239. Decision taken. Dear National Deputies! You heard the report of the head of the Counting Commission. I would like to emphasize once again that the vote is traditionally held in the towers of the Supreme Council. There are five names of candidates for the post of Judge of the Constitutional Court. When you're supporting all five candidates, you're putting a mark on each of them -- plus, bird -- it doesn't matter. When you don't support candidates, you don't label them. Do you understand the position? It's a very difficult mistake to make. Dear colleagues, we support -- we put up plus, we don't support -- we don't put anything. Understand? By vote. At 4:45 p.m., we're starting the voting process in 15 minutes. And now you can leave, maybe the Counting Commission is still preparing for the start of the vote. And at 5:45, we finish the vote, right, the head of the Counting Commission? And the Counting Commission sums it up. I'm asking you, Your Honor, to begin this process immediately. So there's no statement that they haven't been able to vote again. Let's get organized, too responsible for our work today. The whole country is looking at the Supreme Council. Let us be worthy of the Ukrainian people who trusted us to be here in Parliament. A vote shall be taken. And we're going to meet you here at the Supreme Council Hall at 6 p.m. to sum up the voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u203	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to take your seats. Now we're gonna find out who the judges supported by the national MPs. I am requesting the head of the Counting Commission, Zubko Hennady Grigorovich, to report on the results of the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u204	Dear colleagues, the honourable chairman! I would like to read to your agreement protocol No. 2A of the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 13 March 2014. Attending: Head of Zubko, Deputy Head of the Counting Commission Kanivec, Secretary of the Counting Commission, Gordijenko, members of the Counting Commission – Helevey, Hinka, Demidko, Zaribinsky, Zubčevsky, Kalozny, Kugel, Kuprejčik, Final, Oilynik, Pavlovsky, Pinchuk, Skobaszewski, Stoyan, Suchi, Chechtov, Chugunnikov. They heard about the summary of the secret ballot on the appointment of members of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. The following candidates were included in the ballot for the secret ballot on the appointment of members of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine: Melnik Mikola Ivanovich, Sas Sergey Volodymyrovich, Slidenko Igor Dmitrović, Stretovic Vladimir Mikolajovic, Shevčuk Stanislav Volodymyrovic. On the basis of the results of the secret vote, the Counting Commission has established: the number of Ukrainian national deputies who have been recognized as having received ballots for secret ballots, -268; the number of Ukrainian national deputies who took part in the vote, -268; the number of ballots declared invalid, -0. We didn't support any of the candidates - 3. Thus, the following candidates obtained the following number of votes: Melnik Mikola Ivanovich - 245 - pro, 3 - against; [[Applause]] Sas Sergey Volodymyrovich - 257 - pro, 3 - against; [[Applause]] Slidenko Igor Dmitrovitch – 239 – "for", 3 – against; [[Applause]] Strtovic Volodimir Mikolajovic – 203 – "for", 3 – against; Shevchuk Stanislav Volodymyrovich – 244 – pros, 3 – vs. [[Applause]] In accordance with articles 85 and 148 of the Constitution of Ukraine, article 7 of the Ukrainian Act on the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, chapter HR and article 208 of the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Committee decided: Considered members of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine Melnik Mikol Ivanovich, Sasa Sergio Volodymyrovich, Slidenko Igor Dmitrovic, Shevchuk Stanislav Volodymyrovich. Signatures: Head of the Counting Commission - Zubko, Deputy - Kanovec, Secretary - Gordijenko; Heleway, Hinka, Zarubinsky, Zubčevsky, Kugel, Kupreichik, Final, Pavlovsky, Stoyan, Dry, Chugunnikov. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u205	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! In accordance with article 42 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, on the basis of a report by the Digital Commission, I hereby announce the appointment of judges of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine: Melnik Mikol Ivanovich, Sasa Sergio Volodymyrovich, Slidenko Igor Dmitrovic and Shevchuk Stanislav Volodymyrovich. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues! We have the prime minister, Prime Minister Jarem. We have both the President of Ukraine and the Head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine present. Today, on March 13, 2014, pursuant to article 85, 148 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine appointed by secret ballot a ballot of judges of the Constitutional Court: Melnik Mikola Ivanovich, Sasa Sergija Volodymyrovich, Slidenko Igor Dmitrovitch, Shevchuk Stanislav Volodymyrovich. Dear National Deputies! According to article 217 of the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and article 17 of the Ukrainian Act on the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, the Constitutional Court judge of the Constitutional Court takes an oath at the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Before inviting our honorary judges of the Constitutional Court to take an oath, I ask you to take your seats, we have one more question to consider. In accordance with the requirements of legislation, Sas Sergey Volodymyrovich wrote the statement: "Please terminate my mandate as a national deputy of Ukraine as a matter of time on the basis of article 81, part two, of the Constitution of Ukraine, on the basis of my appointment as judge of the Constitutional Court." Dear colleagues, no objection to voting on this decision? I won't.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u206	Respectful colleagues are sure to do so. I ask you, Your Honor, to support this decision on early retirement, the termination of the authority of Sergio Volodymyrovich Sasa as a national deputy. Please activate the "Council" system and vote. [[18:23:19]] For 227 Decision taken. Dear National Deputies! To make an oath to the rostrum, the judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, Melnik Mikola Ivanovich, is invited.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u207	I, Melnik Mikola Ivanovich, solemnly swear to honorably and conscientiously perform the high duties of the judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, to ensure the rule of the Constitution of Ukraine, to protect the constitutional order of the state, the constitutional rights and freedoms of man and citizen. I am aware of the great responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u208	Judge Sas Sergey Volodymyrovich is invited to take an oath to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u209	Thank you. I, Sas Sergey Volodymyrovich, solemnly and conscientiously swear to the high duties of the judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, to ensure the rule of the Constitution of Ukraine, to protect the constitutional order of the state, to protect the constitutional rights and freedoms of man and citizen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u210	Judge Slidenko Igor Dmitrović of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine is invited to take an oath to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u211	I, Sledenko Igor Dmitrovitch, solemnly swear to honorably and conscientiously perform the high duties of the judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, to ensure the rule of the Constitution of Ukraine, to protect the constitutional order of the state, the constitutional rights and freedoms of man and citizen. Thank you for your confidence.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u212	To make an oath to the rostrum, Judge Shevchuk Stanislav Volodymyrovic of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine is invited.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u213	I, Shevchuk Stanislav Volodymyrovich, solemnly and conscientiously swear to the high duties of the judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, to ensure the rule of the Constitution of Ukraine, to protect the constitutional order of the state, to protect the constitutional rights and freedoms of man and citizen. Thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-13-m0.u214	Dear colleagues, I very much hope that after today's election of the new judges of the Constitutional Court there will be a restoration of the confidence and authority of this very important State body. Honorable national MPs, let us welcome the newly elected judges and wish them the honor of doing our duty. (Applause) Dear colleagues, we've accomplished important tasks today, and we will continue to work, honourable national deputies, tomorrow at 10 a.m. Moreover, I will suggest to the Supreme Council that we meet with you on Monday, taking into account the situation in Ukraine. That's why we're adjourning tonight's meeting. The Supreme Council will resume its work tomorrow at 10 o'clock. Good-bye.
