ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-27-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, please take your seats. Let's do the registration. I'd like to turn on the "Ray" system. [[10:06:30.]] A total of 306 national deputies registered in the Hall. The Supreme Council will begin its meeting. Dear colleagues, I would like to provide information to our citizens and honourable colleagues that, as we have promised, Ukraine has taken action, and Major General Voronchenko, Colonel Mamchure, Lieutenant Colonel Delettitsky, Major Lomtev is at large. Let's welcome these brave people. [[Applause]] I want to make an announcement. According to this statement and in accordance with the third part of article 60 of the Supreme Council Rules, I report the entry of National Deputy Revenka Anatolia Dmitrovic as part of the political party's political faction. Say hello to the MP. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a very responsible day today. Today the government is presenting anti-crisis measures, the first package of most important legislative acts that our Parliament needs to adopt. I ask, Your Honor, to sit in your seats and support the proposal of the Cabinet of Ministers for the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Law (Registration No. 4576) on the prevention of a financial disaster and the creation of preconditions for economic growth in Ukraine and the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget 2014 (Registration No. 4575). Dear colleagues, may I put to the vote that the Supreme Council will support the inclusion of these laws in the agenda? And after that, I would like to give the floor to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for their presentation. By the time the laws have been passed, one law has already been distributed, while the Prime Minister is speaking, we will hand over all the laws to the people's deputies. As for further work, respected colleagues regarding further work. Next, this proposal was discussed yesterday with the leaders of the MP factions. The Prime Minister is making a presentation, providing information, hiding nothing from the Supreme Council and the Ukrainian people. Answers questions of the national MPs. And we're taking a break until 4:00 to get to know the law in detail. The prime ministers and ministers are ready to meet the factions. And I would like to ask that factions meet because these issues are too important and too responsible today's decision, and there are appropriate factions that are responsible for the budgetary, tax, customs and other issues that are put into the agenda. And at 4 p.m., we'd start looking at these questions and voting. That's why, honourable colleagues, there is a proposal to now support the inclusion in the agenda of these two laws, then to give the floor to their presentation to the Prime Minister. Please take your seats and support. I beg your pardon, I'll give you my word. And support this proposal. Please vote for inclusion in the agenda of the day projects (registration number 4576, 4575). I'd like your support, Your Honor. [[10:11:59]] For the 220. The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, there is a question of the order of the day, or the MPs have not understood the responsibility that lies with each one of us today for the situation in the country. Please turn on the factions. Region Party One, Parenthood 74, Klicka Impact 28, Economic Development 27. "North Ukraine" is 29, "Freedom" is 33, the Company is 0, non-fractional is 28. Dear colleagues, I ask you to sit down and stop walking around the hall. It's the lives of our citizens, the existence of a country in the end! Please sit down and vote! I am re-voting the issue of the inclusion in the agenda of the Financial Disaster Prevention and Prematures Act in Ukraine, as well as the draft Act amending the Ukraine State Budget Act 2014. Please vote for inclusion in the agenda. [[10:13:26]] For 221 The decision is not taken. The factions. Please sign up for the performance. And I'm asking you to show the results of the factions vote. Regional Party – 0, Fatherland – 76, Impact – 29, Economic Development – 27, Sovereign Ukraine – 30, Freedom – 33, non-fractional – 26. Please, Economic Development, Žuravsky, National Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-27-m0.u2	Respectful colleagues, apparently in time, are working with faction leaders and groups, and individual MPs who are part of the coalition. Where are these people, I ask? Why don't they go to work? Are they not disciplined? Order up, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-27-m0.u3	I think Mr. Zharavsky should also ask his group such questions. Please, from the Fatherland faction, National Deputy Bondarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-27-m0.u4	Please pass the word to Soboljev.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-27-m0.u5	Turn on the microphone of the national MP Soboljev.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-27-m0.u6	Dear colleagues, first of all, here a few of my colleagues turned, they didn't have any buttons to vote on, so they raised their hand. Secondly, our proposal is as follows. We understand that we need to start the process of discussion. In order to start this process of discussion, we need to include these issues in the agenda. Then, as far as I know, the Prime Minister's scheduled meetings and the financial and economic bloc with all the factions. We won't even be able to hold these meetings if we don't get into the agenda. So our proposal is this: we're putting these issues into the agenda, we're talking about factions, we're talking about committees, and we're going back into the order of the debate at a time when they define committees and factions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-27-m0.u7	Thank you. Please, the People's Deputy of Peace passes the word to the People's Deputy. Turn on Oleg Pullibok's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-27-m0.u8	Thank you. Oleg Tuggnibok, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear Society, I very much ask that you pay attention to what is now being done in the Ukrainian Parliament. First of all, I'm talking to our voters, all the Ukrainians, the Party of Regions and the Communists are deliberately voting not just for this bill, but for not putting it into the agenda. Do you know why? Because they've been stealing the state treasury for four years, and today the state treasury is empty, and they're afraid that the prime minister will name the real numbers that the Ukrainian economy has turned into today. And by offering real steps out of this just terrible, over-critical situation, to come out of this crisis, they're not afraid to take responsibility for themselves, they're going to talk about the necessary cuts in tariffs, social services and so on. And this was all because of theirs.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-27-m0.u9	Let me finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-27-m0.u10	And it was because of their gang politics. Of course, we vote how much we have to vote, we vote in favour of the agenda, but the people of Ukraine have to see this pharisaic party of regions and communists who first ripped off, who robbed, who got rich at the expense of the people, and now they don't even push the buttons to put into the agenda. You cowards, vote, for the people will respond to your inaction and wickedness. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-27-m0.u11	People's Deputy Dudka, Sovereign European Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-27-m0.u12	Dudka Volodymir, Sovereign European Ukraine. Please pass the word to Victor Bondar.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-27-m0.u13	Turn on the microphone, Victor Bondar, the national MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-27-m0.u14	Dear Alexander Valentinovich! Deputies! The Group "Sovereign European Ukraine" voted in favour of including these bills in the agenda, but we have a question. First of all, the bills were only now distributed in limited quantities in the towers, we didn't see real figures, we didn't see real indicators, and we didn't have the ability to work properly with documents. The other one. We see and hear that the bill provides for a radical increase in fiscal measures and so on. We need to see at the same time a project of reforms and documents that will show how tax reform is going to take place, in other ways that we're giving in return, where we're going to make it easier for the economy, where we're doing deregulation, where we're going to reduce the pressure on business, and where we're opening up new opportunities for Ukraine. The other one. What are the expectations of working with international financial organizations so that we can understand what are the real indicators?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-27-m0.u15	Dear colleagues, I will remind you once again about the inclusion of drafts in the agenda and all the questions you are now asking will be the Prime Minister's answer in his opening statement and reforms and problems. I'm really surprised that even the inclusion of these issues is being blocked, and this is the vitality of the country, this is the pensions and salaries of our citizens, this is the existence of a state. There's even a blockage in the agenda, and I think it's a conscious provocation against Ukraine. Please, Agaphonov People's Deputy, strike faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-27-m0.u16	Please pass the word to Irina Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-27-m0.u17	Please turn on Irina Heratchenko's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-27-m0.u18	Dear colleagues, first of all, I would like to address all members of the coalition and say that we condemn those who are missing this working day and who are not in the session room right now. Our high responsibility is to be here and support the decisions needed to stabilize the situation in the state. The other one. Dear Mr. Head, we ask you to hear the same street and be sure to include in the agenda today the 4238 bill on the liquidation assembly, it is very important and it works in the same way to support the Ukrainian business, which has to pay taxes, taxes, and taxes, both small and medium. And the third. You know, today you showed up in the session room after two months of the absence of a red-skinned leader who walks through parliament and doesn't work. Why is this happening? Perhaps because no one is punished — for either secession or for any subversive activity against the State? The whole Mordor has lifted his head today. A party of regions and communists are again trying, in fact, to ruin the situation in the state and.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-27-m0.u19	Let me finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-27-m0.u20	You know, we were scared by temporary elections a month ago. So, maybe if Parliament doesn't work, we should go to these temporary elections? And so that the Ukrainian people can answer this "Mordor" question whether they deserve it or have the right to be here. And there's more. We ask you to put to the vote now the terms of those deputies who wrote on the mandate, because they were appointed to the executive office, so that other deputies would come in, from the hit, including, and could vote. Our faction wants to vote. Averchenko has written a statement, please put it to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-27-m0.u21	Okay. Please, the People's Deputy of Ephraim, the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-27-m0.u22	Thank you, Alexander Valentinovich. Dear colleagues and distinguished representatives of the provincial coalition! When you were in opposition, you were making a fuss, and there's another way to explain it. Today you have 300 votes, you have the opportunity to vote in favour of any decision, so you do not have to translate your responsibility from a sick head to a healthy one. Now, with regard to the particular issue that we are considering. Alexander Valentinović, we must stop the practice when we put on the agenda issues that have not yet been seen by the MPs and say, "Let's put them on the agenda." Let us look at and then determine whether to include these issues in the agenda or not. Because, according to the data we have, priority measures are not anti-crisis measures, they are anti-national measures that, through the common people, solve all problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-27-m0.u23	National MP Lazko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-27-m0.u24	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear citizens of Ukraine! The first issue that is proposed for consideration in Parliament today is the prevention of a financial disaster and the creation of preconditions for economic growth in Ukraine. And the reasons for this catastrophe are the Party of Regions and the Communist Party. You've brought the country to the pen! You robbed her! Your gang led by Yanukovic has raised $70 billion in Ukraine over the past four years! Ephraim, people are dying on your underground land in Luhansk! You're putting millions in your pocket, funding separatists, and you're here to lecture us?Oh, my God! You killed 100 Heavens, you didn't answer for it! And that's why your job is to either vote or help us save the country from the disaster you've led to, or get the hell out of here to your mother, right in jail for the crimes you committed against the Ukrainian people. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-27-m0.u25	Dear colleagues! [[B in m in s a l in]] Can I ask the voting question again? [[B in m in s a l in]] I ask you again, can I put it to the vote again? [[B in m in s a l in]] Turn on the microphone of the people's representative of Labunski. [[B in m in s a l in]] At a meeting of the Supreme Council, gentlemen of the Communists, you must walk and then you will receive the word! Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-27-m0.u26	Alexander Valentinovich! You all went to work today at the Supreme Council, you saw people come out again. Please tell me where 4238-1 we said and where 4378-1 today is about restoring the trust of the judiciary. We know what provocations are doing. We worked for two weeks with a group of all the deputies and members of the Council of Europe. Yesterday, the committee voted in favour of the first and the whole. Tell me, what are the reforms when the courts today are in the same hands as they were before? Everything you accept will be overturned in these courts. Please, 4378-1 is in the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-27-m0.u27	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we do have a huge number of laws that need to be passed immediately. [[B in m in s a l in]] But without economic stability in the country, all these laws will not work. [[B in m in s a l in]] So I, my fellow Members, ask again the question of voting and ask you to calm down and support the inclusion of this issue in the agenda of our sitting. Please take your seats. Colleagues, I am addressing all national MPs! Mr. Ivanchuk, please take your seats. We will vote in the agenda. [[B in m in s a l in]] Louder! You can't be heard on the street. I would like to support the inclusion of Laws Nos. 4576 and 4575 in the agenda. Please vote. [[10:26:20]] For 239. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I do. By factions, please show me. The Regional Party is 0, Fatherland is 81, Impact is 35, Economic Development is 29, Sovereign European Ukraine is 30, Freedom is 34, Company is 0, non-fractional is 30. Dear colleagues! I see again the hands that have raised the national MPs, but I would consider it necessary to give the floor to the Prime Minister and then you could ask the question, you could ask the Prime Minister or the members of the government. Are we working? But before I give the word to the Prime Minister. Before that.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-27-m0.u28	Take your seats, please. Take your seats, please! Therefore, I would ask once again, my fellow Members, before giving the floor to the Prime Minister, I would ask that the Supreme Council decide that we will work today (deputy Rudzkowski suggested this) until we have decided on these issues to continue the session of Parliament. People's deputies, please. Andrew Volodymyrovich! I'm asking my colleagues to take their seats. Let's vote. Mr. Ivanchuk, take your seats, please! [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, I'm asking you to sit down and support the offer that we're going to work. I'll give you a line. After the vote, I will give the reply to Mr. Ephraim. That we will work until we decide on these issues today. I'll give you my word. Please vote, support this proposal. Please vote. [[10:28:38]] For 233 Decision taken. Please, I give the floor to Mr. Ephraim.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-27-m0.u29	Dear Alexander Valentinovich! First. I'd like to ask you not to violate the Rules. I stress that the Rules are the law in our State, and you have violated it twice today. That's the first one. Second. When you voted for the bill, you had Kupriychuk Irina vote for two. We've got the right photo. In accordance with the Rules, please put to the vote. And third. I'd like to answer one person here who said from the rostrum that, unlike you, we've been paying all the social payments up until the last minute, and we haven't been lowering anyone. And you want the people to start doing their well-being right away. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-27-m0.u30	You've been stealing money and killing Ukraine until the last minute. That's what you were doing until the last moment. [[Applause]] So, dear colleagues, I'm going to be given photos, and I'm going to put the question to the vote. The word is given to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Arsenija Petrovich Yatsenyuk. Please. I ask Arsenija Petrovich to take a little break in connection with the very important question that is being considered today, the importance of this issue that is being considered today. I know there are people on the street before the Supreme Council, please turn on the sound on the street so they can hear everything that's going on in Parliament. Please, Arseny Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-27-m0.u31	Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine, the Honourable Ukrainian People! I ask 30 minutes of your attention to understand the state of the country and what must be done immediately to save Ukraine from bankruptcy. That's exactly what I'm trying to insist on. The country is on the verge of economic and financial bankruptcy. And so the first figure that's proposed for the Ukrainian people to ask governments from 2010 to 2014 is the total fiscal gap. In other words, how much money is missing in the country in 2014? I'd like the Region Party to hear about what they've been leading the country to in the last four years. The total amount of fiscal breakup or funding that is not available for the country’s survival is 289 billion dollars. Think about it. There are 289 billion dollars in the country to cover the deficit. What is this number made up of? First. This is the total deficit of the total budget in 2014, which is 71.6 billion dollars. The other one. These are the so - called inflatable incomes of the State budget of Ukraine, which were offered by the government of Azarov and which could not be achieved, since they were inadequate economic indicators. The country fell, and they showed that the economy would grow. Industry was shrinking, and they showed that industry was growing. The total cost is 34 billion dollars. Third. This is the loss of social funds due to the miscalculated macroeconomic base of 2.9 billion dollars. Four. That's what we've been meeting with city mayors and they've been asking questions -- where's their money? I report: the money of the territorial communities in 2014 is actually zero, as last year the money of the territorial communities and special funds was stolen by the government of Azarova-Januković. This amount of money in a single treasury account that is not available amounts to 79.8 billion dollars. Third. These are so-called tax administration problems. It's two digits. The first figure is the overpaid taxes and assemblies, namely the income tax. So just so you know, Ukrainian companies paid 2 years in advance for a total income tax of 37.3 billion dollars. The second block is the one that refers to the unpaid tax on the added value. In Ukrainian companies, negotiable funds were collected and no refund was paid for the added value of 21.6 billion dollars. In particular, I would like to point out that there are cases in the courts for additional withdrawals from the State budget of Ukraine for about 30 billion more dollars of value added tax. A large part of this was a fictitious VAT and this was one of the schemes for dissipating funds from the budget when fictitious firms submitted a tax return declaration to the Tax Administration for an added value that no one had ever paid. Next. These are the problems of Naftogazu NAK. We've calculated the problems of Naftogazu from the point of view that from April 1, the price of gas by the Russian Federation will be set at $480 per thousand cubic meters. In fact, the price of natural gas delivered from the Russian Federation will be doubled. The total current deficit, I would stress that the current NAC "Naftogazu" deficit in Ukraine will be 33.4 billion dollars. Next, 9.2 billion dollars is what's left of the so-called imbalance in local budgets. They can be divided into 3 blocks: that's 5.2 billion unbalanced local budgets, 2.3 is government debt services related to the devaluation of the national monetary unit, and 1.7 billion is compensation for heat tariffs. Thus, in 2014 alone, the country lacks 289 billion dollars — almost identical amounts of the state budget for the current year. The same amount is lacking as all the incomes and congregations that will take place in 2014. If this happens to any company, to any legal person, it means that such a legal person should declare his bankruptcy. The Ukrainian government will not let the country go bankrupt. And it's with this package that we've come to Parliament to make this package of very unpopular, very complicated, hard reforms that we should have done not yesterday and not the day before yesterday, but over the last 20 years, that is now being proposed to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Is this bill ideal? Of course it's not perfect. How can you come up with an ideal law when 300 billion dollars just aren't from where to get it? When 70 billion dollars were spent in offshore areas in three years. But these are the things and steps that Ukraine is obliged to take in the current year to bring about a renewed economic growth in 2015 and 2016. I'll start with the macroeconomic indicators listed. We spoke and will speak only the truth. As I just reported to you about the actual amount of the gap in Ukraine's budget, so I want to make clear what macroeconomic indicators we're predicting for the current year. First. We're predicting a 3 percent drop in gross domestic product. And it's only going to be if we accept the package that the government has introduced. If these laws are not passed, we predict the default and we predict negative 10 percent of the gross domestic product. The other one. We really appreciate the inflation situation. In the current year, the inflation rate will be 12 to 14 percent depending on how we stabilize the currency exchange rate and what effect administrative prices will have in the Ukrainian economy. Third. We see that we have the main risks of macroeconomic forecasting. The first risk is what's called energy. If gas prices rise twice as much, it will have very complex consequences for the entire Ukrainian economy and the Ukrainian population. Such a fee for Ukrainian independence is a doubling of Russia's energy tariff. The other one. We predict that the Russian Federation will also close the volume of bilateral trade during this year. And this could have an additional negative effect of minus one percent of the gross domestic product growth. Four. Everything will depend on how quickly and quickly the Ukrainian Parliament supports the initiatives taken by the government. If we vote on these initiatives today, it means that funds will come to Ukraine during the month to stabilize the macrofinancial situation. I'm talking about loans: the International Monetary Fund, the European Investment Bank, the European Development and Reconstruction Bank and the World Bank. In particular, I would like to highlight in this macro-financial picture three key state monopolies, which are also in a virtually insolvent state. As noted earlier, NAC Naftogaz Ukraine's deficit in the current year is 33.4 billion. However, the total debt of the National Stock Exchange Company Naftogaz Ukraine, in addition to 33 billion, to creditors amounts to $7.7 billion as of today, almost 85 billion dollars. The other one. A company like the Kravutodore has engaged and hasn't returned a total of 37 billion dollars. Four. A company like the Railroad took loans and didn't pay back an extra 24 billion. Up to 289 billion dollars that I just told you, we have to add the quasi-fiscal deficit of the major monopolies that have just been noted, NAC "Skravutododor" and "Scrollroads". The total is another 140 billion dollars. Now I can't give you a final picture of all the other state companies. We just didn't have time to do the audit of hundreds of state-owned companies, where they were assigned, where they took the loans and stole the loans, how they stole the loans that were involved in the state guarantees that were involved in the state budget. So we can now boldly state that the fiscal deficit, which consists of a fiscal gap of 289 billion dollars and a quasi-fiscal deficit, which consists of government debt, has already passed over 500 billion. In particular, I would like to stay in the position of gold reserves and state debt. A simple and clear schedule. On January 1, 2011, the National Bank of Ukraine owned a gold reserve of $34.6 billion, consisting of dollars, euros, francs, pounds, sterling, and gold. Why the Land’s Gold Stocks? To pay for import contracts, to buy gas, and to keep the exchange rate in the country. 34 billion was a figure that was acceptable for the so-called macroeconomic stability of at least three months of imports. It hasn't been two years since there were only $14 billion left. During the last month, we have kept the rate of gold reserves and their volume constant. $20 billion was not just spent, it was burned by the government and the National Bank: spending abroad and fictitiously maintaining stability in the country, including maintaining exchange rates. So the government's gross assets that were in the National Bank, and that's $35 billion in dollars, fell by $20 billion. We've become poorer as a country for an additional $20 billion. But there was a "wonderful" solution to how to maintain and pay social payments: not because of economic growth, not because of deregulation, not because of the fight against corruption, not because of the creation of conditions for job creation, but because of the inclusion of loans in foreign creditors. Here's the growth graph as the loans went up. If the ratio of debt to GDP was 36 percent in 2011, Ukraine’s debt to foreign and domestic creditors had doubled over the past three years. A $37 billion loan was made. The total amount of debt today exceeds 800 billion dollars and has practically reached a critical level, as a reminder, a critical level, in line with the European Union’s requirements, is 60 percent of the government debt in terms of gross domestic product. We've already reached 53. Dear Members of Parliament, now what must be done. Let's give it up for the decisions to be made, it's going to be hard for us to hear, but there's no other option. Either these decisions will be made, or Ukraine will be a bankrupt country, and in Ukraine there will be a default -- just two options. So I insist solely on the first option, and I apologize for all the previous governments, for everything that's been going on for 20 years. Because one step at a time, we went there. But these processes accelerated in 2011 when corruption took the lead in looting and plundering the country at an incredible pace. I will report separately to Parliament what was happening at the Ministry of Revenue and Assembly, what was happening at the customs office. Do you know what the electronic system of the Ministry of Income and Assembly was used for? Not to make taxes, but to know who makes what money, who in what square, as they were called, how much money they wash and control whether or not they took that amount to the minister. That's where the country came in, buying gold bars, pulling hundreds of billions out of the government pocket and actually stealing the future of Ukraine and our children. And it's up to us now whether we're going to make these decisions -- and save the country, or whether we're not going to stop the country's bankruptcy in any way. So in the first step, we have to cut the fiscal gap by 48.5 billion. We've divided that into two parts. The first is an increase in the revenue of the State budget by 24.7 billion. And the second is a reduction in the cost of the State budget, including a reduction of 23.8 billion dollars in social programmes. I'm sorry there's no Party of Regions here. I wanted to talk to her. They represent big business. And I publicly say from this rostrum: we're increasing taxation on the big monopoly business. [[Applause]] What is it? There will be a double increase in the rent for useful fossils. [[Applause]] We're well aware that there's going to be an uproar that's going to shut down businesses that are going to cut jobs. I am responsible for each number and I am ready to answer for it. We're raising the corresponding rents twice, and we're clearly saying that this will not affect the competitiveness of the Ukrainian mining complex, as such tariffs are compatible with those in competitive markets, including the Russian Federation. The other one. We raise the price for oil and gas condensate. State monopolies or companies, where the state owned 50 plus 1 percent, should also share with Ukraine. And once again, this resource is enough, and it doesn't affect their financial performance. Large monopoly companies are obliged to pay in the budget. That's how it's gonna be! Third. I also realize that the alcohol and tobacco foreheads are about to rise so that they do not raise the appropriate excise duties. There has been a discussion in the Ukrainian Parliament over the past few years that excises on tobacco, beer and alcohol cannot be increased, because this will also affect job creation. I don't think that's going to affect job creation, but the amount of drinking alcoholism that's in the country is going to make it sad. That amount of smoked cigarettes and the virtually destroyed health of Ukrainians is unbelievable. We do not have a single system of the Ministry of Health to treat and rescue Ukrainians. [[Applause]] We raise excise rates by taking the figures that the lobbyists gave to the alcohol and tobacco companies, and I've counted them differently and I'd like to offer you simple and understandable figures. And so. A bottle of beer cost 8 bucks a day. After raising the excise duty, it will cost as much as 8.50. Do you think it's catastrophic? [[B in m in s a l in]] No, it's not. The other one. A pack of cigarettes cost 15 bucks. When the excise is lifted, it will cost 16 dollars. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear friends! I just reported it to you. I'll just clap if you vote for more. Third. A bottle of alcohol. Just not the one I was showing at a government meeting where there was a special excise stamp, think about it. By the way, we're going to have a criminal case on excise stamps. I'm not ready to report all the information right now, but there were two excise stamps on bottles of vodka sold in Ukraine last year. One excise stamp, which seems to be about paying the excise duty that no one paid, and another excise stamp was for the tax department and the internal affairs authorities, which meant the following: no one has the right to approach this product. That's what alcohol is all about. A bottle of vodka cost 32 bracelets, and it will cost 35 bracelets. We have to drink less, we have to play sports. [[Applause]] Next, dear colleagues. There was a discussion about how to translate tax-added tax into the general system of the entire agro-industry sector. We realize that if we translate the entire APC into a general tax system, it's not just a very serious blow, but it's going to be used by our political opponents very seriously against it. So we decided in the current year not to transfer all the APCs to the general VAT system. However, we were approached by the European Business Association, the American Chamber of Commerce and a number of business associations to set taxes on the added cost of grain exports. Let me remind you what happened. This is the 20 percent that no company and no exporter has paid for the budget. It was just a bare wage. When farmers bought grain, they passed it through their own base company, where 20 percent of VAT was not budgeted. Then, through the big trader, they went to the customs office, declared and exported this grain, and then, in addition, they got 20 percent from the budget, not from the peasants, but from the pockets of the exporting company. That's why we're offering to keep the tax on the added cost of the grain export operation. There's nothing to do with peasants. Third. And here I am addressing all the members of Parliament. There are many people to whom this legislative initiative will be extended. The government considers it necessary to impose a tax on the rich. We've been looking at a few options, including one option was income taxation, I'm stressing, deposit revenue, not just deposits, like someone started it, but just deposits income. Yesterday, for example, I spoke to Radek Sikorski, who is the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Poland, in all EU member states passive income is taxed. What is happening now in Ukraine. There's a deposit, we put it in a bank. The bank pays the passive income of 25 percent of the year. No one pays any taxes from this income. And more than that, if the interest on the deposit is 25 percent, tell me, what's the real stake in the economy? Forty. Is that logical? I mean, the bank's got to make some money. So this is, of course, unacceptable. But in the current circumstances, I want you to hear it clearly. In the current circumstances, introducing taxation of income from passive transactions in banking institutions means that it will also be used for the purpose of saying that they took deposits. So we decided in the current year not to impose income tax on bank deposits. But what we offer. We're actually proposing a progressive scale for citizens' income. One who earns more than 300,000 dollars will pay a tax of 20 percent. One who earns more than 500,000 dollars will pay a tax of 25 percent. This is about taxation in the country as a whole of about 300,000 Ukrainian citizens. These 300,000 citizens of Ukraine own a financial resource that accounts for 60 percent of Ukraine’s total assets. So the government turns to the next one. 1.7 percent of rich Ukrainians should pay taxes to make 98 percent of Ukrainians feel that social justice has come. [[Applause]] Dear Members of Parliament, there are still two dozen different kinds of legislative initiatives. Once again, we're not pretending to be genius. We realize that there are no good decisions in this situation. In this situation, there are only the right decisions. And if we're going to agree with you in the process of discussing these bills on the need for one or the other clauses, but if we keep the basics of both the sequester and the increase in income, we're ready to talk about it. The entire government will meet with every faction to discuss the issues that concern you. Now, about the unpopular things that will also be brought to Parliament. The first is about living minimum and minimum wage. From the point of view of the decline in GDP by 3 percent and the decrease in industrial production, and the reduction of the Ukrainian economy, the government should have done as it did in Greece and Italy. This is to reduce the minimum wage and reduce the cost of living. But we realize that this size is so small that it's impossible to reduce it in the current situation if we didn't want to. However, we officially state that during 2014, minimum living standards are minimum wages and the minimum wage will not change, we will not lower or raise the minimum wage. So in 2014 the same level of minimum wage and minimum subsistence wage that is set at 1 in the current year. The other one. What we were able to do. Questions about indexing. Of course, there is no index resource. But we've made decisions and we've invented funds to index the level of inflation of pensions for Ukrainian citizens. Therefore, price increases will be offset by an index to be carried out by the government. Third. We're reducing so-called capital costs. Let me remind you what the capital costs have been going on over the last three years. For example, capital costs went towards the construction of the prosecutor’s office, the construction of police and law enforcement facilities. We don't need that kind of capital expenditure, and we don't have that kind of capital expenditure to finance. So there's a significant reduction in the amount of money that went to repair the government and that didn't have anything to do with the growth of the economy. Third. The government has decided to reduce the total number of government and executive authorities by 10 percent.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-27-m0.u32	We're downsizing about 24,000 officials out of 249,000. This is the first step that will allow: on the one hand, to reduce the costs of the public authority, on the other hand, in constitutional reform, which will provide for my position as Prime Minister, which should include the liquidation of district government administrations, the creation of executive committees, the de-centralization of functions that do not belong to the central government and the transfer of these functions in places, we will also reduce the central authorities of the state executive authority by up to 20 percent. But we need to carry out constitutional reform without delay and pass on what belongs to them. And that's power in places and authority in places. [[Applause]] Now, with regard to additional expenditure on government authorities. We cut the costs for the President's Administration, the government, the Supreme Council, for the authorities of the state. We sell 50 percent of the entire car park that belongs to the authorities. We are announcing the privatization of all public property objects in the so - called State Administration. Ducky, factories, and other property that is not needed by the State should be sold and we should not finance from the pockets of tax payers the maintenance of former officials. That's why it ends once and for all with the financing of reservations, like Concha-Sasp and Desert Water. Tax payers will no longer maintain these reservations. We're taking out all the money and turning to whoever lives there, please, for your own money, keep security, please pay for your own money for housing and utility services, and for your own money, buy land under these objects at a market price. Now, honourable colleagues, which will also be done further. You're talking about what's called super big pensions. This is when the judges of the Constitutional Court themselves decided that if the Ukrainian received a pension of 2,000 dollars, somehow the judges could receive a pension of 30 and 50,000 dollars. We suggest that more than 10,000 dollars should be taxed on such pensions. And we suggest that we bring the pension system into line for prosecutors, judges, law enforcement personnel as well as for all Ukrainian citizens. [[Applause]] From 80 to 70 percent of the billing base. Now for the coal sector. I'd like to make a note of it. I was approached by one of the distinguished representatives of the East who worked his entire life in the coal sector. He turned to just one, of the 13 billion dollars that go to a so-called coal grant, he thinks 10 billion are being stolen, and only 3 billion are coming to coal miners. And for our grades, it's actually happening. We realize that if we halve coal support now, it means that political opponents will take advantage of it, take out miners, say they don't pay their wages. So at this point, we're making the next decision. Of the 13 billion that have been, support will leave 12 billion. But I'm going to give you one digit to figure out what we're going to do. If you shut down all the government mines, just shut them down, release all the miners and tell them, "Dear miners, sit at home, don't go down in a fight, don't risk your life, just sit at home. And we're going to take the amount of the grant that the state budget makes and we're going to divide between all of you." Do you know how many go out on one miner? $80,000 a year! So, now politically, I emphasize, this is a political decision. We're going to leave 12 billion as a reserve, I'm going to go to Donetsk, I'm going to meet all the miners, I'm going to show you these numbers, I'm going to come to Parliament, and I'm going to tell you how much of the 12 billion we're going to give to the miners directly, and how much of that amount is going to be removed and sent to the budget for the development of the depressed regions and for the creation of jobs. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, now from a very difficult and unpleasant point of view, but I'll tell you the same thing. It's about energy prices. Once again, the Russian Federation is raising twice the price of gas from April 1. Russia is the main country that extracts the largest amount of energy. Now I'm going to show you what's going on with prices for natural gas for the population in the importing and exporting countries. I didn't take Germany, I didn't take Britain, so those countries that you say are different living standards. I took countries like: Russia, which extracts the largest quantity of petroleum products, Armenia, Bulgaria And so today, the price of gas for the population in Ukraine is $84 per thousand cubic meters, and the price of gas in Russia, which sells us the gas that produces the largest amounts of gas and that can suck to its citizens, is $128 per thousand cubic meters. The Russian price of $44 is more expensive than the Ukrainian price. Now I'm going to give numbers like Armenia, in Armenia the price of $380 gas, in Romania 325, in Bulgaria 605, in Estonia 562, in Latvia 558, in Lithuania 528, in Moldova 470. We can accept it, we can't accept it, just a country that doesn't have the required amount of gas, and even if it has, unlike Russia, it can't do so irresponsiblely, primarily to the country itself and to our children. This price policy on energy tariffs has led to the bankruptcy of NAC Naftogaz Ukraine, which has led to the incredible debts that are today, and has actually led to the pre-defoult situation in the country. So we have no choice but to tell Ukraine the truth. In today's conditions, we are obliged to raise energy tariffs so that the country doesn't go bankrupt in order to finally restore the state's energy balance. And to at least bring these prices and tariffs into line, not to an economically sound level, but at least to neighbouring Russia, which has its own gas and oil, but sells it by 40 percent more than Ukraine to its population. In particular, I'll show you the heat tariffs, we take the average fare in Ukraine, it's 84 bracelets. We're taking Russia's average tariff, it's worth, sorry, $127 per thousand cubic meters. Now the heat, we take the average fare in Ukraine for one gigacalorie, it's 22.7 now we take Russia, it's 39.15. If someone has other numbers, another argument, we're willing to listen. Now it's time to tell the truth and do the complicated things, and that's why we're forced to raise energy tariffs today that haven't been done in almost 10 years. But we realize that just raising tariffs doesn't mean that people will pay. So we have an incredible number of poor people, vulnerable people who can't pay, so the government is saying that if we have 1.4 million families, not citizens, and families, as a whole, almost 5 million citizens today, we are implementing the very ambitious programme of support for low-income populations. The total number of households under our social assistance programme is increasing from 1.4 million households to 4 million households. We cover the social assistance program of 30 percent of the Ukrainian population. Each low-income family will receive an additional payment, for housing and utility services, which will be subject to this decision up to 500 dollars. The government made the right decision. [[Applause]] Now, as far as I'm concerned, respectable colleagues, the next steps. We have a debt that I've declared to you. The total amount of the value added tax that no one was going to pay, according to our data, is 21.7 billion dollars. Negotiations with our creditors are very difficult. But we're fighting for every number to make you understand, because in the state that Ukraine is today, no one wants to give it money. But we have found approaches and conviction to explain what we need to do because we are focused on real reforms. I want to make a separate point for you that no one in this room should say that these are the requirements of the IMF. But no, it's a requirement of time, it's a requirement of a moment before the country's default and bankruptcy. So when we go back to the question of tax compensation for the added value, we're definitely against the scheme that was worked out last year, namely, the issuance of so-called treasury bills under the table that they wanted -- so they gave it to who they didn't want -- that's why they didn't issue it. We're eliminating the treasury billing tool. [[Applause]] What do we propose? We suggest that we immediately invest the money in the Ukrainian economy. Do we now have money to pay back the value added tax? I won't. And we will also tell you the truth: there is no money in the penalty. Of course, it's February. Until the new authorities arrived, the Ministry of Revenue and Assembly quickly wrote down 5 billion dollars for VAT reimbursement, for firms that had no VAT compensation. This was still stolen in a few days by 5 billion dollars. Our offer. This tool has been used in Ukraine since 2004. We offer publicly, transparently, to every company that has an unrepentant VAT to issue, not bills, but government-guaranteed bonds of domestic government loans, under which entities of entrepreneurial activity will go to banks and receive cheap and long loans. So we're going to return to the economy about 20 billion dollars that were stolen and removed from the economy because of VAT non-reimbursable. The other one. As for the positive so-called package. We've had talks with a number of international financial organizations. If we make the decisions that are announced to you today, we think that during 2014 and 2015 we will implement a very ambitious investment programme. What's going to make this program happen? Let me tell you a little bit about how much money we're talking about. I can't now divulge the figure that will be received in 2014 from the International Monetary Fund, but I'll tell you, in general, how much our package will allow to invest in the Ukrainian economy. So the World Bank's budget loan is $1 billion. The cost that the European Union allocates for the so-called macro-financial assistance is $2 billion. The Senate, the United States Congress, allocates $1 billion for macrofinancial assistance. $200 million is an additional credit resource issued by the Canadian government. 100 million dollars is what it says. proposes the government of Japan. 100 million dollars announced yesterday by the Polish government. 200 million dollars that the World Bank will give up on so-called project activities. $200 million is the European Development and Reconstruction Bank. 170 million dollars is the European Investment Bank. And $400 million is an international financial corporation. In addition, we have agreed with our creditors to leave an economic support tool like state guarantees for investment projects. That's 25 billion dollars that we can put under the agri-industrial and industrial sectors. The total quantity that we see of economic support is going to be $13.6 billion. If this package is accepted. Now separately on projects that we would like to implement in 2014-2015. I'll stop at basics. Modernization of the gas pipeline. Our gas pipelines. This is a joint project between the EBRD and the European Investment Bank. We're going to include 308 million euros in this project. Next. Construction of a metropolis in Kharkiv Under this project during 2014 and 2015, the European Investment Bank, the EBRD, is spending 300 million euros. Next. Support for the reform of the wholesale electricity market. The cost of the European Development and Reconstruction Bank is 70 million. The next project is the extension of the Kahovsky GES. We don't have the final figure, but the International Bank for Development and Reconstruction is ready to lend. Next. LEP Lutsk-Ternople is also a project of the European Bank for Development and Reconstruction. Next. The development of the electricity network in the south of Ukraine, where we have the biggest problems and where we have the biggest loss. That's up to 40 percent of the loss in the country's energy networks. The European Development and Reconstruction Bank. Next. The completion of the construction of the metropolis in Dnipropetrovsk The European Investment Bank is ready to finance, it's 152 million euros. Next. Municipal program in Ukraine. This is what mayors of cities, small towns need to support local self-government and projects in these small towns. This is 400 million euros. And the main credit for Ukraine's climate change is also a European Investment Bank programme that has a bearing on ecology. That's another 200 million euros. Once again, we have a credit resource that can be issued under the state guarantees of the central government -- it's 25 billion dollars. In particular, I would like to point out a policy that we believe should be practiced by the Central Bank. The National Bank is an independent institution and the government has no right and will never dictate the policies of the Central Bank. But in our opinion, 25 percent interest rates and 35 percent credit rates are unacceptable. We encourage the National Bank to start the widest commercial bank refinancing programme at 14 percent. This will allow you to send a resource to the economy at a rate of not more than 17-18 percent. With inflation of 12-14 percent, honourable colleagues, the cost of the resource will be just about 4-5 percent as it is in the member countries of the European Union. Prices went up by 14, credit rate 18. The actual pay is 4 percent. We're working on this program with the National Bank of Ukraine. Dear colleagues! There are a number of things that involve reformatting the program to help families with their children. On the one hand, we're changing the sums for the first, second and third children, but on the other hand, we're increasing the payment once, and we're going from three years to four years. The Minister of Social Policy will report this to you. There's a lot of things I'm saying that won't cheer us up, but we're going to have our kids applaud us. Because we're going to save the country, we're going to save the Ukrainian economy. And in 2015 and beyond, Ukraine will emerge from the decline and demonstrate economic growth, employment, increasing social standards and the country's high economic standards. Please support and save the country. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-27-m0.u33	Thank you, Arseny Petrovich. Dear colleagues! Arsenius Petrovich, one minute. Come on, I see a lot of hands on questions. One question from the factions. Colleagues, come on, I see a lot of hands. One question from factions and I'm going to give a few non-fractionals. Please sign from factions on the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-27-m0.u34	There are two choices I want to offer you. There's the first option. Now I'm going to answer all the questions. There's a second option. We've given you these kinds of billing Talmuds. In order for every question and my answer, first of all, to be professional, I would very much ask you, please read the bill. I'm going to each faction, to every MP group. I'll report on every question you have. Ready to cooperate. Ready to do everything we can today to enact these laws. So, Alexander Valentinovich, I'm asking you to move on to a specific job. Come on, I've gone through the factions, and here in Parliament I'm going to answer all the questions after members of Parliament see specific bills. Can I ask you that?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-27-m0.u35	Dear colleagues, I find the Prime Minister's logical suggestion. Yes or no? Let's make a deal with the next one. Now, colleagues, we're taking a break until 4:00. Now, now I see. Colleagues, calm down. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, calm down. Take it easy. Come on, please, calm down. I have been approached by many deputies, insisting that we consider two important bills of 4378/1, 4500 today, which refer to restoring the confidence of the system of justice. This applies to our suitors to keep their pay and their permanent place of employment, which is very important for their security. And we can put it in the order of the day, the government agrees, the utilization congregation. [[B in m in s a l in]] Guys, relax. But, colleagues, we can only do this after we have passed the two laws passed by the government. Because without voting for these laws, there is no other legislative regulation at all, because the country is going to default because there is nothing to pay wages and pensions. And that's why, dear colleagues, I appeal to your responsibility, to your civil position. We're going to look at these issues that I've just stressed, today, hopefully, after we vote on these two laws. Now we're calling it a break until 4:00. During this time, I ask the leaders of factions and groups to assemble factions and groups, to gather non-fractional national MPs who want to meet with the Prime Minister and the government. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, 0947, we'll get there, we'll consider it today. Colleagues, I see a lot of people coming out of the hall. We'll put it in the agenda after we vote on government laws. Please calm down, I beg of you. And I'm addressing the committee heads. Dear colleagues, I ask you to assemble committee meetings, the committees responsible for preparing two of these legislative acts. So we can have a 16-hour decision from the profile committees. Thank you, Your Honor. There's a break in 16 hours.
