ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-11-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national MPs! If you'd like to sit in your place of work, we'll have your registration now. Please turn on the "Race" system. [[10:04:36]] There were 253 national deputies registered in the hall. The Supreme Council is starting its work. Dear colleagues, this morning in the city of Donetsk, explosive works were carried out at the Skachinsky Mine. There was a sudden discharge of the gas mixture. Seven miners died. I ask you to honor the moment of silence for the memory of the dead miners. [[A Minute of Silence]] Please sit down. The Cabinet of Ministers, headed by Zyukov’s first Deputy Minister of Energy, is on the scene. Dear colleagues, I ask you to listen to the announcement. In accordance with article 13 of the Law on the Status of People's Deputies, articles 59 and 60 of the Rules of the Supreme Council, according to a personal application, reports the entry of National Deputy Krutiya Vitali Ivanovich into the members of the MP's Faction "ADA". Next, dear colleagues. In accordance with article 60 of the Rules of the Supreme Council, and according to the minutes of the meeting of the deputy faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Association on 4 March, I report on the election of the deputy head of the Freedom faction of the national deputy Pankevitch Oleg Igorovich. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, I inform you that according to this statement and in accordance with part three of article 60 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules on the Exit of the People's Deputies of the People's Republic of Ukraine, Mr. Andrey Pavlovich of the Party of the Regions. As well as the corresponding statement in part three of article 60 of the Supreme Council’s Rules of Procedure, I also report the departure of National Deputy Turmanov Viktor Ivanovich from the Party of the Regions’ parliamentary faction. Dear colleagues, there's a proposal that was announced to the deputies last Friday so that we can hear the MPs with you not in the morning, but at 12:30 a.m. Is there no objection? There's no objection. Now, dear colleagues, we have an hour of questions to the government. And the question of these questions, this hour, is energy security, including pricing policies in the field of fuel and energy. I invite you to the rostrum of the Supreme Council of Minister of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine Yuri Vasilovich Sold. Please. Traditionally, dear colleagues, within 30 minutes there is an opportunity to speak to the minister, 30 minutes to question the minister and cabinet members. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-11-m0.u2	Dear Alexander Valentinovich, distinguished national MPs! First of all, to answer your questions, I want to say that the tragic incident that took place on the mine today was due to the neglect of basic safety rules. The people were to be within a radius of more than a mile [1 km]. Regrettably, they were in the radius of the explosion. An investigation is under way. As a result of the investigation, hard conclusions will be drawn. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to report on the situation that has arisen with the gas supply. You know that Russia has presented Ukraine with a political gas price of about $480 per thousand cubic meters. Of course, Ukraine cannot pay for gas at such a political, economically unfavourable price for Ukraine. So today we are conducting intensive negotiations in the European Commission on reverse deliveries to Ukraine. First of all, we have open supply corridors from Poland, Hungary. But these are small volumes of gas supply, about 20 million meters of cubic gas per day. Today, we have arranged with the Slovak side to conduct appropriate negotiations and to open a reverse gas supply from Slovakia. This supply can be made up to 200 million cubic meters per day. However, there are various political issues, including the Slovak side, that we are also going to solve. And on April 15th, I will be in Slovakia, where we will conduct appropriate negotiations. Ladies and gentlemen, the questions I've been asked. With regard to the question from the faction of the Party of Regions: what resources will cover the damage to NAC Naftogaz Ukraine with the corresponding increase in gas prices and the increase in dollar rates? According to the Cabinet of Ministers' passed decree, certain issues of NAC "Naftogaz" activities are being corrected by the National Commission on Electricity Regulation for Industrial Budget Institutions, depending on the gas input, the imported gas. So today the prices for gas are set for industrial consumers, and this is also a question from the faction of the Party of Regions, at 5,000 264.9 bracelets per thousand meters cubic. This price takes into account the price of gas input at $390.81 in the United States. The price will also be adjusted in accordance with the changes in the course of this month. With regard to price increases for the population, the Cabinet Order was adopted accordingly, and the relevant decisions of the National Electricity Regulatory Commission were adopted, on average the price for the population was raised by 56 percent in different categories of consumers. The most vulnerable groups are adequately protected by appropriate subsidies and are close. Millions of families will not feel an increase in gas prices at all, as an additional compensation will be made for such vulnerable families to pay practically the same price for the gas they paid and to increase the price. As for questions from the political factions of Vitalia Calla. Regarding the valuation of the cost of Ukraine’s gas transport system, which was carried out by Baker Tilli Ukraine. Unfortunately, I can't make out the estimate of the value of NAC Naftogaz Ukraine for today because these data are confidential and they were provided for in the corresponding contract with this company, and they're not sounding today. But what I'm saying is that there's three ways of assessing it, they're different from each other, depending on how our gas transport system gets loaded. It's about whether or not they turned it on. whether the Eurocommission includes Ukraine's proposals to reduce dependence on Russian gas supply, I would like to say that Ukraine is not a member of the European Union, but we have been negotiating intensively with the European Commission on energy security and, in general, the energy security of the European Union as part of transporting gas to European countries over the past month. This again. We have proposed to the European Commission and to European gas companies today to do what is now going on, to put gas into Ukrainian gas shelters, because today we have free capacities that can be used at about 15 billion meters of cubic gas. We have also proposed to the Eurocommission the participation of Ukraine in promising projects related to such a gas corridor that is being worked today in the Euro-Commission, this is the North-South corridor with the corresponding participation of Ukraine in this gas corridor, of course, using the power of our gas depots. And for today, the current issue that I've been talking about is the issue of reverse gas supplies to Ukraine, because the volume of reverse gas supplies to Ukraine, as well as the amount of gas incubation to gas shelters, will depend on the normal transit of gas to European countries. Today, the European Commission is working on an appropriate package to help Ukraine improve energy security. This package provides financial assistance. This package also foresees an increase in the volume of gas to Ukraine, and it also provides for appropriate measures of solidarity between European gas transport operators with Ukraine's transport operator, Ukrattransgas, in case of an unforeseeable occurrence. A situation that is now predictable, such as the reduction in gas supply to Ukraine, solidarity must be demonstrated that Russia cannot increase the corresponding gas flows across the northern flow, along the Yamal-Europe pipeline. As for the question. Regarding the issue of the introduction of special gas billing accounts today, I would like to say that 47 current accounts have been opened today by special use for the calculation of the cost of gas consumed by heat-generating operators. 48 current accounts have been opened using a special mode of accounting for the costs of natural gas consumed by heat-generating entities, such as modular boilers, and some 200 distribution accounts have been opened to receive funds for gas calculations in gas-distributed enterprises, these are "Obgasys". This action allowed today to raise population accounts to 97 per cent, budget institutions to 100 per cent, industrial consumers to 100 per cent, as well. Today, this mechanism is working effectively. And we also continued with the corresponding bill, which was submitted to the Supreme Council, supported by the government, for the implementation of the distribution accounts in order to account for the costs that come from the thermal energy to the thermal companies and then channel these funds through an algorithm approved by the Cabinet of Ministers to NAC Naftogaz Ukraine. And I think that's also going to significantly increase the discipline of payments and the percentage of heat-supply companies that are currently very low and at 27 percent. As for the question of how the government is going to control the proper use of the funds that Naftogaz will receive as a result of rising gas prices. What I'm saying right now is that the authority that sets the appropriate tariffs for gas transport, the appropriate tariffs for gas-producing enterprises, is the "Naftogazu NAC Crushing". They set up the tariff structure and carry out the checks and use of the funds accordingly. As of today, Minpalevenergo is also conducting an appropriate audit of the companies Skrtransgas, Crushing and other enterprises that are part of the Naftogazu NAC structure. As far as the price of the population is concerned. I've already said, this question is repeated, on average, the population price increased by 56 percent, and the biggest increase in size is, of course, those consumers who consume quite a lot of gas consumption, which is more than 12,000 cubic meters, more than 6,000 cubic meters. What the government is doing to protect the most vulnerable population, I've already told you today. The question is when the Ministry's work plan for 2014 will be published and distributed. This plan should have been further developed last year. However, given the change in government and the situation that occurred in Minpalvenego was issued within a week of my arrival at work, a proper order for early and short-term measures to stabilize the state in the fuel-energy complex. This plan primarily provides for strict approaches and a review of the relevant agreements that are made for material and technical security. This plan foresees the removal of any intermediaries in coal supply schemes for the generating companies. This plan provides for the exclusive supply of coal from state-owned coal companies for the generation of coal from Ukraine. This plan also takes a number of steps that will allow our coal mines to be processed today directly in factories, in enrichment factories, and to receive, for example, the appropriate coal varieties in the anthracite group. Instead of giving these classes to mediators, they sell the most high - quality varieties of coal themselves. In addition, the plan provides for a series of legislative initiatives that are already in place today, these are bills that are now in the Supreme Council. It's a so-called green tariff law that completely takes away the unwarranted advantages given to solar power generators. It's also the bill that I've already talked about that will strengthen the discipline of heatcommune energy payments for the implementation of distribution accounts. We're also preparing appropriate changes to the Power Market Principles Act, which today should remove the monopolism in the electricity market. It's also done, it's planned, and we've already made appropriate references to the Antimonopoly Committee on the monopolistic structures that are now operating in the fuel-energy sector. Of course, this plan also provides for the revitalization of our work in finding and diversifying sources of energy supply in Ukraine. First of all, the fulfilment of the requirements, the commitments that Ukraine has taken upon its accession to the Energy Community, is the fulfilment of the requirements of the third energy package, this is the reform of NAC Naftogaz according to the requirements of the third energy package, the establishment of transparent activities of this company. And of course, we've activated our work to connect Ukraine's electricity system to European electricity networks. We are doing this work together with the Republic of Moldova. There are a number of other bills that are now being prepared and submitted to the Supreme Council: on the ratification of credit agreements that will provide the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development with funds to increase the safety of nuclear power plants. As for the issue of what is currently impeding the signing of the agreement with Slovakia on the reverse use of GTS and the purchase of European gas, I can honestly say that today this issue is not in the technical plane, as the Slovak side said earlier, which proposed to build an additional gas pipeline and to get a small volume of gas supply -- that's about 8 billion meters of cubic gas -- the question is more in the political plane, in the legal plane of the Slovak side's relationship with Gazprom. And this is actually what the Slovak side confirmed at our last meeting in Brussels. So we decided on April 15th, together with the Slovak side, to go directly to the gas station Velke-Kapushana in Slovakia, to explore fully the technical side of the issue, to study the documentation. According to our estimates and data from our technical experts, we can do reverse gas supply to Ukraine up to 20 billion meters per year without any technical refuelling or technical refuelling. It's a significant amount, but again, I think it's a political issue. And here we have the help of the European Commission, because there are relevant laws in Europe in the energy sector that must be implemented by all the countries of the European Union. Ukraine has made the same commitments regarding the implementation of European Union legislation in the energy field of Ukraine’s legislation. The question is, when is the government going to file with the Stockholm Court about the annulment of the agreement between the Watt Gazprom and the NAC Naftogaz of Ukraine? So this job has been going on since the first day I showed up in office. We are now thoroughly approaching the preparation of relevant documents to review the unfavourable conditions today in our 2009 contract between NAC Naftogaz and Gazprom. Of course, we involve today those international lawyers who have experience in work, the legal experience of working with companies that have made appropriate demands for Stockholm arbitration in Gazprom. And where Gazprom did not come to arbitration, these issues were settled by the Gazprom Peace Agreement with the European countries that were requiring Gazprom. As for the issue of the "Freedom" faction as to how the fight against mediated structures and price surpluses will be conducted, I have already answered this question in part. That now virtually all intermediate structures have been removed and continue to be removed in the work of our energy companies (I'm finishing up, please), and there will be hard control. And in view of the adoption of the new Procurement Law on tender purchases, these purchases will thus be transparent and controlled by society. Thank you for your attention. I have a question for everyone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-11-m0.u3	Dear colleagues, traditionally, we can now ask additional questions from factions. Please sign up. And then the non-fractionals will also be able to log in. Please sign up for the performance. Turn on the "Race" system. What's the problem? Please log in. Please, National Deputy Pober, strike faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-11-m0.u4	Please pass the word to Paul Rosenck.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-11-m0.u5	Please turn on Paul Rosenck's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-11-m0.u6	Paul Rosenco, Vitaly Caller's Faction. Alexander Valentinovich, we have a question for the entire government, not just the reporter. So the first question. I'd like to ask you first to inform us where the Prime Minister is, the other ministers. We know they're in Donetsk right now, but to let society know that we're not being ignored, and that people are really working on solving the issues that concern our society. And the second question. I am addressing you, Alexander Valentinovich, and the government. To bring government action into line with the Constitution of Ukraine. And their activities, and district administrations. We have a number of government officials and heads of administration, such as Bondarenko, Jarem, Seh, Lunchenko, Odarchenko, Pasinsky, Pishni, Senchenko, Shulga, are national MPs who have failed to exercise their authority and work in the executive branch. It's over.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-11-m0.u7	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-11-m0.u8	It has been two months since these people were actually appointed to executive power. Please and the government, and you, Alexander Valentinovitch, will eventually intervene in this matter, end the coexistence, and implement the Constitution of Ukraine for the non-compensation of these positions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-11-m0.u9	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I inform both our fellow countrymen and the Supreme Council that today, indeed, the Prime Minister, the First Deputy Prime Minister, the Minister of the Interior, the Minister of Social Policy are being deployed in the city of Donetsk, where appropriate meetings will be held both with the assets of the Donetsk region and with the public, and with the representatives of miners to solve the problems that are being discussed in the media, so that we can still have harmony, unity in our country. As for the co-conspirators, I went to the government, to the heads of administration to determine where they wanted to work or in parliament, when they had such important parliamentary mandates, and they couldn't part with them, or they had to give mandates and work in their posts where they were assigned. Please, Dzardanov, the Communist faction, conveys the word to Peter Simonek.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-11-m0.u10	Simonenko, the Communist faction. By meeting the requirements of the International Monetary Fund, you have already increased the price of gas for utilities, i.e. household needs by 56 per cent. Answer the question: Why do you fail to comply with the recommendations of the Company of Ukraine to allow only Ukrainian gas production of 340 grivens per thousand cubic metres for communal needs, i.e. for Ukrainian citizens? You were just talking about the oligarchs' interests, and that's understandable. Let them negotiate for themselves. And they seek out where to buy the gas, and you will provide them with nets only for the supply of gas. Why do you now confuse what is involved in ensuring life for ordinary citizens with the interests of the oligarchs? I, why am I talking about this, respectable citizens of Ukraine? What's going on now? The Oligarchi Ukrainians, who work in the gas market, energy, are interested that Russia has increased the price. Because in gas work, Ukrainian gas is already pumping not 340 bracelets, but 500 dollars apiece. And the second question. Please tell me what time we have left.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-11-m0.u11	Let me finish the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-11-m0.u12	The second question I have is that you didn't answer, how are we going to ensure the energy security of nuclear power plants? For what time do we have the goods that were purchased in Russia, and which naturally provide security, for what time do we have? And where will you be taking fuel for nuclear power plants? Please inform.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-11-m0.u13	Thank you. I'd like to start with the last question, which is because it's a matter of energy security. Today, I would like to report that we are not attaching Russian gas to shelters today. Russia’s gas is not attached to the shelters today. As for that, you asked me, "Why are we putting expensive gas on today?" I'll give you an answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-11-m0.u14	Dear colleagues, calm down, please. Allow the minister to answer the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-11-m0.u15	Yes. Well, if it's a question of why we are, about Ukrainian gas. Yes, the price of Ukrainian gas today, the average price, is 372 bracelets from the company's Crushing Company, buying Ukrainian gas. But for utilities, unfortunately, this gas is not enough. To provide the Ukrainian citizens with heat, the Heatcommunergo company -- and that was always, I wanted to let you know, they're buying about 8 billion meters of cubic gas of imported gas.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-11-m0.u16	I'm asking you not to interfere with the answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-11-m0.u17	Next. Next, I answer your question. So today, and that's true, the population that gets heat from direct combustion in their boilers and hot water, and the population that today gets hot and hot water from central heating systems, should have gas, the price of heat should be gas at the same price. So we've made some mix prices, and today we're bringing up one price gradually. I was talking about social protection measures today. Now, about the fuel resource at our nuclear power plants. We don't have it today.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-11-m0.u18	Allow me to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-11-m0.u19	Yeah, today we don't have any problems supplying fuel to Ukrainian nuclear power plants, all of our jobs are planned. I keep talking to Mr. Kirienko's head about this. There's no action to stop the supply for today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-11-m0.u20	Please, people's deputy Turmanov.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-11-m0.u21	Please pass the word to Goncharov.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-11-m0.u22	Please turn on the microphone of the national MP, Goncharov.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-11-m0.u23	Thank you very much. Dear Yuri Vasilevich! Two questions. First. The Donbass Central Shaters are hoping and waiting for you to confirm that no more State support will change towards a reduction. This is necessary for the stable operation of miners and for them to carry out their preparations for work in a financial balance. And the second is the miners. Yesterday we agreed with the Prime Minister and he agreed to redistribute the article at a cost of State support to an article on technical re-arrangement of security technology. It's 240 million. 200 of them, 180 million on miners, and 60 on hardware.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-11-m0.u24	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we are working very closely with you on how we can balance this reduction in budget spending. In terms of self-sustainment, we have decided that we will find additional resources. They're going to get these resources from extra coal supply to our generating companies. These additional resources are also provided by the removal of those mediocre schemes that have worked. And we will fully finance those assignments that have been cut short by appropriate budget funding. As for the capital expenditure, we will, indeed, again, translate from the corresponding self-sustainment articles into the article "Capital Building and Development." We discussed the amount with you in the first place — 150 million. If it takes 240, let's think about this 240, and if we do. It's really, it's necessary, so we'll find these funds. And let the miners know that these funds will be received. Rather, the funds will be spent on capital construction, and appropriate calculations will be made by the miners. I've been seeing them recently, and we've agreed in certain places to pay off the debt both on wages and under such a harsh budget cut that they can work properly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-11-m0.u25	Please turn on the microphone of the Momot People’s Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-11-m0.u26	National MP Momot, 27th constituency, Dnipropetrovsk. Dear Alexander Valentinovich, please give the floor to the national MP, Voropeyev.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-11-m0.u27	Please turn on the microphone of the national MP Voropeyeva.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-11-m0.u28	Mr. Secretary, I have two brief questions for you. Question one. For a long time, oilgas-Ukraine as a black hole has been sucking up money from Gosbudget Ukraine, and this tradition of Arbuzov continues, and you, six billion, are once again pumping into the constitutional capital of Oilgas Ukriani. Is it time to show financial reporting to Ukraine's Petroleumgas, as is believed by law, audited, of course, to the entire population of Ukraine, so that we can understand where the money is going and why it is constantly lacking? And second question: Yesterday, a law was re-voted under which Naftegaz Ukraine was again granted tax benefits as a monopoly in Ukraine. You don't think I would.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-11-m0.u29	Let me finish the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-11-m0.u30	Do you not think that if the Ukrainian Government allowed the direct purchase of gas from suppliers, the price of gas would be lower than it is now?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-11-m0.u31	Thank you for asking. The Honourable People's Deputy in the matter. You're probably talking about the Cabinet of Ministers' decree to increase the statutory capital of NAC "Naftogaz Ukraine", which was adopted quite recently. These inflows were made in 2013 to fill NAC Naftogazu's circulation costs, which are directed exclusively at Russian gas bills. This is last year, I say again. So this was actually confirmed by today's decision that this money was transferred and it was included in the statutory capital. Because there was an additional release of the shares that the Ministry of Finance bought out through. due to intra-loans bonds. As for the VAT premium, at zero VAT on imported gas purchases, yes, it's the benefit of today's Naftogazu, it has to be in the conditions that we're in today's day, and we're going to make and soon as possible the purchase of gas by reverse deliveries in order to reduce the amount of circulation costs necessary for the purchase of gas. This is a decision that has been made because we will conduct gas purchases on reverse deliveries on a timely basis and under conditions that will be offered directly by European gas supply companies, and we plan that this will be the German company RWE and the French gas company.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-11-m0.u32	Please, National MP Blackwill.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-11-m0.u33	Dear Mr. Secretary, I'm sitting here, looking this way, yes, I'm here. I wanted to ask you three such questions. The first question is whether we are ready for an energy war from Russia. So we're completely covered in gas and they're shutting down nuclear fuel supplies. Are we ready to move on to Westinhouse and other gas supplies or economies? And what is being done? You said the number: 200 million cubic meters of gas per day. Do you confirm this number? If so, it turns out that in a year it is about 70 billion — that is, it solves all our problems through Slovakia. And the third question. Yet, perhaps in solving the energy problem, the main thing is the energy economy, as the whole world does. And what does your ministry do in this regard? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-11-m0.u34	Thank you, Your Honor, for asking. As for what is being done today in order to work under the conditions of the economic war announced to us today by the Russian Federation. First of all, we're working on reverse gas supplies today. And of course, not everything is so smooth in our supply of gas from Slovakia. I'm sorry, I named the figure 200 million in Slovakia today -- this is the amount that can be realized today by the power of this gas pipeline system in Slovakia, which today is half loaded, half-loaded today -- it's about 100 million cubic meters of today's gas pipelines for the day, as reported to me yesterday by Ukratransgaz. It's a real state. But taking into account the annual volume that was in the past year, for example, about 56 billion gas pipelines were installed in Slovakia. So the free power that we estimate in free power is about 20 billion meters of cubic gas. I'm sorry about that reservation because I said about that total value that goes, 20 billion meters of cubic gas in the corresponding calculation, this is going to divide by 12 and by 30, of course, that smaller quantity, that's close, I'll tell you now. Well, this is going to be about 50 million gas per day. In order for us to be fully capable of taking into account the volume of gas supply that we can make from Poland and Hungary, which is 20 million cubic meters per day. We, for example, can go out and have a heated season. Yet this is a problem. Because.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-11-m0.u35	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-11-m0.u36	Depending on the total amount of gas to be obtained by the countries of Europe. And this amount of total gas, of course, will depend on the supply of Russian gas. So it is very important today that the transit of gas that is being carried out, including through our gas transport system, by Russia, does not crash. And to that end, we are conducting appropriate negotiations with the European Commission, which in general and in complex understands this situation. The supply of nuclear fuel. I don't want to go into the details and possibilities of Westinhouse right now, but we're working on the right questions. And that's what we have. But it must be understood that such a situation will be severely strained and with significant restrictions on gas and electricity supply to Ukraine. Unfortunately, such options are being worked out for us too. As for the measures that are being taken in terms of resource savings. So first of all, this economy under these conditions is going to be aimed at replacing gas with alternative supplies. First of all, it's going to be coal, where it can be applied technologically to our businesses, and of course, oil. All possible options are being worked out. But again, I'm saying, we're still in the middle of the Gazprom talks, because the appropriate Gazprom offers about price and quantity, we've sent out and we're waiting for answers. And also to help the European Union and the European Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-11-m0.u37	Dear colleagues, please turn on the microphone of the People's Deputy Vaschuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-11-m0.u38	Please pass the word to Alexandra Kugel.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-11-m0.u39	Please turn on Alexandra Kugel's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-11-m0.u40	Thank you, Catherine Timothy. Yuri Vasilovich, please tell me, I am the head of the Regulatory and Anti-Monopoly Policy Committee. On several occasions, we invited NCREs on the committee to understand how they tested the value of the services of the monopolists who provide both gas and electricity. And when I hear today that an increase in gas prices affects twice the rate, I realize that's a lie. First. It's different. How can we help you as a minister, or let's make government meetings in part of the discovery, the formation of price by monopolists. Because for today, they put a very large investment component in their tariff each year. Until we tell citizens that the tariff is clear and transparent.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-11-m0.u41	Let me finish the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-11-m0.u42	Thank you, Alexander Valentinovich. We'll never have confidence. That's how I see it today. When they say that the tariff is increasing by 50 percent, we just increased the profits of the monopolies by 50 percent. And I'm asking the government, and I'm asking you for help, to open up a transparent price formation and a tariff on monopolies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-11-m0.u43	Thank you. Dear Alexander Volodymyrna, I would like to say that this increase in gas prices is exclusively for the financial stability of NAC Naftogazu. To make sure that the price of gas that is stored in thermal energy is, let us say, consistent with the purchase price that we make from the appropriate entities. And these subjects are today -- the gas of our own production and the gas that we get on contracts from the outside world. I fully support your suggestion that at your committee meeting, let's take a look at all the ingredients that are today at the price of gas, at the price of electricity. Because I was talking about the fact that there is an explicit abuse of the monopolistic position of some of the subjects who are both monopolistic and monopolistic in the generation market. And these are natural monopolies that are in the gas distribution and electricity distribution markets. So you have to look at it, but I'll say that we're essentially in this administrative order, I don't know if it's good or bad, but we've cut down on those investment programs, given that today's cut-out budget in the country, we have to do an appropriate cost savings today, and we've also cut these costs for both the generating companies and the electricity distribution companies. Also under strict control are the costs of gas distribution networks. But let's do this openly and society will see again and society will tell us what the costs of today are, but they shouldn't be there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-11-m0.u44	National Deputy Suhi, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-11-m0.u45	Thank you. Dear Yuri Vasilovich, Jaroslav Suchy, Zaporozhye city, MP's Economic Development Group. My question over Kugel's question. Since 2008, the basic sectors of the national economy, primarily electricity, have begun to decline in Ukraine, accompanied by a fall in gross domestic product, budgeting, and population poverty. Reason. The energy monster Monopolist, mentioned by Alexander Kugel, has raised the price of electricity for the benefit of all governments from Timoshenko to Azarov and virtually eliminated the entire branch of color metallurgy in Ukraine, the Zaporezian aluminum combination. For a long time, the Zaporezian Ferrosphrodite Plant was relaxed and feverish. Stahanov, Nicopol. The reduction in jobs is in the name of energy revenues. Even though they're at a loss, the decommissioned Zaporozhye aluminum combination doesn't work at the Zaporozhye nuclear power plant. Please tell me if you can do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-11-m0.u46	Let me finish the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-11-m0.u47	tell me, can the government finally set a differentiated tariff on electricity? Well, in particular, the price of final production is rising, the price of electricity is changing. Otherwise we will not get out of economic collapse and all our anti-crisis measures will be doomed to failure and defeat. Thank you. The price of electricity.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-11-m0.u48	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, your question is, I would like to find the answers to the major reform of today's tariff policy. Today, we have a significant price distortion for electricity for the population, for industrial consumers. And if I say so, I'm going to say frankly that the price of electricity for the population today is, unfortunately, at a cost level of 30 percent. The price for industrial consumers is, unfortunately, already higher than those for industrial consumers, for example, in developed countries and Western countries. And of course, we need to move here so that we don't get criticized for rising gas prices, but a similar reform to eliminate these cuts needs to be done in electricity. Yet this question will be our next action, but surely we will be conducting it a little closer to autumn. So that we can lower the price today for industrial consumers, but because the price for industry today is, if you count it in general. 40 billion dollars are to be translated into another category of consumers. And it all goes to industry, unfortunately. And we've been keeping this system for decades, making these cuts. So my answer is that we need to carry out a normal tariff reform. But this tariff reform needs to be done so that people can see that the price of transparency, that monopolies do not abuse their status to publish their financial statements, financial costs. To do this, of course, we need appropriate legislation, and we will prepare it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-11-m0.u49	National MP Mikhalchisin, please ask a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-11-m0.u50	Yuri Mikhalchisin, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Minister, please describe in more detail the new North-South energy corridor in the context of Ukraine's energy independence, from our available capabilities and potential resources. In particular, please comment on the continuing construction of the Odessa-Boda oil pipeline to Gdansk and the possibility of creating parallel gas corridors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-11-m0.u51	Thank you, Your Honor. As for that North-South corridor, it envisions construction on the Ukrainian side. Well, there are different alternative pipelines that will enter the Polish territory from the Ukrainian side, about 200 kilometers away, there must be a length of this pipeline to connect the North, and that's that., and there must be a terminal in the process of building the combined gas, and the transmission to the South, to Italy, the so-called North-South corridor. That's why we're sending our documents to the European Commission, and we're sending proposals to get them. And in this way we will be able to make effective use of our underground gas depots, which are located in Western Ukraine, will simply be connected to our gas depots. There is interest, but we need to look for resources in an appropriate way, and we need to reform our sector in order to have Western gas supply companies, so let's say they weren't afraid to store gas in our gas repositories. I'm sorry, and the question was yours.? Odessa Brody. I was meeting with the Polish side because today, let's say it's not that the Polish side doesn't want to, but the Polish side's insistence that we're going to build the Odessa-Broda pipeline to Adam's flag is Poland's position that this project should be commercial. As soon as this project. A commercial component will appear and it will become economically advantageous, Poland insists on participating in this project of businessmen, Polish businessmen, who are today.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-11-m0.u52	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-11-m0.u53	There are proposals from Polish entrepreneurs that we are working on today because Poland says we don't yet know the economic efficiency and the commercial component because it's not interested in the company, this corridor that we're building today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-11-m0.u54	Please, final question, National Deputy Rosenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-11-m0.u55	Please pass the word to Michael Opanaschenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-11-m0.u56	Please turn on Michael Opanaschenka's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-11-m0.u57	People's MP, Opanaszenko Mikhailo. I'd like to ask. The first question is the Odessa-Boda pipeline, it's obvious. Russia and the United States were fighting for the transportation of Azerbaijani and Turkmen gas. And if Ukraine doesn't use the Odessa-Boda construction, we're even going to lose our chance because now Ukraine can become a transporter country, take this link. So I think this should be a priority question for you. And the second question is, we have a lot of power in the south of Ukraine. But we can't. And we can't find the money for the gasification of the villages at the same time. And the reason centers. I have four areas: 0 per cent of the gasification. Why not develop an electricity problem for these villages and provide them with a cheap electricity tariff for heating their own buildings and for industrial development? It's a very interesting situation: we have.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-11-m0.u58	Let me finish the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-11-m0.u59	We have a great potential for growing vegetables because there's a big, biggest irrigation system in Europe, but we can't fix the processing because there's no gas, there's no electricity, and there's no money in the budget, so I've already asked a few questions to gas these three areas. So I'm asking you to develop an electrification program because there's a surplus of electricity. And the tariff on it can be cheaper than for the same gas in connection with the last trip.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-11-m0.u60	What I'm saying is that in the past government, we had this program about the transfer and the increase, let's say the use of electricity and the replacement of gas. I think we've also developed appropriate materials to provide electricity. In fact, we have to figure out how much this is going to be worth today. How much will the cost increase be: do you build gas pipelines, or do you set up pipelines there, is it to increase electricity networks there?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-11-m0.u61	You know, it all depends on what price of electricity we put in. If we put a real price on electricity, and you're talking about the energy of Energy that it should be, I think, well, the question of efficiency, economic efficiency, it's going to be equivalent to the construction of the gas pipeline and the construction and use of electricity. But let's think about it. I'm ready to take a look. Please, please, make that request specific to what these objects can provide today’s increased amount of electricity. As for Odessa Brody, of course, this project is also a priority for us, created by the Sarmati enterprise, as you know, but unfortunately this project hasn't moved recently, because, I've already said, there's a certain position in Poland that. Where we're supposed to build this pipeline.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-11-m0.u62	Thank you, Yuri Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-11-m0.u63	I think it's in the complex to look at, but if there's a position on the Polish side that doesn't support us in terms of construction, how can we? It supports the building, but it looks for a commercial element. So we have to solve this problem first, and then we have to go on the way to making contracts. Because that side.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-11-m0.u64	Thank you, Yuri Vasilovich. Dear colleagues, the "hour of questions to the government" is over. We're moving on to the agenda. Let's thank the government for the job. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, the first question that we will consider is the report of the Temporary Special Commission on the drafting of a law on the development and application of languages in Ukraine. You understand how important this issue is to stabilize the situation in Ukraine so that there is no speculation about the problem. I request the head of the Temporary Special Commission, Vice-President of the Supreme Council of the Kosulins Ruslan Volodymyrovich, to the parliamentary rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-11-m0.u65	Dear Mr. Head! Ladies and gentlemen! A temporary special commission on the preparation of the draft law on development and application of languages in Ukraine was established by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on March 4, 2014. During its work, the commission held 5 meetings, which were held without the necessary decision-making of the number of national deputies, 3, and one session took place at a minimum of the required quorum. At the first meeting of the commission at the invitation of the National Deputies, the Commission formed a group of experts from various areas of Ukraine who were actively involved in its work. Members of the commission at their meeting, having heard the opinion of experts and experts, decided on the name of the future project and identified it in accordance with the Constitution's rules as "The Order of Application of Languages in Ukraine". By defining the standards of article 10 of the Constitution of Ukraine as basic and inviolable, the commission identified the source base that it was working on in preparing the new one, working on the preparation of the new law. It included: the European Charter of Regional Languages, or the Minority; the Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the European Charter of Regional Languages, or Minorities, of 15.05. In 2003, the Ukrainian Law on Principles of State Language Policy of Ukraine, of 03.07.2012, the draft Law on the Functioning of Ukrainian Language as a State Language, and the Order of Application of Other Languages in Ukraine, introduced by the national deputies of Yavorovsky, Matios, Farion, Bondarenko and Andriy Illenko, the draft Law on the Order of Application of Languages in Ukraine, developed by a group of experts under the chairmanship of Leonid Krawczuk, the URSR Law on Languages in the Ukrainian URSR of 28.10.1989, approved by the Presidential Decree of Ukraine of 15.02. In 2010, the conclusions of the European Commission for Democracy on the right of the Venice Commission to draft the Law on Principles of State Language Policy of 2010, 2011, the evaluation and recommendations of the OSCE High Commissioner for National Minorities on the draft Ukrainian Law on Principles of State Language Policy of 2010 and 2011. After reviewing these documents and listening to the opinions of experts, the majority of the members of the panel approved the draft Ukrainian Law on the Order of Application of Languages in Ukraine, developed by a group of experts led by Leonid Krawczuk. This project was designed in its own time to improve and amend the Law on the Principles of State Language Policy of Ukraine, which has created a mixed perception in society and has become a cause for social destruction. The standards of the project harmonize and improve the language life of the country on the basis of a single national Ukrainian language. The developers came out to achieve the language harmony of society only through a clear recognition that we have a national language that is compulsory and that we have the rights of all other groups of the population by language. The project not only declares all rights but also details the mechanism for their implementation. Taking these documents into account, and taking into account the Commission's only legitimate decision, they decided to refer this document to international expert environments, including the European Commission for Democracy, through the right of the Venice Commission, the OSCE, the Council of Europe, to representatives of all national minorities to obtain their assessment, their advice and further refinement of the bill. National deputies and experts have made their proposals to this bill. They are now owned by the Supreme Council and the National Deputies for further work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-11-m0.u66	Thank you, Ruslan Volodymyrovich. Dear colleagues, I am convinced that, after the conclusions of the authoritative Venice Commission, we will be able to adopt this law, which will be supported not only in Ukraine, but also outside our country, as democratic as the one that guarantees the rights of national minorities and all Ukrainian citizens to communicate in the language they want to communicate. At the same time, we need to be clear about the constitutional standards of the Ukrainian language. Please, from this question, I see Vladimir Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-11-m0.u67	Vladimir Yavorowski, Fatherland, Troyshina. Dear colleagues, you have heard the report of the head of our work committee. Everything's right there, fair enough. I just think, in the meantime, Alexander Valentine's Day, while we're waiting for an evaluation of the expertise of these institutions that were named, and the Venice Commission, and our internals, I think we should go back to the question. I passed this bill. You know, the paper, the language paper, the European paper, we have in Parliament to accept with great shullery, the Medvedchuk then. The translation was made not from the original but from a bad Russian translation. Finally, we have an official translation of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, with their seal. Where it is not as much about regional languages as it is about minority languages, or languages that may be threatened by destruction. Because of that, Alexander Valentine's Day, not today, I understand, maybe next week, maybe a little later, but we should put in this draft supplement.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-11-m0.u68	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-11-m0.u69	And we have to accept the normal civilized version of the European Language Charter. After that, we pave the way for the adoption of this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-11-m0.u70	Please turn on the microphone of the Pharion People’s Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-11-m0.u71	Ladies and gentlemen, we have a very important problem today, and I am very happy, Mr. Head of the Supreme Council, that you have focused on upholding legislation on language issues. But it is in our session room that the tenth founding article of the Constitution of Ukraine on the state status of the Ukrainian language is most violated. By the way, I would like to remind you that this state status includes the concept of constitutional order. For those of you who are still brutally violating the status of the state language and speaking the occupying language here, I will now have to read the Constitutional Court's decision. That is, Ukraine’s political extéblishment was to such an extent that it had to be explained what that meant by national language. Thus, the national language means (in line with the Constitutional Court’s decision of 14.12.1999) that it and only it should speak exclusively in all State institutions. It is a mandatory means of communication throughout the country, I emphasize, in the exercise of powers by the authorities and authorities.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-11-m0.u72	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-11-m0.u73	Let me finish. The language of acts, jobs, businesses, documentation, etc., as well as in other public spheres of social life, which are defined by law, that is, all those who are mosculating in our hall here are brutally violating language legislation. And all I have to do is remind them of an outstanding crossover phrase that "in the state language they don't speak either a guest, or a ham, or an invader." Hams are just being sent, and the invaders are being shot. Then we'll have a system of language on the ground.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-11-m0.u74	Please, National Deputy Herman.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-11-m0.u75	Dear Mr. Head, your statements and initiatives yesterday indicate that you are deeply aware of the processes that are taking place in eastern Ukraine, and you understand those concerns about Ukraine’s statehood and integrity in this regard. In view of this, I would like you to remind all Ukrainians and national MPs, including those who live in eastern Ukraine, that they are not invaders, that they are Ukrainian citizens who also love Ukraine, and that they use Russian. And we ask you for the unity of Ukraine, in order to calmly do everything possible so that the linguistic interests of the East of Ukraine, the millions of people who live there, are kept and warned. And please turn off the microphone to those MPs who insult half the population of Ukraine. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-11-m0.u76	Please turn on the microphone of the People’s Deputy Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-11-m0.u77	Viacheslav Kirilenko, Party "For Ukraine!"The Fatherland." Dear colleagues, honourable voters, I have been to all the meetings of the commission. The commission worked, if anyone didn't want to, it's pretty much settled. On the one hand -- there were mutually exclusive points of view, on the other hand -- on the other hand, probably about 80, maybe 90 percent is consonant. We have to decide, and we don't have to be helped here abroad, and we have a few questions to decide for ourselves. The first question is the real fulfillment of the status of Ukrainian as a national language, the second question is the real protection of the languages of national minorities, the minority languages that really need this protection, but the speakers of these languages in Ukraine need not be much more and more. And a Russian question in Ukraine. Because it's on the edge of political, not linguistic, discussions. These three.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-11-m0.u78	Allow the committee's head to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-11-m0.u79	These three issues must be resolved here in the Ukrainian Parliament. For my part, I urge all the political forces to do their utmost to ensure that the main issues for Ukraine and the Ukrainians are territorial integrity, unity, economic development and the great prospects for Ukrainian national identity. And our European identity is the key to advancing to the European Union. Slowly this understanding comes to most of our fellow countrymen. And I'm convinced that in a six-year period, all the questions that relate to the language tension inspired mainly from the outside will be removed, including through our efforts with you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-11-m0.u80	Dear colleagues, we have discussed the matter so briefly. And I want to say that Parliament has to do everything in order for all citizens of Ukraine, no matter what language they speak, which religion they belong to, to be comfortable living in all the regions of our country. And it's our job, it's our duty, it's our duty, it's our duty, it's our duty, it's our duty to work out the law in that direction. And I am convinced that Parliament will adopt it, and this law will give opportunity and preserve the status of the Ukrainian language as a national language, and certainly allow all Ukrainian citizens to communicate in the language they want to discuss. Dear colleagues, we've discussed this enough. I'm begging you. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, Istvan Geidosh. I can't help but say it because it also represents national minorities. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-11-m0.u81	Istvan Highdosh, the Sovereign European Ukraine. Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! A month’s work on the Temporary Special Commission to draft a new version of the Language Law demonstrated different approaches to understanding it. Which should be the new language law. Regardless of whether a basic draft of the Law was chosen, it was unfortunately necessary to note that the work was far from finished. Despite all promises to take into account the proposals made by our country’s national minorities in the drafting of the new Language Law, I also have to say that they are not yet counted. I mean proposals from Hungarian, Romanian, Bulgarian and other communities. I believe that the adoption of an unbalanced Language Law, which does not reflect the interests of the communities of the Nazis, narrowing down their monies of rights, may increase the conflict among Ukrainian citizens who speak different languages, will not contribute to the unification of the country. the promotion of Ukraine to Europe and the establishment of European values. On the need to adopt the Language Law, taking into account interests.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-11-m0.u82	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-11-m0.u83	The need for the adoption of the Language Law, taking into account the interests of all national minorities in Ukraine and the failure to make hasty decisions in the language field, also testifies to the recommendations of international organizations. In particular, in the Report of the Advisory Committee of the Framework Convention on the Protection of National Minorities, issued as a result of a visit to Ukraine from 21 to 26 March of this year. As well as a report by the OSCE High Commissioner on national issues less than April 7, this year. In view of the above, both the difficult political situation and the fact that there has been no quorum several times, I propose either to stop the work of the commission until a more favourable time has come, when conditions are created to take into account the broad opinions of the Ukrainian society, as well as the national and international expert environment, or that the commission actually work in the form of a compromise search so that the linguistic rights of national minorities are not narrowed down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-11-m0.u84	Dear colleagues, I would like to say that, of course, we will have to adopt a balanced law with you in the Supreme Council that takes into account all the houses and all the proposals. At the same time, an expert from the Venice Commission is about to take place. We'll take Europe's comments into account, and I'm sure after that, the commission will work on the project and bring it to the Supreme Council. Dear colleagues, I'm asking you, we need to consider another issue of the order of the day, and I'm going to allow everyone, in fact, to speak to the factions. Dear colleagues, we're simply asking questions. Well, all the thoughts have come to light. I beg you, let's move on to the agenda. Dear colleagues, we have. [[B in m in s a l in]] I've given all the factions a chance to speak. Dear colleagues. [[B in m in s a l in]] From the faction of the Party of the Regions, I recall Hanna Herman speaking. You must have just been out of the room. Dear colleagues, I ask you to calm down. We are now moving on to issues, the draft Law 2461, the draft Act amending the Basic Health Law on prevention and treatment of rare (orphan) diseases. Please, I would like to invite the head of the Health Committee’s Subcommittee, Dudek Vladimir Vladimirovich, to the rostrum. Please, Vladimir Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-11-m0.u85	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Today I have a pleasant opportunity to present to you the almost non-political bill, number 2461, and it is aimed at solving the problems of orphan patients in Ukraine. I am convinced that all the factions, I am convinced that all the factions are familiar with this problem, because I know that more than a dozen public organizations that unite the sick and the parents of the sick have applied such letters to each faction and have received support in drafting this bill. So I'm just going to say a few words about what this problem is and how the authors of the legislative initiative propose to solve it. The specificity of orthodontic diseases is that they occur very rarely among humans. Their frequency, and this is a combination of criteria for the introduction of diseases to orthopaedics, less than one for two thousand people. It is because of this rareness that the cost of treatment, the cost of restoring the sick, is extremely high. The average family in any country and Ukraine, in particular, is unable to spend money on their own, to provide health care, or to provide necessary restorative food, for example, a phenyl-getanery sufferer needs a year’s special diet of hundreds of thousands of dollars a year. And so there is a widespread practice in Europe, and in the countries of the former Soviet Union, the state takes care of such patients because they cannot take care of themselves. At the same time, these are usually genetic diseases, very severe diseases, and without special treatment, the optimistic scenario is disability, the pessimistic scenario for such patients is death. Therefore, the authors of the legislative initiative, representing five different factions of our Parliament, suggested that the following should be done: a register of orphan diseases in Ukraine, a register of patients with these diseases, a list of treatment protocols, and funding for these patients. It's not the invention of something new -- it's a common practice to solve these problems in many countries, the only thing we don't have yet. This is fundamental to this bill, I hope for your support, and at the same time, the honourable Alexander Valentinovich, I think that, on the one hand, this bill, I hope for the support of our parliament, on the other hand, we may not have enough votes, not because we are unwilling to vote, but because of a small number of deputies. Therefore, my request may be either a vote before the vote, or perhaps a vote will be postponed to Tuesday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-11-m0.u86	Thank you for the report. Dear colleagues, I'd like you to sign up for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, please sign in. The word is given to the national deputy of Chechtov, a faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-11-m0.u87	Dear Alexander Valentinović, distinguished colleagues! Indeed, the bill is valid, drafted by a group of authors, including a doctor of medical sciences as a member of the Party of the Regions of Tatiana Bacheva. A bill that is needed today and that awaits hundreds and thousands of people. The bill aims to improve the legal framework in the field of health care and to create the general legal conditions necessary to ensure effective prevention of rare orphan diseases and to provide adequate medical care for those suffering from these diseases. The problem of rare diseases, their detection, treatment, the provision of appropriate medicines and special treatments, diets, products is relevant to any country in the world. I note once again the relevance and I may wish to join a speaking colleague, as the bill is needed, important and expected. And if there are no votes today, it may be possible to conclude the debate today and the decision to vote on Tuesday so as not to burn down this important and necessary law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-11-m0.u88	Please give the floor to the National Deputy Leon.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-11-m0.u89	Please pass the word to Oleg Helvey.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-11-m0.u90	Please, Oleg Helaway.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-11-m0.u91	Oleg Heleway, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Well, if there are such nosological units as orphan diseases, so as national deputies, of course, we cannot turn our backs on these diseases, we cannot turn our backs on those people who are now doomed to self - survival. Of course, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union will support this bill. But I would like to draw your attention to getting us all back to medicine, because those who have recently adopted the same changes to the Budget Code, for example, we have reduced funding for the treatment of patients abroad. Although it is clear that the same orphan diseases are best treated abroad. And as we reduce funding, we take away from people the possibility of maybe the same life. Similarly, by accepting budget changes, we have reduced funding for the same TB treatment. Although it is clear that Ukraine is on the verge of an epidemic of tuberculosis. And we had no right to do that. Similarly, we have reduced funding for such a disease as hepatitis. Although he has hepatitis C, the amount of treatment is 200,000 dollars. I'm asking you which private person can afford to spend 200,000 dollars in his personal pocket to save his own life. And it is clear that today in Ukraine, people are not alone in selling their homes in order to save the lives of family members and families. As national deputies, therefore, it is vital that we return to the issue of medical financing as soon as possible. Yet, they have increased funding in areas where people cannot find the funds to treat themselves and their family. And finally, it's clear that medicine is everywhere through corrupt schemes. Therefore, the Ministry of Health and the Cabinet of Ministers are eager to move ahead with an internal illustration, and other people who have not become engrossed in the corruption schemes related to medicine, medicine, and purchases and tenders in this area are wanted. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-11-m0.u92	Thank you. Please give the floor to the People’s Deputy Sukh.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-11-m0.u93	Dear colleagues, Bill 2461 gives us all a chance to talk to you and raise questions about the painful future of our health system. Rather, it is true that there is no health system in the country. Which of you, God forbid, has had the misfortune of treating family and loved ones, will confirm my words: the system as such ceases to exist, for in the declarant of free medical care we have in fact some semi-responsible, unpaid and defective medicine. In 2003, for the first time, I stood on this rostrum with a bill on the introduction of a mandatory national social health insurance. Colleagues, we have four types of social insurance. And who knows who doesn't understand them, but let's face it, the 300 billion dollars in insurance money we can't get out of the budget. No accidents at work, no hospitals, no births, no funerals, no unemployment, nothing. We do not have the fifth kind of talk about the basis of our basic law, the basis of a compulsory state social insurance. We don't have a fifth species. Now, if you don't mind, those who are listening to me right now, and those who are listening to our broadcast, in 10 years since 2003, we would have polished this law and this health insurance system, because you and I have moved from social security to social insurance for 10 years -- from 1992 when the concept of social security was adopted, until 2003, when we completed pension insurance, unemployment and so on. So today it's a one-off, it's a unique case, and it could be solved and decided by us as if it were a medical insurance. Deputy Mayor, remember, what are we talking about every day? What do we do all the time? We are looking for funds to treat people, especially children. It's only now that we understand what the Japanese told us in 1986: it's going to be 20 to 30 years, you're going to feel on your kids, what Chernobyl is. So I took the opportunity to speak here, let's go back to the mandatory social-medical insurance. There are two options: Let the government determine which one it will support. This does not mean that on the second day everything will be all right. But we need to move forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-11-m0.u94	Thanks for the show. Please, Mikola Tomenko, the Fatherland faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-11-m0.u95	Alexander Valentinovich, please give the floor to my colleague and one of the officers of the Committee on Health Care to Roman Ilik.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-11-m0.u96	Please, Roman Ilik.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-11-m0.u97	Roman Ilik, Fatherland faction, 121 constituency, Drogbychkin. Dear friends, orphan diseases, do you know how they are translated? It's translated "orphan diseases," "orphan diseases." Indeed, these people who suffer from these diseases are truly orphans in Ukraine. And I'll tell you why. Because they're all alone with this problem that they have. All the world's society, the whole world understands that we're a designer with you, is the puzzle that makes up all the genes. If genes from one reason or another have gone wrong, there is a genetic disorder, a treatment that is extremely difficult, and sometimes there is nothing to even diagnose, and there is no specific medicine to treat one or the other. The world’s society is already well aware that there is no sharing of healthy and sick people today. That is understandable, for all of us can become hostages to circumstances called orthonal diseases. Thus, world science and medicine find new and new methods and medicines that can help these people. And our task today is to adopt this bill, because it's very important for those Ukrainians who are really left with each other today with a problem. But, Alexander Valentine’s Day, there is much talk today about reconciling mandates with positions in the executive branch and in the government. And look at the left-hand side of the hall, that's how we can pass this law when there's no real faction of the Party of Regions and most of those who could support this bill that Ukraine needs. It is very important for us to mobilize and not fail to break similar laws. Because if they fail, well, believe me, this is not just a life, but life, not just for those who are sick, but for those who can be born soon, and we really have nothing to help them in Ukraine. Therefore, understanding what is being done. Perhaps we will not have a quorum today to adopt such an important and necessary law for Ukraine, I propose that we move the voting on this bill to the next plenary session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-11-m0.u98	I'm asking you very much, dear colleagues. Come on, we really need to make decisions right now, and I doubt that because all the factions, I emphasize, all the factions don't work in an organized way, and including the non-fractional MPs. And today I see no opportunity for Parliament to make very important responsible decisions. And there's no exception for any factions. There's no exclusion for any of the factions here. I'm calling on the faction leaders to work with the deputies so that we don't embarrass the parliament of Ukraine in front of our electorate, who, unlike the deputies, go to work regularly to get paid. Friday is an optional day. It's not an optional day. This is the day when Parliament should make responsible decisions, honourable colleagues. And once again, I'm going to the secretariat, and actually I'm asking you to check not just who signed up for information in the morning, but who, whose cards are currently working in the hall. And it's when there's no card to draw a conclusion when there's a deputy or there's no one to sign up for the registration form. Dear colleagues, I support, I think the Hall will support the motion to postpone the vote. I suggest you, Your Honor, now listen to more laws. Which we have scheduled for the day, and next week, we have next week, I remind you, sessional, we will make decisions on the issues under discussion. No objections? There's no objection. Thank you for your support. And I give the floor to Project 4434. We've got a report from the Moskal People's Department. Is there a national MP, Moscal? He reports from the committee to the head of the Committee on Human Rights, Minorities, International Relations – Packaan Valeriy Vasilovich. Please, 4434, draft law on the restoration of the rights of the indigenous people of Ukraine, forcibly displaced in the territory, from the territory, excuse me, Crimea. Please, Valery Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-11-m0.u99	We're working on it. Now. Dear colleagues, honourable chairman, the issues that are proposed to be settled in this bill are really relevant today. So far, there is no basic legislation in domestic legislation that deals with the question of the restoration of the rights of persons deported on a national basis. The committee notes, however, that the bill is devoid of a comprehensive approach to solving problems in the field. Other ethnic groups outside the law have been forced into national displacements, such as Armenians, Bulgarians, Italians, Germans, and Hungarians. The committee believes that it is essential to work on terms such as "root people" and "forced displaced people" that cannot be identified. The committee's decision. "As a result of this committee's consideration, send this bill to the author for further processing." In general, the position of the committee that a legislative act should be adopted first, which is introduced by the national deputy Jemiliev and is based on this legislative act to unite all other legislative acts. Please reject, reverse, and merge all legislative acts into one. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-11-m0.u100	Dear colleagues, no objection to the support of the committee? In order to reject, we can just put it to a vote right now, and so the law will be rejected. No objections? I won't. The Supreme Council would like to decide on the support of Law 4434. Please vote. [[11:38:45]] For 115 The decision is not taken. Please, Your Honor, the next law on the same subject applies to the rights of the indigenous peoples of Ukraine. The registration number of this law is 4501. Please, head of the committee. Valerius Vasilovich! The committee head, please report this law. Aah! Author! I see the author. National Deputy Karpuntsov, please Valérie Vitaliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-11-m0.u101	Dear colleagues, the purpose of this bill and the basis is the Constitution of Ukraine, and, directly, article 11, according to which the Ukrainian State contributes to the development of the ethnic, cultural, linguistic and religious identity of all the indigenous peoples of Ukraine. And of course, the catalyst for these processes was the situation of annexation, or in fact the military occupation of the territory of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, and those indigenous peoples that live there, including the Tatars and the Crimeans and the Karaites, they remained alone with these problems -- with problems of ethnic, cultural identity. And it is clear that in addition to these peoples, there are many other peoples in Ukraine who do not have a homeland outside Ukraine, but they are our citizens, they are Ukrainian citizens who love Ukraine, who want to live in Ukraine, but also want to support their ethnic, cultural traditions, and, of course, they would not want to see any possibility of violating these cultural, ethnic traditions, of violating them, of the rights that the Constitution gives them. And of course, this draft act was discussed on the committee, there were valid thoughts and there was a decision that. about the need to first process a concept that would. The ethnonational policy of our nation, which would give basic principles, and then, on the basis of that concept, there might be more than one normative act. Of course, the drafting of this legislation is the first step, it is a demonstration of the indigenous peoples who live in our territory by citizens, but who do not have their Fatherland outside Ukraine, that our nation, the activity of our nation, is aimed at guaranteeing their rights and so on. so that our fellow citizens may feel full members of the great Ukrainian family. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-11-m0.u102	Thank you. Please, the head of the committee will report. Dear colleagues, I ask you, Valérie Vitaliyovich, is a principle of insistence to ask you a question. Please, let's give this a chance. The national deputy of Ephraim insists on the question to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-11-m0.u103	Dear colleagues, in article 1 of this Act you write that the title nation in Ukraine is Ukrainian, point. I'd like that. I'd like you to explain who's here, who's the main nation? Alexander Valentine's Day, and here's a question for you. When there is a completely hammocked statement about what the Russian language says either the hammocks or the invaders, what language will Prime Minister Yacinuk today communicate with the people who live there in Donbass? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-11-m0.u104	Alexander Sergiyovich, Alexander Sergiyovich, let's say you use the same rule as I am the right of the national MP to the legislative initiative. There is a draft act, there are committees, you have the right to make any amendments and express your point of view. But I'll tell you, the purpose of the bill is that everyone, all nationalities, who have no other Fatherland but Ukraine, who love Ukraine as their country, who are patriots of Ukraine, feel the only family. These are both Tatars and Crimeans and Karaites and hagauses and many others. And I ask you, if you have specific suggestions, you as the subject of the legislative initiative can implement them, no one is narrowing you down to rights, not using the rostrum to fuel some kind of hostility. It is better to do our best to unite our people, our Ukraine, and to strengthen them as a mighty nation. And I ask you to show love for our state, not hatred. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-11-m0.u105	Please, Valery Paccan, head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-11-m0.u106	Dear colleagues, I would very much ask this room not to do or speculate on the issues of indigenous peoples and forcibly displaced peoples. We are the hall that must unite all Ukraine and protect the interests of all ethnic and ethnic minorities in our country. I'll remind everyone that we have about 130 national minorities in our country. To this day, everyone has lived in peace and tranquillity. In one village there were about three churches, about three different cultural minorities. And everyone used to, everything was fine, everything was fine. These bills I would ask, Your Honor, to unite, to return to work, and the committee will finalize these bills, take the best standards from each bill -- and we will go to the only editorial on these bills. I ask you all to be a unifying factor, not a factor that breaks and stirs up hostility in Ukraine. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-11-m0.u107	Dear colleagues, there's a proposal by the committee of profile that we don't discuss this issue right now, but that we send it to work on it. Viacheslav Kirilenko, please, for this reason. In order for us to still have the opportunity and notice to take into account the ones that were being announced here and to work on the projects themselves. I would also ask the authors of Bill 4501 to take into account the proposals of Law 4434, the national MP Moskal, who was rejected. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-11-m0.u108	Thank you, Alexander Valentinovich. Viacheslav Kirilenko, Party "For Ukraine!"The Fatherland." We should certainly pass this law on the indigenous nations, which primarily applies to the Crimean Tatars. Especially today, on the eve of the 70th anniversary of deportation, the Crimean Tatars virtually again found themselves in an unfriendly environment, in occupation, and under the yoke. And by the way, the last beating of a Crimean Tatar right in Simferopol indicates that Russia is on the road to ethnic cleansing in Crimea. And without any law, here's a voluntary one, the director of Ukrainian high school in the Crimea of Natalia Rudenko, under the pressure of armed people with unidentified signs of recognition, says that ethnic cleansing applies to Crimea Tatars and Ukrainians. Our answer must be simple. The status of the indigenous people to Crimean Tatars, the recognition of the Majlis at all levels, the cabinet and the representation of the Majlis in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the President of Ukraine, and the Ukrainian Government, the provision of financial assistance and all measures that will contribute to social adaptation. And I want to say that when Russia deported in 1944, the Soviet Union then, the Crimean Tatars from its homeland, gave no opportunity to resist when they started coming back, because there was a restructuring, then it didn't hit its finger to adapt the Crimean Tatars. And only the Ukrainian State has spent 23 years investing millions of billions of dollars to support the adaptation of Crimean Tatars and allowing them to return to the Crimea somehow and live there. Russia at this time, the Kremlin, was openly resisting this. And now more than ever, the Ukrainian Parliament must take this decision and help the Crimean Tatars adapt them. To support their desire to gain national cultural autonomy, as well as to deny that the Crimean so - called Constitution, which is proposed for adoption today in the occupied Crimea on April 11, does not provide for any status of the indigenous people for Crimean Tatars as well as for Karaites as for Crimean criminals. Thus, the Ukrainian Parliament, in association with international organizations, must guard the fundamental rights of the Crimean Tatar people. Resist emancipation, assimilation, resist ethnic cleansing, and do everything to ensure that the Crimean Tatars are reinstated in all rights in Crimea, which are an integral part of an independent Ukraine. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-11-m0.u109	Vladimir Yavorowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-11-m0.u110	Honorary and Crimean Tatars and representatives of national minorities who live in Ukraine and have it as their own Fatherland. We have two bills. They may be too late, but on the other hand, in this situation they're super-active. And I am convinced that they must be accepted. The Moscow bill is interesting because it focuses on its main, basic, so to speak, legislative view on the Crimean Tatars. Another bill submitted by Vitaly Klitschko, our colleague, is focused on other national minorities, who are natives of Ukraine. They really don't have any other Motherland than ours. Maybe we should expand a little bit more and add rums here, let's say, Zacarpathian, which is just as separate, I'd say, as a national minority, and they don't have another Motherland. Maybe the issue is, but he needs it. Because, Alexander Valentine's Day, I'm sure it'll be very wise for us to bring these two bills together in a state-wide way, and then it will really be a powerful Crimscotarian haircut. For he who does not understand the tragedy of the Crimean Tatar nation will never understand any national tragedy or of his people or of any other nation. We know how our colleague Mustafa Jamilev introduced this bill, and he was in this Supreme Council, in this room, he was collapsed. This is such a colossal injustice that can almost be compared to the events that took place in 1944 on the Crimea Peninsula. The Crimean Tatars today, indeed, I am here in solidarity and with my colleague Krilenk, the Crimean Tatars, really, today have come back to being history against them today, and they are again in an incredibly difficult situation today. We're confident that they will, their Majlis will make very normal decisions and they'll hold their referendum. And by the way, this referendum can be absolutely legal, because in this case it is a national union, the only Crimean nation that has the right to self-determination. And I think that by adopting this law, when we unite it, cross these two laws, we're just going to give a hand, a very strong hand, a reliable hand given to the Crimean Tatars. To them, it will be a tremendous support that the Ukrainian Parliament will adopt this bill in a difficult moment of their history, their national existence, and in this way support them. Because of this, it seems to me that I just need to do it quickly, Alexander Valentinovich, quickly so that the committee can work together, bring together these two bills, and we will have a very good and modern, and European, by the way, law.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-11-m0.u111	Please, National Deputy Hanna Herman. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-11-m0.u112	I would ask the Ukrainian national deputies to confirm their excellent eloquence with knowledge and competence. The fact is that the Committee on Human Rights and National Minorities has given good money to the Parliament’s bill of the authorship of Jemiliev, which is very objectively, has taken into consideration the problem that we are talking about. The committee decided that it would recommend the Jemiliev bill itself, asking Parliament to support it. So to talk today and to spend time on two bills that are very weak, which require a lot of work, I don't think there's any point, and it doesn't have to be wasted on Parliamentary and parliamentary eloquence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-11-m0.u113	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please, Bogdan Benjuk, Freedom.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-11-m0.u114	In fact, on the committee, we've discussed several times the draft of the Jemiliev Act, which was balanced on different sides, and I think it's much more powerful than the two projects we're talking about today. But recalling history, which is a story related to this issue over the decades, last year in May, when there were problems in Simferopol to mark the next date of the deportation of Crimea Tatars from Crimea, was the outgoing meeting of our committee. And a huge number of problems related to the Crimean Tatars were discussed at the time, but you know, and to this day we have with you the moments that are understood that these problems are not solved in our country for many reasons: for economic reasons, not desire, always because, alas, let's put off a little later, because these problems are not on time. As it turns out, these problems are timely. Because the whole nation, which has only one point in the world where it has its roots, where it's from, is the Crimean Tatars who claim to be established here and to confirm this place of their residence, we have a deputy to our Ukrainian Parliament. But the Ukrainian Parliament has another much more powerful problem: the problem is that we have not clarified the problem of the Ukrainian people to the end. And we're arguing about how to live for Ukrainians in Ukraine? How can we communicate? How Can I Exist? And we understand that this Parliament is absolutely, I don't think, Ukrainian, but it's still a little bit different. And as I understand the problem that we are bringing to the rostrum of our Parliament today, the most important is until we define the rights of Ukrainians in our country and the existence of Ukrainians at all levels, until then we will have problems that relate to the existence of minorities in our country. Because minorities claim to be completely different. This is resolved by international agreements all over the world. And that's why the question that relates to the law that we're discussing today is Law 4501. I think we should send him back for work, or some of the details that are there, to put him to the law of Jemiliev and still put to the vote the law of Jamiliev. Because the problems associated with the Crimean Tatars are primarily too late, gentlemen. We sit in the last wagon to help those who are God’s people on his gifted earth, just as the God - given land lives in Ukraine. Remember! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-11-m0.u115	Thank you. Please, Olesia Donny. And, dear colleagues, there is a suggestion to sum up the discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-11-m0.u116	Ladies and gentlemen! I wanted to talk professionally about the bills and the Moscals, and the Call for the Restoration of the Rights of Indigenous Peoples, but unfortunately we see that I don't know if the TV viewers see it, we have problems with the discipline in the hall. This is a real problem and we need to discuss it in the coalition. Well, it's not normal when our representatives, especially all of our MPs, are not in the room today, and it's not going to lead to a positive vote. That's a fact. It's a nuisance. That's what we need to deal with. Then we'll have to talk about general things. General things. I'm sorry that we're going to this post-factum bill right now, but we had to do it before the Crimea occupation, before that pseudo referendum. And I'll remind you, I've repeatedly said that it was necessary to at least negotiate at the official level, either at the level of the Supreme Council, or at the level of the Cabinet of Ministers with the Majlis. Not private meetings, but negotiations. We didn't do it. Obviously. What we need to do now is consider mistakes and make things institutional, not just a bill that, you know, will apply very little to the occupied territory now, but think about it in general. Look, Crimea and I now have a colossal emigration of Crimean Tatars, Ukrainians, Russians who are patriotic about Ukraine. This means that they have a problem with work, a problem with housing, a problem with social security. Friends, and that's thousands, and there'll be tens, God forbid, hundreds of thousands will have to emigrate, because there's a real violation of all the constitutional rights of Ukrainian citizens right now. And yesterday, we discussed this problem not only in our group, the Sovereign European Ukraine, but also with our colleagues in the Impact faction, and we came up with the idea that now I'm just going to sound it, and hopefully we'll discuss it on the committees and we'll make the right decision. We need an institution to solve the Crimean problem, and we want it to be, let's think, either a Crimean Affairs Vice-Prime Minister, or it's a separate Ministry or a Crimea Committee, as a minimum, authorized by the Supreme Council, but I think it's better to exercise executive power, because otherwise, in every ministry and department, the Crimean interests, as they migrate, will always be on the tenth level, because there will always be some other priorities. So there must be one organ that would now help military personnel who leave there and the Crimean Tatars who leave there. So I'm going to talk about this problem right now, and we're going to talk about it in the parliamentary groups and in the committees. And I hope we can go back to her and decide that we have either a Deputy Prime Minister in Crimea, or a Minister, or a Head of the State Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-11-m0.u117	Thanks for the offer. Dear colleagues, and let's give a protocol commission to send this bill for further development. And the request that we consider the draft of the people's deputy Jamilov in the near future, and take into account the proposals that were both in the Mosaic Law and in the law that Valérie Karpuntz reported. No objection, dear colleagues? I won't. I beg of you, Your Honor, for a recess, let's hear the report from the last law. From the last law. Decisions will be made, as will the law regarding the sick, separately, next week. And then we're going to have questions, and then we're going to have the opportunity for the people's deputies to make statements, the announcement in the Miscellaneous. No objections? I won't. Dear colleagues, I beg of you, the National Deputy of Tears of Tetian. Please provide a brief update on the Offering Regulation project. overcoming the consequences of selective justice, 4367.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-11-m0.u118	Dear Alexander Valentinovich, distinguished national MPs! Aunt Tears, the Fatherland faction. We, under the authority of Gennady Moskal, have prepared a draft of the Supreme Council's decree to rehabilitate former illegal ex-government officials in the government of Yulia Timoshenko. It's not a secret that there have been illegal political persecution in our country during the years 2010-2013. These are the people, the 12 names in this decree, and I'd like to introduce two more ex-governors from the vote -- former Minister Filipchuk George and former First Deputy Justice Minister Korniychuk Eugene. These are all the people who have been convicted of article 364, 365. Ladies and gentlemen, the purpose of this decision is simply to make a political decision, because to date 90 percent of these officials have been recognized by the court or by the decision of the law enforcement authorities as being not convicted and that criminal cases have been closed against them. So I have a very big request to support, because many of these ex-governments did not legally sit in our prisons, and they practically did not do anything to bring them to criminal responsibility. That's why you and I adopted a month ago, maybe even a little bit more, a change to the Codex. the Criminal Code of Ukraine and amended article 364 to 365. It's a purely political decision. Thank you. But, Alexander Valentine's Day, I'm addressing you, because we have a left side of the hall virtually missing and so that we don't. He didn't fail, I suggest we move him to the next plenary week. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-11-m0.u119	Thank you for the report. Please, from Irina Valerievna Kupreyczyk. I don't see her in the hall. Dear colleagues, I ask you to support the proposal and legislative acts (2461) and (4367) so that we can put them on the decision-making side of the issues discussed next session week. And now, dear fellows, we have a recess of up to 12 hours for 30 minutes. After the break, we'll be able to announce the parliamentary requests and in the "Variable" allow the MPs to speak out on the issues that concern their electorate. Is there an uninterrupted offer? Dear colleagues, there is a proposal without interruption. Is it supported or not? Supported. That is, to finish the job early for half an hour or to perform more at the Miscellaneous. That's right. Let's do this. No questions asked. I then ask the Honourable Vice-President of the Supreme Council, Ruslan Wolodymirovich Kosulinsky, to start a difficult job by announcing the parliamentary requests.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-11-m0.u120	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, 131 members of the National People's Party have come in. So the question of the people's MP is: Alexander Donya to the executive responsibility of the President of Ukraine for denouncing the name Hero of Ukraine for carrying out the separatist actions of Dej Boris Davidovich. I'm asking for your support. Please vote. [[12:04:56]] For-44 The decision is not approved. Viktor Razwadowski, head of the Zitomir District State Administration, to provide financial assistance for the establishment of new windows in the sports hall of the Amazing Children's and Youth Sports School of the Žitomir Region. Viktor Razwadowski to the Minister of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine for the transmission of the pipeline, owned by the National Stock Exchange Company Naftogaz Ukraine, in the use of the Public Shareholder Company Žitomirgaz. Alexander Donya, acting as Attorney General of Ukraine for the discovery of criminal conduct in connection with the anticonstitutional and illegal actions of Dej Boris Davidovich. Vladimir Boyk, acting as Attorney General of Ukraine for the illegal actions of officials of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in the Ternopil region and in the Chirtkow district office of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in the Ternopil region, aimed at covering the crimes of officials of the Chortkow District Council. Mikoli Gigi to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the immediate action taken in connection with the final disposal of inappropriate and banned chemical products for the protection of plants in the Jurin poisoner, located in the village of Jurin Shargorodsky district of Winnitsky, in order to prevent technological disaster and to prevent negative consequences for residents of the region, as well as the surrounding natural environment. Mikoli Gigi to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the use of effective response measures for the implementation of the terms of the contract by the National Shareholder Company Naftogaz Ukraine on the completion of the work on the gasification of the village of Rakhni Lis in the Chargord region of Winnitsk. The Odessa Region of Greenewetsk to the head of the Odessa District State Administration on the status of implementation of the Ukrainian Law on Fundamental Principles for the Social Protection of Veterans and Other Elderly Citizens in Ukraine and the Cabinet of Ministers Decision No.354 of 17 May 1993 on the free movement of pensioners in the transport of general use in part of ensuring the right of pensioners and persons with disabilities to travel free of charge in the transport of general use in Odessa. The Group of Greenewecks to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the temporary suspension of article 4 of the Ukrainian Act on the order of settlement in foreign currency. Jury Wozniak to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the provision of housing rights for residents of Hostel No.3-A on the street of Olek Dundić in the city of Rivnam, which is covered by the Ukrainian Act on the Realisation of Housing Rights of Guests, which is established by decisions of the courts. Jury Wozniak is under the responsibility of the Attorney General of Ukraine to bring to justice those responsible for the illegal occupation of the entire property complex of the Korec Korec Inter-College Sanatorium. Olega Ljaška to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the social security of Ukrainian citizens who are forced to be in Ukraine's temporarily occupied Russian Federation territory. Oleg Tuggnibok to the National Consumer Protection Inspectorate of Ukraine on the need to take effective measures to secure domestic consumers in connection with the implementation of Russian goods. Anatolia Revenka to the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine regarding the non-use by law enforcement agencies of legal action to protect the rights and interests of Anna Zabo and her minor child. Alexia Kayda to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine for the financing of investment projects for housing and social and cultural purposes in the city of Ternopol. Groups of National Deputies (Kydi, Golovka, and others) A total of 4 national deputies) are under the responsibility of the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, to verify the involvement of representatives of the State authorities in peaceful protests by citizens during November 2013-2014, the head of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in the Ternopil region of Vasil Obelszczek, the first deputy chief of the Department of Investigations of Valerius Gil and the former head of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in the region of Ternopil. Olga Mikhailenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the allocation of funds for the completion of the construction of cleaning facilities in the village of the Kakhov District of Hersson. Tetjana Sluz, acting as Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on the implementation of measures aimed at restoring the violated land rights and legitimate interests of citizen Mishchenko Maria Grigorovna. Tetjana Sluz to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, acting as Attorney General of Ukraine, Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, Minister of Interior of Ukraine, First Deputy Minister of Revenue and Assembly of Ukraine, on reports of corruption by ex-Minister of Revenue and Assembly of Ukraine, Alexander Klimenko. Groups of National Deputies (Korniychuka, Tcauca, Pobera) to the executive responsibility of the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, as regards the signs of corruption in the process of alienating the municipal property of Odessa, verifying the legality of decisions on land matters of the Odessa City Council, and bringing officials to justice. Rustama Raupov is under the responsibility of the Attorney General of Ukraine to appeal to Gerasim Matyuk regarding the illegal privatization of his land by citizen Trustika. Rustama Raupov, acting Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, asked Sergey Doulski (the city of Kiev) about the improper investigation of the facts of his beating on December 4, 2013. Mikhail Opanaschenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to create preconditions for the continued socio-economic development of rural areas in the Herson region and the full realization of the potential of its agricultural sector. Mikhail Opanaschenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to provide sufficient gas limits for the city of Genicea Hersson. Irina Farion, acting as Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on the inaction of officials of the Public Prosecutor’s Office of the Bologna District of Kiev and the Glossiev District Department of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in Kiev, and on the possible corruption of the Rector of the National University of Bioresources and the exploitation of Ukraine by Dmitr Melniczuk. Irina Farion to the Minister of Agriculture and Food of Ukraine on the complaint of the resident of Kiev Volodymira Mikhailovich Prosynica on the corrupt actions of the Rector of the National University of Bioresources and the National University of Bioresources and the use of Ukraine by Dmitr Melniczuk and the officials of the University. Roman Ilik to the office of the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the decisions taken by the Lviv District Council since March 18, 2014. Vitalia Klitschka and Irina Heratschenko are under the responsibility of the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Head of the High Council of Justice, the Head of the Supreme Qualifications Commission of Judges of Ukraine for bringing to justice representatives and coworkers of the Public Prosecutor’s System. Alexander Prisznyuk, acting as Attorney General of Ukraine, Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on the use of urgent measures to address the organized criminal group involved in the looting of land in the Zaporozhye region. Andrija Putilov to the executive responsibility of the Attorney General of Ukraine to take the necessary measures and to take personal control for the purpose of a full, prompt, objective and impartial investigation of the crime, as described in article 190 of the Criminal Code, which was introduced into the Single Register of Trial Investigations No. 12121100000676, regarding the citizen of the City of Ivanovna and the protection and restoration of her constitutional rights. Andrija Putilov under the responsibilities of the Attorney General of Ukraine for the conduct of an examination by the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine of illegal actions by officials and officials of public authorities and for the use of measures of prosecutorial action. Anatolia Vitova to the Acting Prosecutor General of Ukraine for the raiding of the Selyan (farmer) farm "TEH-AGRO" (the village of Skobelka of the Gorokhiv district of Volin region). Alexander Crnvolunka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, acting as Attorney-General of Ukraine, Minister of Interior of Ukraine, Minister of Justice of Ukraine, Head of the Kiev City State Administration for the illegal removal of the post office of Kyiv-54, which serves some 18,000 Kenyans and more than 1,200 Kiev enterprises, by means of a criminal scheme which includes the illegal recognition of ownership of the specified premises with further illegal transfer from one commercial structure to another. Oleg Kulinić to the first deputy of the Head of the State Treasury Office of Ukraine regarding the allocation of funds to the Prestige-Heat company for further payment of mandatory payments to the budget. Olga Mikhailenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the allocation of gas pipelines to the villages of the Kakhov district of Herson. Vasila Petovka is under the responsibility of the Attorney General of Ukraine to build the administrative corps of the Ministry of Revenue and Congregations of Ukraine in the Zakarpatsky region. Vasila Petyovka is under the responsibility of the Attorney General of Ukraine for the right to transfer to the long-term rental of the entire sports complex "Zakarpatje" (town of the Coast of Zakarpatski region) with the open thermal pool of the All-Ukrainian Physical and Sports Society "Kolos" APC Ukraine. Anatolia Goncharov is under the responsibility of the Attorney General of Ukraine to investigate the search, removal and arrest of the property of the State Donbas engineering company "DONORGRES". Victor Gubar is under the responsibility of the Ukrainian Defence Minister to raise the level of military salaries. Anatolya Griesenka to the executive responsibility of the Attorney General of Ukraine for the liquidation of the restored "patronate" of the Ministry of Agrarian Policy and Food of Ukraine's corruption schemes created during the work of the Government of Mikli Azarov, with the aim of requiring funds from agricultural enterprises in Ukraine and of taking decisive and urgent measures to put an end to the pressure on entrepreneurs, conducting the procurator's review and attracting high-level employees to criminal responsibility. Vjechaslav Kutov to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the forecasting of funding for the financing of needs, construction and reconstruction of preschool institutions. Omelana Parubka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the use of measures to restore the activities of the Jaskov sugar plant. Vladimir Chuba to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to take urgent measures to fund Ukraine's State Budget for the treatment of children with Gosho disease. Irina Herashchenko under the responsibility of the Attorney General of Ukraine to investigate the murder of a public official, journalist Korsun-Shevchenko District newspaper Nadrossia (Cherka oblast) Vassil Sergeik. Oleg Kanovtsa, acting as Attorney General of Ukraine for the use of appropriate measures of procuratorial response aimed at halting the illegal activities or inaction of the Society with limited responsibility for FORUM-Invest and the State Enterprise Apartmentinbud. Andrija Tabalova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the award of the city of Kirovograd a subsidy from the State Budget of Ukraine to compensate for the costs incurred by the transport company for the transport of the passenger categories. Roman Ilik to Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine - Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine for the inclusion of the cities of Drogobic and Borislav of the Lviv region in the 2009-2014 General Programme for the Reform and Development of Housing and Utilities in the implementation of capital repair, modernization, replacement of elevator equipment and control systems. Ruslan Solvar to the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Ministry of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine, the Prosecutor's Office of the Kyiv Region, the Kyiv District State Administration on the need to properly implement the decision of the Executive Committee of the Fastest City Council of 22 June 2012 on the resolution of the urgent issues of the living conditions of the residents of the town of Zarečja. Ruslan Solvar to the Ministry of Infrastructure of Ukraine, State Railway Administration of Ukraine, Kyiv District State Administration on the need to improve the organization of suburban railways in the Kyiv-Fastev district and improve the system of pay for travel. Vjechaslav Zadrožno to Prime Minister of Ukraine about the allocation of funds for the relocation of residents of the Karnavatka residential estate in Krivom Rose. Vjechaslav Zadrožny to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the payment of taxes on the added value of the enterprise of the merger of citizens of the Krivorizki Training and Production Company of the Ukrainian Blind Society. Anton Kisse to the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine on the allocation of funds for the release of social workers in line with the current labour legislation. Anton Kisse to the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine on the allocation of funds from the State budget of Ukraine for urgent capital and average repairs of roads in the Odessa region. The National Deputy of Yemen to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the measures taken by the Attorney General of Ukraine to prevent the Commissioner of the Supreme Council of Ukraine from exercising human rights of Lutkovsky and the activities of law enforcement authorities during the trial of the Head of the Brok Business Bank Supervisory Board of Bugaya. Sergei Gordienka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Head of the State Agency for Road Traffic in Ukraine, acting as Attorney General of Ukraine on the need to pay debts on salary to employees of the subsidiary "Poltava oblavtodor" and its subsidiaries. Oleg Tuggnibok to the Minister of Health of Ukraine on the need to take action to comply with article 49 of the Constitution of Ukraine on the provision of free medical care to residents of Irpin, and the return of the State Institute for Rehabilitation of Cardiosurgents to the status of the State Department of Health. Eduard Leonov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, acting as Attorney General of Ukraine, Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on the ineffective use of the assets of the Federation of Trade Unions of Ukraine and on the illegal activities of the management of the private shareholders association Ukrprozodovnica and Rosichi. Mr. Eduard Leonov, Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine, Acting Minister of Defence of Ukraine, Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, Head of the Kyiv City State Administration for Information on the provision of Crimean Refugees. Ruslan Zelik and Ruslan Marcinkov to the Minister of Agriculture Policy and Food of Ukraine, head of the Ivano-Frankow Regional Administration, Head of the General Administration of the State Land Agency in the Ivano-Frankiv Region, on the solution of the problem of the use of land for agricultural purposes as a form of State ownership of agricultural holdings located in the territory of the Cologne region of Johno-Frankiv region, under the Academy of Agricultural Sciences of Ukraine. Oleg Zarubinsky to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the establishment of the mental capacity of persons who claim to be in positions related to the performance of the functions of the State and local self-government. Oleg Zarubinsky to Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine on Social Protection of Military Pensioners Igora Ribakova and Mikhail Opanaschenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the non-privatisation of domestic strategically important enterprises and on the implementation of the Final Provisions of the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2014. Eugene Melnik has been dismissed by the Kyiv District Administrative Court since March 25, 2014 No826/3456/14 by Digital Plus and Horizont in Donetsk, by the Networks of Cable Television in the city of Constantine of the Donetsk Region, by the company "Jaskrave TV" in the city of Artemis in the Donetsk region to stop the broadcast of some Russian television channels. Sergija Vlasenka to the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine, Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine, on the inadequacy of spending the state budget on the construction of the administrative complex of the Supreme Economic and Supreme Administrative Court of Ukraine. Alexander Briginz to the prosecutor’s office in Kiev to verify the legality of the establishment of small architectural forms on the green area of the Gulf Coast of Sobache Girlo, in the Obolon district of Kiev. John Bush and Istwan Haydosh are under the responsibility of the Attorney General of Ukraine to ensure full, comprehensive and objective investigation into the actions of the right-wing sector representatives on 7 April 2014 in Vinogrod, who have caused health damage to Vasil Agio and have fueled international hostility, as well as to prevent further illegal pressure on officials by means of political beliefs, language, ethnic or other signs. Oleg Pankević to the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service for the re-examination of foreign observers during an illegal referendum in the Autonomous Republic of Crime on 16 March 2014. Oleg Pankević to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for bringing the regulations and regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine into line with the provision of administrative payment services by the State Migration Service of Ukraine in the production of a passport for a Ukrainian citizen to go abroad. Leonidas Dacenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the amount of natural gas extracted in Ukraine, its prices, the use of it for the needs of the population of Ukraine and the calculation of tariffs on it in the area of housing and utilities. Leonidas Dacenka to the Minister of Culture of Ukraine, Minister of Ecology and Natural Resources of Ukraine on the prohibition of the construction of livestock in the village of Jablounów in the region of Czerka, because of the immediate proximity of him to the cultural and spiritual center of Ukraine, the grave of Taras Shevchenk in Montenegro, and the high ecological danger for residents. Jurya Derevyanka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the preservation of the working group of the Prikarpatski Storm Management Public Stock Company of Ukrnafta and the non-admission of the further decline in the oil and gas sector. Roman Shugal to the Minister of Health of Ukraine, head of the Poltava District State Administration, Seminal District State Administration of the Poltava Region, on the application of measures to ensure adequate sanitation for the inhabitants of the village of Obolon, Seminovian district, Poltava district of Volodymira Gerasimenko in 2008. People’s Deputies ( The guardian, the Vassunika and others. A total of 4 deputies) are under the responsibility of the Attorney General of Ukraine, the head of the Ukrainian Security Service for the protection of the historical and cultural acquisition of the Ukrainian nation-iconostou of the village of Stara Swarevav XVI - 17th century, which, at a high professional level of execution, is part of the world's art and is now at risk of kidnapping, organizing checks on the facts of the misconduct of officials of the Lviv Museum of History of Religion and other interested persons seeking material advantage from the acquisition and sale of iconstoss and the use of appropriate response measures to attract guilty persons to the responsibility established by Ukraine's legislation. Valeria Calchenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the preservation of the State system of the insurance fund of documentation as part of the security and defence sector of Ukraine. Catherine Vaschuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to take urgent action to clear the humanitarian burdens of the charities of the Volin region. Groups of National Deputies (Tomenka, Yavorovsky, and others) A total of 6 deputies) are under the responsibility of the Attorney General of Ukraine for the responsibility of the National Radio Company for the destruction of the state-owned Radio Broadcasting Company. Victoria Bullach is under the responsibility of the Attorney General of Ukraine for the inaction of the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine, for ignoring more than a year’s appeal by a citizen of Dechenk and for not taking action to protect the complainant’s rights. Jurya Orotyuka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, acting as Attorney General of Ukraine, Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, for the criminalization of business leaders who continue to supply military supplies to the Russian Federation. Vladimir Pilpenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the financing of the completion of the construction of an underwater pipeline in the village of the town of Seminovka, the village of the Great Lipnaga district of the Seminavian region of Poltava. Vladimir Filippenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the renewal of the financing of social work professionals and for the non-reduction of their regularity. Irina Herashchenko is under the responsibility of the Attorney General of Ukraine to give legal assessment to the actions and decisions of the Luhansk district council deputies, which bear the marks of secession and treason and which are aimed at the division of the country. Oleni Kondratuk and Irina Herashchenko are under the responsibility of the Attorney General of Ukraine for the purposeless use of funds by former heads of the National Bank of Ukraine for the creation of the TV channel "BTB" and the ex-head office of Sergey Arbuz during the creation of this channel. Bogdan Benjuk to Deputy Minister of Revenue and Assembly of Ukraine Vladimir Homenka on the corruption of former Minister of Revenue and Assembly of Ukraine Alexander Klimenko. Anatolya Denisenka to the Minister of Health of Ukraine for the conduct of an official review of the loss of documents for participation in the program of infertility treatment at budget costs. Anatoly of Denisenka to the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine on the establishment of a simplified system of rehabilitation for persons with a permanent disability group. John Stoyk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, head of the State Forest Resources Agency of Ukraine, on the collective appeal of foresters of the state-owned enterprise "The Black Forest Farm" regarding the actions of the head of the Ternopil district management of the forest and hunting industry of Igor Popadynec. Igor Miroshnicka, acting as Attorney General of Ukraine for the immediate response to corruption by the head of the Lebanese City Department of Internal Affairs, Lieutenant Colonel Yuri Bezuglov, and for the verification of violations of Ukrainian criminal and anti-corruption legislation. Mikoli Dzardanova to Prime Minister of Ukraine, acting as Ukrainian Defence Minister for the financing, maintenance and housing of families of military personnel who have arrived in the Mikolai region of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. And the final request, the honourable national MPs. Igor Yankiv to the Acting Prosecutor-General of Ukraine on the inaction of the authorities of the Procurator's Office of the Zaporozhye District in relation to the crimes committed in relation to the Secretary-General of the Law Enforcement Organization, "Our Word" of Julia Gorbachev and members of her family. These are all questions, distinguished national MPs. Please go to the next item of the order of the day different, and sign up for the performance. Please hold the recording. May I have the floor of the Pharion People's Deputy. Prepare the national deputy to go to Golovkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-11-m0.u121	Ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking, of course, to the Head of the Supreme Council, which he does not always have on Friday. By which it is the magic wand and the foyer of the Supreme Council, the images of the heroes of the Celestial 100 have disappeared. What, you can't look them in the eye. What, they're creating discomfort for someone. I demand that the Head of the Supreme Council and the Supreme Council's apparatus return immediately the pictures of the heroes of the Celestial 100. Rather, it would be much better to take the portraits of all those who presided over the Supreme Council, which usually turns into a supreme betrayal. The reaction to the law of the Rider of the highest public factors today is just brutal. All the disgust is that this Ukrainianophobic chariot is not in the hall, but, instead, its law is in force. "Freedom" will never agree with the law of Kiwalova-Khlysnick. And not just because he's adopted in an anti-constitutional way, but primarily because he's absolutely Ukrainian. We will, by all means and by all means, prevent the operation of this brutal bill. The law. And to all those who are still in favor of the support of this law, I recommend that we go to Kolesnick, who said that he is in Crimea. I think they will actively help him. I didn't mean to say that today, to be honest. But to complete my opinion on the language issue, I will highlight one very dangerous chain. If we open a single country chain into a single country, we'll end up in a single Russia. So I'm proposing a completely different way of doing it: the only language for a single country. And now I'm moving on to this topic that I was going to talk about during the discussion of the Higher Education Act. But somehow the discussion of this Higher Education Law took place at such a crazy pace as a hundred wolves were chasing us. Although it was the law that needed special discussion, it was not simply a second reading. So I'm going to stop at one of the fundamental contexts of this bill, namely, the TNP. We legislatively anchor the work of the NDA in the Higher Education Act. But it is important for us to fill in the quality of the tests that are passed on to the external independent evaluation. Personally, my concern is caused by tests, of course, from "Ukrainian History." Because it is this subject that has a profound impact on the world view of our students and on the outlook of our students. And if we don't fundamentally change the history program now, tobacco ideologies will continue to take place in schools, and then in higher school. I demand it.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-11-m0.u122	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-11-m0.u123	I'm asking the Ministry of Education to immediately change the COD programs to return the concept ideas to the history of Ukraine. First of all, the concept of a national idea is that there was never an end to the war between Ukraine and Moscow. Instead, the COD has removed such important terms as the course of the national-liberal action of Gehtman Mazepa, the policy of the Russian Empire concerning Ukraine, the anti-resistance movement of the Russian Empire. Shut your mouths! Acquisitions of a national movement within the Russian Empire, raising national life in western Ukraine. Imagine, even that annoyed those bastards from the Austrian and Russian administrations in Galician, even the term 'rustration', of course, that would be 'capisation', and the political ruse annoyed them, and even irritated by the term'striggered rebirth'. So now our important task in the Humanitarian Queen is to immediately return all of these terms, which are the foundation of a national-centric worldview. The glory of the nation!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-11-m0.u124	Before you know it, I'd like to invite the people's deputy Golovka. Prepare the Medunice People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-11-m0.u125	Glory to Ukraine! Mikhail Golovko. The All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, Ternopolska. Honorable deputies, colleagues, unfortunately, but we are still in Parliament until today, we have not approved the Law on Illustration, which is so much needed by Ukrainian society and behind these ideals and ideas was Midan. And now they're demanding us, so we hope that in time it'll be approved and we won't have them back in power and remain servants of the Yanukovic regime, all of these criminals. Indignant is the fact and does not escape the Galachina that today and appoint the regime's servants as it did in Ternopolis with the law enforcement authorities, led by a man named Oleszczek Vasil Korneliyovich, who was the right hand of General Mark, who persecuted the patriots, put them in prison, and now appointed the leader of the militia in the Ternopil region. Of course, we have made a number of requests to correct this error immediately. The same is true of Lviv. I was approached by students and lecturers at the Lviv National Academy of Music named Mikolia Lisenka with anxiety and a problem leading this institution by a famous man such as Pilate Igor Mikolaiovich, who. Mikhailovich, who has been in charge of this post since 1999 under the Kuchma regime. As a result, he began his career in the successful campaign of President Kuchma of that time as an agitator, for which he was rewarded with the title of folk artist and the position of Rector. In 2004, the political winds changed and Pilate became a trusted candidate for President Yanukovic, and in 2005 he became an orange contender for justice, for which he was soon rewarded by the new President Yushchenk. With the coming to power in 2010, the political views of Pilate changed and transformed. Once again, he became a pillar of the Yanukovich-Takobnik regime. It is worth mentioning that after the beating of the students at Maidan on the night of November 30, a few days ago, Pilate did not want to sign this under the appeal of the rectors of the city of Lviv do Yanukovic, fearing the wrath of power. And after the tragic events of February 18-21, when the students and the people were shot down at the Mayan of the Celestial 100, it became clear that the Yanukovich regime would fall, Pilate's first run to the side if he had a new power. He felt the overwhelming need to promote the ideals of the Celestial 100 right now, but public students gave him a decent repudiation. Students talk openly about the amounts that occur when they enter prestigious faculties. And also about the sums and other system of so-called services in scientific creativity. Another complaint is that after repairing the dormitory, 50 tools were lost, and they cost three times the cost of living in a dormitory. As a result, Pilate’s family’s income increases greatly.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-11-m0.u126	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-11-m0.u127	I want to say the main thing is that it's not right that we have such high-ranking people in the new Ukrainian state right now. Thus, in the collective, he is not called Pilate, but he is called Pilate of the Lysenka Academy. And of course, I'm speaking as a deputy, and I consider my statement to be a question to the law enforcement authorities, as well as to the Ministry of Education and Culture, so that they can immediately verify the leadership's activities and release him. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-11-m0.u128	May I have the floor of the Medunic People's Deputy. Prepare the National Deputy for Gordonck.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-11-m0.u129	Oleg Medunica, Party "For Ukraine!"Faction of the Fatherland. Dear Chairman, distinguished MPs, distinguished voters! This week, of course, was marked by events in the east of Ukraine. The capture of administrative buildings by separatists, those who possess these buildings with weapons, hide their faces, declare separatist calls, advocate the separation of parts of Ukraine and their accession to the neighbouring state. The law enforcement in Kharkiv worked very well when these offenders were apprehended, and they are in fact being blocked to Donetsk and Lugansk. Of course, these are people who have no right to amnesty. Because you can't do any analogies to any of the events that were on Midan this winter. After all, those who stood on the Maidan never declared separatist slogans. These people stood under State flags and sang the State Hymn every day. What do we see now in Lugansk and Donetsk? Some have announced the creation of republics, and all the administrative buildings have been erected by flags of a foreign state that is aggression against Ukraine in the Crimea, which has seized part of Ukraine’s territory. So there can be no negotiations with such people, because they only understand the language of power, and that force was properly applied in Kharkiv. Of the 70 detained separatists who took over the Donetsk district government of 14 they were tried for robbery and looting, it was a re-detainment. So we see who's taking over the administrative buildings and we see who the Party of the Regions is offering to conduct the amnesty right now. Those people who went to the rallies and demanded more authority from the central authorities for the regions, more financial instruments for community governance, certainly no sanctions can be applied to these people. But those who have come out with separatist slogans should be punished first, according to Ukrainian legislation, and only then can they be considered for amnesty. It's a shame that right now the Party of Regions has mentioned the financial autonomy of the regions, the decentralization. Where were they four years ago when they gained power? Where was the application of their software passwords? Because instead of doing so, they strengthened the vertical that led to Ukraine’s financial collapse. Billions of dollars, over 60 billion dollars in recent years.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-11-m0.u130	Please, let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-11-m0.u131	Support for the coal sector, over 25 billion dollars has been sent as a subsidy to the Donetsk region in the last 4 years. It's not an equalization grant, it's a subsidy. The budget of the city of Yenakiyo each year was filled by nearly 100 million dollars in direct subsidies from the State Budget. Who will now repay these debts to other regions of Ukraine? It was their money that was directed to Donbas. So we agree with those slogans that are declared to be decentralization of power and financial autonomy, but this should be done later, in a strong state, when order and peace are stated in this state.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-11-m0.u132	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-11-m0.u133	Then we'll go back to this conversation.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-11-m0.u134	May I have the floor of the House of Representatives of Gordienka. Prepare the National MP, Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-11-m0.u135	Sergei Gordijenko, faction of the Ukrainian Company, Poltavščina. Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! Today, according to most Ukrainians, the authorities do not want to notice, to talk about the problems of the dollar’s growth rate, the undervaluation of our bracelets, the rise in prices, tariffs and the rising debt on wages. Today, I would like to draw the attention of the government, the Attorney General's Office, the State Agency for Road Traffic on the basis of the wages paid to the employees of the Poltavščina Road Service. At my personal reception, I was contacted by employees of the subsidiary Poltava Oblovtodor and a number of his branches in areas that are not paid a salary for several months. The debt is just a few million. Workers point out that they cannot support their families, pay utility bills, buy food, and medicine. They have repeatedly referred to the leadership of the field and the Poltava region, but the issue is not being resolved. The workers are desperate and intend to block the movement on the national road of Kiev-Harkov-Dožansky. As a result, from this very rostrum of the Supreme Council, I appeal to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, acting as Attorney-General of Ukraine and Head of the State Agency for Road Traffic, to intervene immediately and resolve the problem of paying off debts on wages to employees of the subsidiary "Poltavski oblautododor" and its subsidiaries in the areas. And on behalf of the faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, I demand to protect the interests of the passengers, because this is the same situation in all areas of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-11-m0.u136	Before you know it, I'd like to invite the people's representative of Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-11-m0.u137	Respectable citizens of Ukraine! Simonenko, faction of the Company of Ukraine. The programme proposed by the Government and supported in this Hall by the ruling nationalist oligarchic coalition, a programme that they have proudly hailed as the “Prohibiting Economic Disaster” programme, would be fair and fair to call the programme of economic disaster and the destruction of the people of Ukraine, a programme of belt tightening. Clearly, this is a policy of national treason, it is a policy of social genocide and that truth must be known to people. The most vulnerable segments of Ukrainian society have been chosen by the new old power as the main victim of such policies. Retirement will primarily be required for pensioners, persons with disabilities, Afghans, Chernobyls, veterans, i.e. those who are almost entirely dependent on State support. You have already been deprived of this support: pensions, welfare payments, benefits, salaries for all budgeters, teachers, doctors, employees, public and utility workers and organizations. And these are millions of simple labourers, those who don't have locusts and yachts, who don't fly to Paris to have breakfast, but to have lunch in London. Students with scholarships will suffer except for bread and water at the level of prices and tariffs that actually exist. Schoolchildren and their parents, who have been denied the right to free lunches by the State, are affected by the loss of access to free circles and sections. There's just no money in the budget for that. The collapse of the economy, the rise in unemployment, the sharp rise in prices for everything, the collapse of the bracelet. These are the results of the exacerbation of relations with the Russian Federation. The public service tariffs that have gone up to the heavens, so the biggest increase is to those who live without central heating, mostly peasants. Their tariffs will be raised by 73 per cent. The residents of ordinary two-room apartments with central heating will pay the gas one and a half times as much as they do now. Who lives in three-room apartments and houses of up to 100 square meters. The prices will increase by 63 per cent. Where, then, was the gas of Ukrainian origin that the former opposition shouted about? Where were 20 billion cubic metres of Russian gas? Ukrainian gas at 372 bracelets per thousand cubic metres, not 500 dollars as imported? Why is it that if this gas is used for utilities, tariffs are rising rather than decreasing? I asked the Minister for Sale this question today, but I never got the right answer. Proud statements were made, not the response of a professional professional, a public figure. Conclusion one, respectable citizens of Ukuraina. Ukraine's so-called reforms will just start soon. Therefore, the Company requires: you freeze wages and social – freeze prices. You freeze your salary, pay your pennies for every day you miss your salary. I reiterate my request to the People's Deputies, to ensure that the cable conditions of cooperation with the World Trade Organization are reviewed immediately and that the barbaric looting of my own people for the sake of the International Monetary Fund be stopped. I would therefore like to reiterate, once again, the citizens of Ukraine, with what concern the Company is speaking today from the rostrum of Parliament. Social costs are planned to be reduced, above all. Subsidies to local budgets, for child assistance, will be reduced by 6.3 billion dollars. And notice, for the birth of the third child, the payment and assistance of mothers is reduced by almost 80,000 bracelets. The funding of citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster was reduced by 2.6 billion grevens. Annual assistance to war veterans and victims of Nazi persecution will be abolished. It is I who address you, dear veterans of the Great Homeland War. Ukraine is thus preparing under the Fascist regime for the 70th anniversary of the Great Victory. Subsidies to local budgets amounting to 2.9 billion for compensation for the difference in tariffs for heat and water have been abolished. This is necessarily an additional cost for our citizens and an increase in tariffs. The tragedy that we are talking about today in the Skachinski mine is a legitimate result, and the policy that is being pursued to reduce coal mining financing by 2.4 billion will reduce mining subsidies by 1.1 billion. I would like to draw attention to the elimination of benefits for the free use of housing and salaries for educators, pharmacists and cultural workers working in rural areas. The subsistence minimum is actually returning to the level of January of this year. Thus, no State aid will be paid to poor families and children, disabled persons from childhood, and so on. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that a decision on the planned increase in wages has been virtually eliminated from 1 July and 1 October. I also draw your attention to the fact that in Ukraine today, funding for the treatment of children with tuberculosis has been reduced by almost a third. More than 270 million greaves are declining. In doing so, they practically canceled free food, and I've already talked about it. Authorities today speak of one thing and do as the oligarchs have always done: they do everything to ensure that cost reductions are made only at the expense of those citizens who are in great need of support. That is, once again, the burden of getting out of the crisis is placed on the shoulders of ordinary workers. We, the Communists, have proposed and recalled once again that the real path is the path that we have set out in the anti-crisis programme, which clearly states where to take money and how to complete the public execution. And the last. Is there anything that the current power can do to truly benefit our people? Regrettably, it gives me reason to believe that the current power is unable to do so, but today the same schemes remain corrupt. There's a trade coming.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-11-m0.u138	Mr. Simonenko, please finish. Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-11-m0.u139	What we saw when we burned down the central committee building, stole all the equipment, stole the equipment. All this stealing is evidence of those who speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-11-m0.u140	May I have the floor of the People's Deputy Leonov. prepare for the People's Deputies of Borita.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-11-m0.u141	Edward Leonov, All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, Crimea, Sevastopol. Brothers and sisters in Ukraine! Occupyant in our territory. The Crimean Peninsula has long been occupied by the Russian Federation. The crimes that are currently taking place in Ukraine show that the invader is not going to stop. The invader, through the Fifth Column, through the Communists, through other traitors, tries even here, in the walls of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, to promote his ideas of the so-called "Russian world", which is really a peace not Russian, is a Kremlin peace, is the peace of people who do not want peace. There in Moscow even during demonstrations for the poster "Peace is Peace!" They're arrested and thrown in a liquor store. And that is what these followers of the Kremlin, the fifth column, are now carrying. If something burned in the communists, they'll remember their Illich, "the fire will burn from the spark." This is probably what they have in their basements in their underground porno studios, which were in their office, probably a fire from that spark. With regard to other problems that exist in Ukraine, the main problem now is the help of those who suffer in the occupied territory. The Supreme Council of Ukraine is under an immediate obligation to adopt the Law on Interimly Occupied Territories. The Supreme Council of Ukraine is obliged to immediately adopt the mandate of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to develop a social adjustment plan and support for those people who are now refugees in their country of origin and who do not have that status because they are not approved by the relevant laws and regulations. The Supreme Council of Ukraine is under an immediate obligation to adopt a decree on the status of members of hostilities to those who are now protecting their country, their home country, both in the Crimea and in the East of Ukraine, against those invaders who, through their fifth column, are trying to kill in the middle of our nation. The All-Ukrainian Freedom Union has already launched appropriate legislative initiatives. Oleg Jaroslavovich Tagnibok commissioned me to make proposals, and we made these proposals. But unfortunately, even though this plenary week has been scheduled for consideration and the Act on Occupied Areas with Freedom Offers, and the Order on Recognition of Participants in Warfare, and the Ordinance on Social Support for Refugees, as a result of the Russian occupation. None of these regulations and laws were considered at this plenary week. We demand that immediately until the convening of an extraordinary session, but consider these decrees, adopt these laws and support the Ukrainians who are now suffering in the territory of their own nation from the occupation. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-11-m0.u142	May I have the floor of the People's Deputies of Borita. Prepare the People's Deputy Mikhailenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-11-m0.u143	Please pass the word to Samuel Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-11-m0.u144	Please pass the word to Samuel.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-11-m0.u145	Dear voters, and the atmosphere, the actions that are taking place today in the Supreme Council, are adequate for today's social and political situation in Ukraine. It is disturbing and threatening for the integrity of the state, its complete destruction and bankruptcy. In my view, ineffective, unable to solve the painful problems in the interests of Ukraine, its people are also the Supreme Council. Yesterday’s plenary session was a sign of this. Almost every question discussed between the deputies and the authorities resulted in a deal. All of Ukraine’s inhabitants were Witnesses of this market, especially when the VAT was reduced for medicine. All of you, honourable voters, have seen Arsenius Petrovich from the bar back handing out gifts in the form of pleasure to the demands of individual deputies. The same was true when VAT was removed from grain traders, who, according to Arsenija Petrovich, were put in their pocket each year with a budget of 6 billion dollars. And it really is. After repeated ballots, the fighting behind closed doors changed dramatically, and the positive vote went back to the same 6 billion. The same was true with taxes on the use of nadr, when considering other business issues that were openly and cynically lobbyed by oligarch deputies. People see it all, and it's not why they went out on Maidan. It is time to put an end to the shameful practice of buttoning. Today it's mass: 150-200 deputies and 226-230 votes in the floor. What is it? Don't let the Communists do that, there'd be noise in the media all over Ukraine. From this series and repeated voting in favour of laws in violation of the Rules. It's come down to five to six votes for each of them. That is how the Law on the Reduction of VAT on Medicine was enacted yesterday. If we continue to do so, money will cost us the market day. It's probably worth listening to people: self-resolve, choose touchable, free of charge, from the workplaces of deputies, as the Company suggests. And another nuance. On the rostrum, we often see the same deputies beating themselves in the chest and shouting that they are people. One of them is a pitchfork who bans the Company from blaming the Communists, not himself and the authorities who said they fucked the Crimea, has led to an escalation of the tension in Ukraine. On the rostrum, he makes himself a true lover, a defender of the nation, and urges the Communists to vote in favor of certain laws. What's he doing? Doesn't vote like it was April 4th when we were looking at budget changes. Three times our radical was afraid. We've got a lot of these. Let us, not in words, but in practice take care of people, the integrity and sovereignty of Ukraine, as the Communists continue to do for years. And finally.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-11-m0.u146	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-11-m0.u147	Novograd-Volinska Žitomirska District to Mikolayev, who live simply in the sky, live in starvation and without pay. And they have families, children, and they have become the protection of the sovereign Ukraine. And as for the previous speaker, I'm going to say who did.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-11-m0.u148	May I have the floor of the People's Deputy Mikhailenko. Prepare the national MP Ilik.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-11-m0.u149	Olga Mikhailenko, Hersonian, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine Respectable voters, respectable colleagues! Today, all political forces are actively discussing the concept of a local self-government rephrasing provided by training, which the authors believe should save the situation at the local level from intensifying the work of local governments. I'm afraid that for the time being, and we're not doing this for a year, it would seem, we're saying, and we're proposing the right approach, that local self-government is dying in the right sense, because the State is still robbing it. Who prevents the Government today from allowing local self-government, within the framework of existing legislation, to work independently, at least in the area of the use of the financial resources that the community earns? Think about it. Today, the community pays taxes, in particular for land, and others, and cannot use them in a timely manner. What is more, I'll give you another example: the living money of parents who concentrate in the children's daycare unit, the State, through the treasury, is edging for other needs, and the local councils have been waiting for them to return for months. This practice, noting that it has taken place in the old one, continues under the new authority. The leaders of local self-government, elected by the community, are forced to demean themselves by worshipping the officials of the State Department and asking for funding for some or other expenses. I appeal to the members of the Government. Make a single treasury account of local self-government, with which no one other than local governments would have the right to withdraw the resources of the financial territorial communities. The next problem is why do budget organizations, for example, have to pay children's kindergartens, heating schools as industrial enterprises? At a new price, which is more than 5 bracelets per cubic metre of gas used for heating, at a time when the State reduces subsidies to local budgets. Today it is difficult to pay for the protected articles, and for the capital costs and the creditor last year it is not necessary to say. Contractors no longer endure, turn to courts, local councils will soon be blocked, and local self-government will continue to be self-sustaining. Communists require the Government to take measures to protect them.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-11-m0.u150	Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-11-m0.u151	Take measures to protect the financial resources of local budgets and prevent their use without the authorization of local governments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-11-m0.u152	May I have the floor of the People's Deputy Ilika. To prepare for the people’s deputy Momoto, and Mr. Kowal gives his orders to Mr. Momoto.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-11-m0.u153	Roman Ilik, Fatherland faction, 121st constituency, Drogbychina. Dear Ukrainians, dear fellow MPs! Today, I will talk about medicines or, more faithfully, medicines prices on a topic that is now extremely topical and that is of particular concern to socially unprotected populations. I mean, first of all, the disabled, the pensioners, and everyone who's barely making ends meet today. In fact, in Ukraine, individual medicines are more expensive than 20-30 percent of medicines sold in individual countries of the European Union, some of which are 100 percent more expensive than analogues sold in Russia or Belarus. Of course, the state of affairs that the Ukrainian drug industry is implementing in Ukraine today cannot under any circumstances exercise authority, can not govern people who have a direct impact on these processes. That's why yesterday we passed Law 4645, which relates to the introduction of VAT into medicine. There may be a lot of discussion about this: whether you need VAT for medicine or not -- but based on what we see in a civilized world, especially in the countries of the European Union, we see that this standard works. And the size of this drug VAT is different, starting at 5-6-7 percent and ending at 20. So the size of this tax is different. But was it necessary to introduce this VAT now in Ukraine, as urgent as it was? Let me answer you as the first deputy head of the Health Committee. It is necessary, because otherwise this drug industry in Ukraine cannot be tackled. What's really going on in the pharmaceutical market? Artificially increasing the cost of individual drugs purchased by these grandparents in pharmacies, withdrawals into offshore areas are made. In such a cynical way, these farmers gain profits in offshore areas. In order for this to not happen, this minimum VAT rate, which has been introduced at 7 percent, will allow for a clear calculation of everything imported into Ukraine from a pharmacological point of view. Here we can talk about what could have been done incrementally. For example: first enter the bet 5, 6, and then move on to 7 percent, but it's already what it is. So I think that the draining of money from Ukraine's budget is already impossible. And to conclude, my friends, it is very important for us to listen here, in the session room, to all those responsible who have a bearing, people and representatives of the authorities on financial matters. Because what's happening with the bracelet is happening today.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-11-m0.u154	Please finish the dates.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-11-m0.u155	What's happening with the bracelet today, with the devaluation, what's happening with the growth of the dollar, including the interbank, is causing a lot of questions and a lot of contradictions in society. In order to calm these processes, so that we can hear the truth about what's going on. I think it's extremely important that next week at the plenary all competent officials report on this issue and calm down both investors and citizens who receive both pensions and salaries. Thank you for your attention. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-11-m0.u156	May I have the floor of the People's Deputy Momoth. To prepare for the People's Deputy Stoick.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-11-m0.u157	Alexander Momot, 27th constituency, Dnipropetrovsk. Dear Ruslan Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues, distinguished voters! Almost every day we heard calls from the rostrum about the need to suspend the execution of military orders with the Russian Federation by Ukrainian enterprises. I understand the feelings that have moved my colleagues in this case, and I agree with them. But what's going to happen now at these businesses. We need to understand that these companies are thousands of jobs in those regions of Ukraine where the situation is both so restless and unstable. We want to have a social explosion tomorrow, I don't think so. In our actions and expressions, we need to be guided by one principle: the sooner our economy gets in the right direction, the faster people get attention and concern from the state, the sooner things are normal, and our country won't shake. Today I propose to the government and to you, colleagues, to guarantee at least our largest defence companies government orders for the coming years. In particular, we can guarantee that airlines, tank manufacturers, and armoured transporters, weapons, telecommunications, and other defence companies are ordered. Taking into account the practical loss of our fleet, we can now give a perspective on the loading of our shipbuilding enterprises in Mikolayev, Herson, Odessa, and Kiev. And hopefully we can talk about the Southmash in missile building, the AutoCraz, which can produce both armored cars and military trucks. We can't forget an enterprise like Sparkle, Topaz, Hartron, Fort and others. I realize that today’s economic situation does not allow us to do everything at once, but we are obliged to mark our perspective. Over the month, we need to develop a comprehensive, forward-looking programme to support the defence sector with concrete plans and funding. I'd like to ask my fellow deputies and the leadership of the country to hear this problem. I am ready to participate as much as possible in the preparation of this program, and I ask everyone to join this initiative regardless of their political views. Today, we see what happens if the issue of defense is regularly ignored. Let's not repeat the mistakes of the last few years. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-11-m0.u158	May I have the floor of the People's Deputy Stoyk to prepare for the People's Deputy, Kirilenkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-11-m0.u159	Thank you, Mr. Ruslan. Ivan Stojko, Party for Ukraine, faction of Fatherland. Dear fellow MPs, dear Ukrainians. I want to begin with what my previous colleague, who was in the rostrum, finished. You know, those companies that produce military equipment, they have to work. But they have to work for Ukraine and the whole world. In Russia today, I strongly oppose them from working. Because when we give the same Russia our military technique that will shoot Ukrainians, don't let anyone else do it. But today we'd like to talk about the economy, we'd like to talk about the social guarantees of our citizens. It doesn't work because we're practically fighting the Putin regime. Putina, who became a new Hitler personally to me and most Ukrainians, who has no right to tell Ukraine how we live and how to build a new democratic Ukraine after a regime that not only bankrupted, who not only stole the entire budget of Ukraine, but also did everything to have Putin's aggression here against our holy land with you. Therefore, dear Ukrainians, we must do our utmost today to make Ukraine the only one. And what we're being forced to do, as if the East and the West were different, is not true. In many cases, Russian - speaking Ukrainians in the East want to live in the only great Ukrainian state. They want to live here, to create, to learn, to work for the future of their children. They don't want the fighters to take over the district administrations, they don't want them to have foreign-country diversors there, the representatives of the Russian FSB and the Russian GRU, Genstabu, sitting in masks armed with teeth and telling us how to live in Ukraine. So we have to be the only ones there not to start animosity, not to say that it is as if Ukraine were in the east of another opinion. Dear Ukrainians in the east said the last sociological survey was that they were in favour of living in a single Ukrainian state and no one forbidding them to speak any language. So today, when we talk about Ukraine's future, we need to understand that behind us is the whole world behind us, Europe. Yesterday at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, the session showed that Europe today along with us and it condemned Russia's bloody actions in Crimea, it condemned aggression by taking Russia out by the end of the year's vote and actually being on any representative action by the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-11-m0.u160	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-11-m0.u161	Thus, Europe and the whole world are united with Ukraine, and I think we will do everything we can today so that Putin does not go any further to stop the enemy, the aggressor, the fascist who is on Ukraine’s borders. And for that we have all the means, the Ukrainian Armed Forces are ready to give back. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-11-m0.u162	May I have the floor of the People's Deputy Kirilenko. To prepare for the people's deputy, Dzardanov.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-11-m0.u163	Viacheslav Kirilenko, Party "For Ukraine!"The Fatherland." Dear voters, dear colleagues! I want to draw attention once again to the fact that Crimea was on the threshold of ethnic cleansing. Three weeks ago, a Crimean Tatar activist was abducted by unknown persons. Then he was found dead in the district of Simferopol. Three days ago, in the Simferopol district of Ak-Machete, only because the Crimean Tatar used his own Crimean Tatar language, he was captured and brutally beaten. These ethnic cleansings also apply to Ukrainians in Crimea. Two officers of the Ukrainian Armed Forces have already been killed in Crimea. None of those who did so have been punished. And we don't think he's going to be punished, because all of this is done in the full promotion of self-proclaimed Crimean power. Yesterday, under the pressure of armed men, the head of the Ukrainian high school in Simferopol, the only high school in Simferopol, Natalia Rudenko. Despite the protests of parents, students, and so forth. In addition to the illegal removal of the famous teacher, Natalia Rudenko, who is recognized worldwide and not only in Ukraine, warns and resents not only this but that the only school in Simferopol will be closed and converted to a school with Russian language of instruction. Like the rest of the five other Ukrainian - language schools, only six of which were in Crimea. This means that Ukrainians are practically banned in Crimea. And it is an official policy not only of self - proclaimed Crimean power but also of Putin, Medvedev, and all those who occupied Crimea. Moreover, separatist movements that have raised their heads in eastern Ukraine require increased authority and autonomy. Despite the fact that no greater powers have been given to these regions in the past, the present government is willing to consider these possibilities, but the great limit is between increasing the powers for the regions and declaring self-proclaimed republics that are aimed at dispersion from Ukraine and creation here, continuing the creation of the territory of the Russian Federation. In view of this, we believe that all actions taking place in eastern Ukraine by armed people should certainly receive an answer from the Ukrainian State. People who are set up for dialogue can and should be heard. People who don't want a dialogue but want to shoot guns at peaceful citizens just because they have a different point of view should be held accountable under the Constitution and the laws of the Ukrainian State. And certainly, those who, for the unity of Ukraine and for the European one.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-11-m0.u164	Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-11-m0.u165	For Europe's only Ukraine, they will win. For this is the will of the Ukrainian people, who, by the way, have united this Moscow junta with their aggression against the Crimea and the threats to the East more than ever. And we will surely win. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-11-m0.u166	The people's deputy of the Dzardaniov is invited to attend. Prepare for the national deputy of Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-11-m0.u167	Dear voters, the leadership of the Supreme Council! The world has one serious flaw: it sometimes explodes. And here's the planet on the verge of this explosion, but that's a little bit later. Today I would like to say one thing: the Ukrainian Compartium faction in the Supreme Council of Ukraine is deeply concerned about the social situation of those soldiers who have left the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. About 600 such soldiers and their families are now deployed in Nikolaiev region, with more than 1,000 planned. The district council has allocated about 900,000 dollars for their contents, but that's only 2,000 bracelets for each family. They were usually accommodated on rest grounds in separate dormitories of military units, which were still maintained. But that's very little. For every family today, on average, it is necessary for the State to allocate at least 300,000 at the cost of housing. It's either housing or 300,000 bracelets. The Nikolaev region is estimated at about 200 million. In view of the same situation in the Odessa, Herson, Kiev, a number of other areas where the soldiers have gone, the budget today needs to include no less than a billion to deal with the housing problem for these soldiers. On the job, this problem will be solved. Why, though, is there a problem today with the deployment of troops? Again, living problems in the Nikolaev region. We had more than 200 military units 20 years ago, dozens of military towns. All of this has been destroyed today. The NIIDAR I used to work at, the NI-continuation radio is a horizontal radio station, there's no foundation there today. And there were dorms, there was a dining room, there was a hotel, there was a house. Nothing, not even the foundation. The same situation in Ochakov, Woznesensk, Pervomaysk, where large troops were located. If these troops had kept it, there would have been no problem with housing. And the last. Hitler is happily turning into a grave today. Because of his burning Rigsdag, they are now confidently continuing in Ukraine. In particular, there was an attempt at burning the Supreme Council, you know, a few weeks ago, you set fire to the CD. And those of you who heard that question yesterday are in this room. Remember, don't touch the tiger. You can't joke with Russia either.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-11-m0.u168	Mr. Zardanov, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-11-m0.u169	The Soviet Union had been withdrawn from the League of Nations and World War II had begun. Look, don't let the third one start.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-11-m0.u170	The people’s deputy Yavorowski is invited to attend. Get Kisse ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-11-m0.u171	Dear voters, I have come up to this rostrum to brief you on a unique, pure Ukrainian phenomenon born by Maidan, born of a Ukrainian patriotic, democratic revolution like Automidan. This idea was born in China, in the owners of cars, today it's popular, in fact it's spread almost all over Europe, and this method, the revolution on wheels, actually uses a lot of protest segments in different countries. I'm so glad that I had to be with Automidan on behalf of Maidan, to be at the hottest, most plausible points. The most successful was, of course, a raid, about a five-year-old car in the Yanukovich lagoon, where the rally was held, and we were doing it with Freedom, along with Hit. We also visited Zechariah twice. They went to Pshonka twice. The wheat, by the way, after we went to his house on Sunday and saw him there, he picked up the prosecutors this morning and said, "I had Javorowski twice. Why didn't he have one?" Because of this, I am grateful to Maidan, who took care of my garden and when they arrived in the middle of the night to do their black work and when they saw how many people there were, they turned around and drove away. I'm saying this because I went to the Cabinet of Ministers and I'm asking you to write this down as my parliamentary request that those burnt cars be burned by car activists. Those cars today, when the Cabinet of Ministers sells out their cars, are primarily sold to these motorists who have their cars burned down. Not a lot of them, about 20. And the second. There's my ruling, and I think it'll be set up next week, about creating a commission of inquiry. No finger-to-finger today has been hit to investigate all those illegal acts of auto inspectors who have written a backlog of 20 to 30 calls from those who have seized the rights illegally, and the same courts, I'm sure everything will be in place. And finally, I just can't. I'm done. I can't help but read a poem, you know, Nastya Dmitruk, it's on the Internet. I just want to publish it from the rostrum of the Supreme Council: "We'll never be brothers, Not according to Rodin, not her mother. You don't have a spirit, you're free. We're not even going to be condescending with you. You've surrounded yourself with the elders. We'd be younger, not yours. You are so many, and regret is impersonal. You're huge, we're big. And you think you all do. With your envy, you'll move. Will is a word unknown to you. You've all been chained up since you were a kid. We're at home. You have a silence at home."
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-11-m0.u172	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-11-m0.u173	Two lines more. "You have silence in your house, gold, And we're burning Molotov cocktails. Yes, we have hot blood in our heart. What kind of a mother are you? And we all have eyes that are fearless. Without weapons, we're dangerous. They grew up and became brave. All snipers are on target. We've been knee-deep. We got up and fixed everything. And the rats are hiding, praying. They wash their blood. They're sending you new directions. And here we have the fires of uprisings. You have a king, you have a democracy. We will never be brothers." This is 21-year-old Nastya Dmitri wrote this amazing poem. This is the response of the newest Ukrainian generation to Russian invaders.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-11-m0.u174	May I have the floor of the People's Deputy Kisse. Prepare the People's Deputy Gubarevya.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-11-m0.u175	Dear colleagues, dear voters! I want to translate my brief statement into this economic, social dimension. Just over a year ago, last September, the Cabinet of Ministers adopted the relevant concept of the development of Ukrainian Danube for 2014-2017. This concept reflected the main tasks that had to be pursued in the southern Odessa region. Related mandates were given to the Odessa Regional Public Administration, a working group had been established, which had worked quite effectively, and had worked out proposals that had been submitted to the Cabinet of Ministers in order to adopt an appropriate programme for the development of the Ukrainian Danube, and it would appear that it should be adopted on vital issues such as road construction, energy, water supply and a number of other issues that concerned the multi-national region. But the events that have taken place have unfortunately prevented the adoption of the relevant document. On the occasion of the Supreme Council, I request the Prime Minister of Ukraine, and my constituents demand that the programme continue its work. And I hope that it can be adopted with a delay of execution as soon as possible. But the issues raised there must be reflected and realized in the coming years. And second of all, I want to focus on. An electoral campaign is under way. Taking advantage of the case of a majority member from 142 electoral districts, including Tarutinsky, Artizsky, Bolgradsky, Saratsky, Kilii regions, I appeal to the presidential candidates, to their electoral headquarters. Dear friends, on behalf of my constituents, I invite you not only to visit the district centers of the south, Odessa Province, Bessarabia, but small and large villages. I think this will be interesting for the inhabitants, and you will benefit from further action when elected by the President of Ukraine. And the last thing I want to pay attention to. Today the issue of the language problem that we have in Ukraine has been addressed. I participated in a meeting of the special commission as an observer or simply as a national delegate of Ukraine. Of course, it's a very painful question, but today's introduction and discussion, you know, went so, very quickly, the Speaker of Parliament didn't give everyone an opportunity to express his point of view. What's the big deal? What needs to be done in this direction is fact, but the document that has been discussed has not been given.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-11-m0.u176	Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-11-m0.u177	What's the last chance we're going to send to the Venice Commission? Are all national minorities living in Ukraine heard? I think it's worth paying attention to. Once again, I would like to refer to the Speaker and to you in order to allow the MPs to express their views. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-11-m0.u178	May I have the floor of the People's Deputy Gubar. Prepare the People's Deputy, Baiduk.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-11-m0.u179	Respectable voters, respected colleagues, 22 years of independence lacked Ukrainian leadership to address the very painful problem for Sevastopol. Presidents, former Kuchma and Yanukovic have never fulfilled their promises to initiate the Sevastopol Status Act. The town hero remained the only one in the country whose inhabitants had no right to choose their own measure. In addition, people were outraged by the repeal of the Law." This could have been the last drop to fill the cup of patience. However, the main reason for this is deep disappointment. I'm talking like the oligarchs who own the enterprises in Sevastopol, and that's what these enterprises are leading to. The inefficient owner of the Sevmorzavod in Sevastopol, Sergo Ordzhonikidze, is not investing. Of the 18,000 people currently working at the factory, 400 are working days a week. The debt of a billionaire did not pay off the payroll for another month in February. The wages in this factory are the lowest in Sevastopol, four times lower than in the 13th Black Sea Fleet. The terminal is, therefore, after the transfer of the oligarch Ahmet's grain, so far, apart from the complaints of the population about environmental pollution, there is no explanation for it. The city provided for its existence mainly from the crucifixes of the Black Sea fleet. For the second part of March, the Ukrainian Government did not pay the pension, did not list and blocked the cards. The pension is now paid only through mail and has already been paid for March and ends up paying 25 per cent more for April than the Ukrainian Pension Fund. Most people found it difficult to accept and support the aggressiveness of the legal sector of Euromaydan. The inhabitants of Sevastopol, because of their territorial remoteness, saw at first with horror the captivating remake of the struggle for power, realizing that they were not concerned, but when the chaos that brought the country into the midst of lawlessness, the gang’s grabbing of administrations, the barbaric destruction of monuments, the looting, the burning of the houses of political opponents, the threats of their lives, began to creep out beyond Kiev, people began to realize that the viewers were becoming participants in this terrible cinema with all the consequences for them. This, by the way, has already been redesigned, here is this outrage, in the Supreme Council Hall, where representatives of the Nazi Freedoms are threatening lives. Not becoming an emissary of the interests of all Ukraine, and without prejudice to the influence of the radicalist forces, the new old power from it to the pain of acquaintances and behaviours could hardly count on popularity. And the repeal of the Language Act, supported by the Russianophobic rhetoric of the Freeman Tsagnibok from the Supreme Council's rostrum, simply pushed almost half the country. It is likely that the prospect of becoming second-class people has prompted the awakening of civil self-awareness. The Sevastopols, now knowing that they have nothing to lose without fear, have not hidden themselves, but have come out to rally to defend their legitimate rights without Molotov cocktails and hot covers because they value their city. [[B in m in s a l in]] This temporary power compared the notions of “federalism” and “separatism” by unleashing real terror against the people of the south-east who defend their constitutional rights. For example, two U.S. and Belgium countries that you visit so often, their representations in Ukraine live normally on a federal basis. So, the Company offered to hold a referendum so that there would be no spill of any blood -- power wouldn't listen. We were proposing an anti-crisis programme to get out of the crisis, and power didn't listen either. Maybe you shouldn't have taken loans to the IMF? Thus, if the Sebastopols trust the neighbouring Power more today, not their fault, but the plight of the current Ukrainian authorities, which has not yet done anything for their citizens, has already succeeded in dividing them into their own and their own.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-11-m0.u180	May I have the floor of the People's Deputy Boyko? To prepare for the National MP Mishchenkovi zasporak. Sergey.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-11-m0.u181	Vladimir Boyko, 165th constituency, Ternopilish, "Fatherland" faction. To fight corruption, it must be led more quickly. Such a slogan was used by the previous authorities, and it was the law enforcement authorities who were supposed to combat corruption that were involved in its birth. During the preceding few years, the Ternopil region had a clear and unified system of conquests involving entrepreneurs, forgeters, farmers, and the crimes of officials. The law enforcement agencies have become a real system against other thinkers. As we know, the Ukrainian Security Service has failed its main tasks of protecting state sovereignty, constitutional order, territorial integrity. More and more, the media have published evidence that the BSS has been deliberately contributing to the national interests of Ukraine over the past few years. The numerous facts of the organization of provocations during the peaceful protests of Ukrainian patriots from November 2013 to February 2014 are drawing attention. Regrettably, Yanukovich’s representatives continue to hold high positions now. Thus, the Ukrainian Security Service in the Ternopil region is headed by Julik Ivan Volodymyrovich, who has been inherited from the previous authorities. Instead of fighting corruption and fighting, it seems that the primary task of the head of the district branch office was to appoint his son, Julika Bogdan Ivanovich, to serve as the head of the Road Service in the Ternopil region. Before that, the son of the acting BSS commander in the Ternopil area worked in the same department as now, only as the first deputy chief. The assignment of Bogdan Yulik was in spite of the categorical disagreement of the Ternopolska road workers during the March 31, 2014, meetings. Millions of people who have in various ways contributed to the overthrow of the totalitarian regime of Yanukovic have also advocated the release of the governing chain of law enforcement agencies on the ground. Lustration is a requirement of society. Today, more than ever, there is a need for a return to trust in all law enforcement agencies. No former leader who served Yanukovich, his family, and his immediate surroundings should remain in the State’s service, and more so in law enforcement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-11-m0.u182	May I have the floor of the People's Deputy Mishchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-11-m0.u183	Sergei Mishchenko, 98th District, Kyivshina. Dear citizens of Ukraine! During this month, I received thousands of phone calls and letters regarding the painful question that is being raised constantly in this session room. And I'm asked why he's always being ignored, why he's not being treated all the time. And that's an inheritance question. I'm still being told it's a minor question, nobody needs it, why you're lifting it, why you're blocking the bleachers, why you keep talking about it. I answer to these people's deputies and officials that you have never been in the skin of those who have experienced mistrust. When a farm that costs money in a village moves from parents to their children and then those children pass it on to their children, and those children pass it on again, it costs hundreds of thousands of dollars. It does not have such a market price because the state did not help to build it. And unfortunately, over and over again every year, the family has to pay for itself because the state has given it nothing. And today it was a week, and they didn't put it back up. Why? And that's because there's a cynic block. Because money exceeds what the people need today. Today, none of the officials and deputies shout loudly about the problem. Why should a son or a daughter or a grandson value his possessions? Why do they have to stand in line, thousands of years to form their shell? Unfortunately, today is the kind of corruption that exists in this area, it's the evaluators, it's notaries, it's staying. I thank those faction leaders who asked that question that week to vote for it, that's first of all Oleg Tuggnibok, that's Donya. But unfortunately, these two voices of these two faction leaders were unheard of, and my voice. So once again, I urge all Ukrainian citizens to address the leadership of the Supreme Council, the factions' leaders, the Prime Minister in order to finally bring them to the next sessional week.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-11-m0.u184	Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-11-m0.u185	I want them to ask the first question for the next sessional week to simplify people's inheritance and overcome the corrupt scheme that has been in place for many years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-11-m0.u186	The National MP Black Galina is invited to attend. Prepare the National Deputy for Lashkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-11-m0.u187	The Black Galina, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear Society, today, given the challenges of time, you and I need to learn to respond more quickly to what is happening in Ukraine, and to learn this we have somewhere, unfortunately, even in our northern neighbour. Let's remember that when the invader's boot just set foot on the Crimean soil, the first thing Russia did was turn off all the Ukrainian television channels without exception. She turned it off so that she could uncontrollablely zombie the criminals with her ideological postulates. In doing so, it took Ukraine several weeks to take an appropriate similar step — to ban four Russian television channels that had stimulated separatist sentiments in eastern Ukraine. Likewise, a respected society, a few weeks has taken Ukraine to ban the separatist pro-Russian organizations, which were particularly active in eastern Ukraine, and until this was actually done. Unfortunately, perhaps because of this lost time, very many bad things happened, and in particular, our "liberator" was killed, our brother Dmitry Cherniavsky, who was killed during one of the separatist rallys when he defended the participants in the action for Ukraine's only. The law of illustration in Ukraine is just as weighty a law as it is today. And the need to adopt this law is made up of several things, a few points, but it's worth making the most of two. First. Dear Society, in many areas today, there is no way to release officials who have stained themselves with the Yanukovich regime, because they are all experienced officials, and they are, frankly, quite cunning, know a lot of shears to stay in power for as long as possible. What they are doing today is simply going on long - term hospital vacations. These hospital vacations are likely to take some time. And only the adoption of the law on illustration will allow these officials to be released and to appoint new people to work to build the Ukraine that we promised the electorate. Similarly, the adoption of this illustrative law, as has already been said, will ensure that we are freed from those people who are now in eastern Ukraine, these people are stained by the cooperation with the Yanukovic regime, which are the centres around which they are now turning, and these destructive separatist elements, which, in particular, are visiting us.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-11-m0.u188	Please, let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-11-m0.u189	So the honorable society of adopting this illustrative law is a challenge to society, it's a challenge to our deputies. And our duty is to return to it again next week and do everything we can to bring in the key to peace in eastern Ukraine and the key to the restoration of power, particularly in places. Thank you for your attention. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-11-m0.u190	May I have the floor of the People's Deputy Layashka.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-11-m0.u191	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. For a week now, terrorists in Lugansk have captured and maintained the Ukrainian security forces. When our political opponents -- regional MPs, Communist deputies -- come out to tell us what peaceful citizens are protesting there, I want the whole country to know: in the terror-absorbed security department in the Lugansk region, they have thousands of weapons at their disposal: 800 rifles, 28 sniper rifles, grenades, two large-caliber guns, grenades, etc. They're armed to the teeth. Today's so-called South and East Army Headquarters has called for a "Lugansk People's Republic" to be declared and for ten days to hold a referendum on the entry of this so-called "Lugansk People's Republic" into the Russian Federation. I would like to remind you that earlier the republics had been announced by those who had taken over administrative premises in Kharkiv and Donetsk. I think that for the whole world, and including Ukrainian citizens, it's obvious that these terrorist actions are planned, financed, organized and directed by the Russian Federation services through direct agents and diversorcants inside the country, as well as by agents of influence. In particular, in the Department of Security in the Luhansk region, one of the leaders of the terrorists is Alexi Lerke, a Russian citizen, Valérie Bolotov, a Ukrainian citizen, recruited by the Russian Federation FSB, and other paying agents of the Russian Special Forces. I would like to point out to those luganans who are being manipulated by the divers, that the organizers of the capture of the Luhansk Region Security Service had their families taken to Russia before taking over the premises. Today, their families are in the Rostov region. Each of those who will shoot is promised $20,000 and support in the event of death. I appeal to the authorities to act decisively with regard to terrorists, to act in accordance with the requirements of Ukrainian legislation, and I demand that the Ukrainian authorities put an ultimatum on terrorists, or they immediately lay down their weapons and release their premises, or act with them as terrorists do around the world: either in prison, or in front of a cemetery. There will be no other conversation with the terrorists. Put down your weapons, then we'll talk. A man with a gun is a terrorist. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-11-m0.u192	I'd like to invite the Sabia People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-11-m0.u193	Igor Sabiy, All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, 189 constituency, Hmelničina. Dear Lord Chairman, dear Ukrainians! The spring came, the so - called period of the great milk began, and problems began again with the farmers of milk producers, just as they did each year. Milk processing plants, based on the fact that Russia does not take Ukrainian cheese, are again beginning to lower the purchase price of milk. We know, and we all realize, that today a peasant has only two sources of living money in a village. This is the pension and the money they get for their milk. The processors, despite the fact that most of them are still working on the internal market, are again lowering the price. We demand that the antitrust committee take decisive action to stop these cartel plots. In addition to demanding decisive action from the authorities, we are also proposing a bill to support the natural persons of agricultural producers. As early as last year, I and a group of deputies had registered a bill of 2414a amending the Ukrainian Code of Taxation on the Support of Natural Persons of Agricultural Workers. It refers to the return of a hundred percent of VAT left in processing companies to agricultural producers. Because today, 50 percent of this VAT has been sent by the Yanukovich authorities to a special fund, from which they have actually credited the oligarchs for the construction of large commercial farms. The head of the Freedom faction, Oleg Tuggnibok, will be introducing this bill on Monday on the Conciliation Council for consideration in the next plenary week. The All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, on behalf of all Ukrainian farmers, I'm not afraid to say it, requires the Conciliation Council to consider this bill in the coming week so that our peasants can receive a fair price for their work. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-11-m0.u194	May I have your word, this will be the last one, I see, of the session room of the national deputy Kaidu.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-11-m0.u195	Honorable National Deputies, distinguished Ukrainians! In today's situation, when Ukrainian society requires illustrations of both government officials and directors of state companies, it is a surprise to retain the headship of the government of Krugazbank, which is a friction of the size of a state bank, such as Mamedova,*** which in financial and business circles is referred to as the Treasury of Arbuzov, who was known to have been the custodian of the family. Mamedov was appointed directly at the direction of Janukovic, and his son, Alexander Janukovic, decided on it at the request of the then Head of the National Bank of the Ukraine of Arbuzov. During the presidency of Yanuković, a so-called corruption vertical was formed in the financial system of Ukraine, which provided for participation in the financial schemes of the following people: Abuzov, Mamedov, Kurchenko. Krukgazbank received unlimited access to the National Bank's refinancing and actively participated in the financing of structures that have a direct bearing on the Yanukovich family, such as Kurchenka. Mamedov’s treasury schemes are related to the purchase and sale of currency, especially in the course set for their people, which allowed them to receive profits and share with their patrons. This group has developed and implemented programs aimed at raising the image of the Party of Regions and Janukovitch by actively using public funds. actively promoted the work in the fields and viewed the "Krgazbank" as a structure engaged in the initiatives of Yanukovic and there was also pressure on the workers, on the regular workers of this bank. It's worth noting that the bank's mindless spending is essentially state-owned to carry out a lot of corporate activities, advertising, premium payments, spending on small pocket banks, such as Global, Radiokal and others. Next. It was created by Mamedov at the direction of Arbosov’s new banking association NABU. In fact, this association was not about protecting market participants, and its activities were aimed at controlling banks on the side of Arbuzov. Getting beat by banks for fictitious projects and actually money laundering. Corruption schemes have also been introduced with the largest state-owned companies to maintain on economically unfavourable terms loans, to pay high commissions for the purpose of further distribution of profits. In view of these facts, we consider it necessary to remove immediately from the management of the corrupt government bank and to carry out a comprehensive audit of the involvement of law enforcement agencies that will not only allow crime to cease.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-11-m0.u196	Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-11-m0.u197	Which will allow you to stop the criminal activity not only of the bank’s management but also to obtain additional material to investigate the financial side of the family’s activities. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-11-m0.u198	Ladies and gentlemen, the next plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will take place on April 15, this year at 10 a.m. At this morning’s meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I declare closed. Thank you. Good-bye.
