ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-25-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national MPs! Please sit down, we're starting the work of the Supreme Council. Please prepare for registration and turn on the "Council" system. [[10:04:38]] A total of 298 national deputies were registered. The Supreme Council is starting its work. Ladies and gentlemen, according to tradition, I would like to welcome the birthday of our national deputies. To fight Olga Vasilovna's birthday today. Kutov Taras Viktorovich. To Nichiporenko Valentina Mikolaiovich and Switzerland Igor Aleksandrovitch. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, let's consult. Although we do have continuous work, it is Tuesday and today the leaders of factions and MPs are traditionally speaking. Is there a need for such performances today? There's a need. Then I ask you to sign up for the performance. Dear colleagues, before the factions and MPs start speaking, I would like to draw attention to the priorities of our Supreme Council, namely, the formation of a majority and a coalition government of national trust. It is a priority that we are obliged to carry out this week. Without this normalization of the work of executive power is impossible, colleagues. In addition, I would also like to make suggestions in your speeches on changing the agenda of the Supreme Council's day session, particularly yesterday's proposals, I would like to feel ready and regions, and your political will to include in addition to today's order of day-to-day election in Kiev, as well as in other cities, villages, villages of Ukraine. And I also ask you to focus on that so that we can put it into the agenda. The word is given by the faction of the All-Ukrainian "Freedom" association of the Tragniboek Oleg Jaroslavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-25-m0.u2	Good morning! Oleg Tuggnibok, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear Society, now more than ever before, the highest legislative body of our nation has enormous responsibility for further work not only by our body but also by further work and activity, the existence of the Ukrainian State. First of all, we have very negative signals that the Russian Federation is somehow interested, being, in the breakdown of Ukraine's territorial integrity, it is now starting to take steps on this issue. That is why we feel that it would be most appropriate to listen today to the appropriate forces acting as the minister of defense for the relocation of part of the Russian forces to Ukraine. Rumor has it that throughout the Black Sea, a whole series of military ships with representatives of the Russian Federation Marine Corps are being brought here, other data on the transfer of gintocrylics, other military equipment, possible transfer to the territory of Ukraine. We'd like to have that information. That's why we think it's appropriate to listen here in the walls of the Supreme Council of the Ministry of Defense. The other one. As far as the election is concerned. First of all, we should vote here on the election decree in Kiev, and also in cities where there have been no city heads for a long time. In particular, it's Herson, Mikolayev, Odessa, Chernovići and Cherkasa. There is a registered draft Decree (4198) on the appointment of alternate deputies of the Kiev City Council and the Kiev City Head on May 25, 2014. And we think it's appropriate to raise this question and it's appropriate to solve it today. In addition, Freedom proposes to discuss and vote in favour of the draft Decree (4200) on temporarily suspending the broadcast and broadcasting of certain television programmes. The fact is that today, very intensively, there is an information war against Ukraine on the part of Moscow -- a false, false, distorted information about what is happening in the Ukrainian state. That's why we think it would be appropriate to vote on the above-mentioned draft ruling. Moreover, today we would definitely ratify the Rome Statute, the position of the Rome Statute. We are already preparing all the documents to submit to the Hague Tribunal regarding those high-level owners, leaders, former leaders of the Ukrainian State who are involved in the massacres of Ukrainians. This issue needs to be addressed exclusively in a court case at the international level. But without the ratification of the Rome Statute, we can't do that. Next. Today, the people demand, and are most in time, the approval of the corresponding Law on Illustration. A similar decision is already registered in Parliament. And we believe that we are fully capable today and can vote in favour of this decision. Moreover, we need to realize that the economic, social situation in Ukraine is simply catastrophic. That's why Freedom is proposing to vote on a whole range of impeccable economic laws that will help save Ukraine from the inevitable default. First of all, this is Bill No. 1248, the Return of Capitals Act, which is located and registered in the Republic of Cyprus, offshore zones and other tax-free jurisdictions, or those with a tax benefit. This will allow, with the direct mediation and support of the international structures of those countries where these funds are now, to return the assets and funds seized from the Ukrainians here to Ukraine and to fill the state treasury. In addition, we need to consider very much the issue of abolishing the pension and medical reform that people demand. 1247, there is a bill submitted by MPs from Freedom on measures to eliminate the deficit in the budget of the Ukrainian Pension Fund. The Freedom faction is also ready to support Bill 4063, submitted by the MPs from Fatherland, on amending some of the laws of Ukraine on the abolition of certain pension reform rules relating to retirement, retirement and pension recalculation. In addition, we propose to the Queen of Economic Initiatives to vote in favour of Decree 4188 on the introduction of a moratorium on the alienation of property held in state and municipal property. Dear Society, we are now awaiting swift, decisive, and effective action by society. Let's not let the Ukrainian state be destroyed, let's save the Ukrainian state! And it is now very important that Parliament address all Ukrainians to stop the immediate looting that is now flourishing on the streets of Kiev and across Ukraine. We need to do this now. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-25-m0.u3	Thank you. From the faction of the Party of the region, Nestor Sufric, National Deputy, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-25-m0.u4	Thank you. Dear Chairman, dear fellow national MPs! Today, Tuesday, and a week ago, about this time, we had a chance to avoid the events that took place on the 18th, 19th and 20th. Today, we mentioned a very difficult debate on the faction, which took place exactly a week ago, where we insisted on introducing constitutional reform. There were representatives of Yanukovitch. The President's position is that he's ready, but there's still work to be done. Unfortunately, they did. Clearly, all of us need to remember what happened. The responsibility for what has taken place in the last days, in the last place, is recognized, but it is not only the responsibility of the authorities but also of all who have become the subject and participant of this opposition. Today, we are in pain for those who have died, and we have to conclude that usurping power in Ukraine must be impossible! We need to restore and establish civil order today, security, no matter who views politics. I'm sorry, but that's your responsibility. We are now living under the new Constitution in 2004. This is the Constitution developed by Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko, Alexander Alexander Moroz, Victor Vladimirovich Medvedczuk, and about 300 other Ukrainian national deputies were involved in this work. What are we doing? We're setting fire to their homes. They're burning down their offices. Ruined, robbed. Tell me, is this a new order? In doing so, I want to point out the appropriate response of the new self-organizational organs and the return of the new guardians. We will certainly make sure that the order in the country is fixed as quickly as possible. Now comes the responsibility for what will happen. And here the Party of Regions will not stand outside. We will not follow the principle that our opposition has unfortunately acted against us. We will act on the principle that decisions that will serve as a basis for prosperity and the establishment of law and order will be supported. The principle of "a grandmother lamb versus" is not our principle. But what do we see now? On the one hand, there are calls to the illustration, on the other hand, we see that well-known images are gradually moving to the new majority. We will do our utmost, including by our voices, to support decisions that, I emphasize, will serve for the benefit of society. And we're not going to let it, and we're going to help make sure that the different ones in there are not at the neck of the government or, for example, the tax office, or, for example, the customs office. Today we are looking at what continues to take over administrations in places. It's unacceptable. You'll have the opportunity once you've elected the head of the government to release the heads of administration and quietly set your heads up, wait these one, two or three days. What's going on now? There is one authority in Majdan, and another authority in the square in the other city. Today we have to stop it. I listened carefully to the speech on the ban on retransmission. Let's not start with that. Indignant about the colleagues from the State? Imagine, now our feelings were when the MEPs were here. Today, we are indignant about the passports. But this is also done in Western Ukraine, from Lviv to Moldova. We must be responsible today, and if we are to speak of principles, order, and laws, they must work for all. Of course, today we're not going to allow any interference, and I want to remind you of the events around Tuzla Island. Then, regardless of what we were before the presidential elections, we joined together -- more than 400 people's deputies in Ukraine. But today we must not allow such actions to come after the February revolution. We must do our utmost to respect the rights of people in Ukraine, respect the standards of rights, regardless of who speaks the language, and who thinks in what language. Ukraine is different. But we have Ukraine alone! And that's where we have to stand, and that's what we have to get out of! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-25-m0.u5	From the Communist faction, the word is given to Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-25-m0.u6	Dear voters, respectable citizens of Ukraine! I think that anyone who carefully observes what is happening in our country is thinking about the state, thinking about himself, thinking about his family. And most importantly, what legitimate authorities should be working on and, above all, Parliament is doing everything to ensure the integrity of the state. It is my responsibility to state that the Communists, our party, our faction for integrity, the compatriotship of Ukraine. That's the first one. Today it was mentioned that our European colleagues from the European Parliament had recently been there, and they also asked me this question. I told them clearly that the Communists did not collect Ukrainian lands to give them and give them to Ukraine today. The other one. Let us all think: What was Midan for? To fight against the wayward. The court stood to establish the rule of law in the state. So let's continue these traditions. Let us not be with you in becoming or allowing those who walk under one or the other political powers to be subject to the law. Let's remember, today has officially launched an extraordinaryly unusual campaign, and for the first time in the history of the Ukrainian State, an unprecedented election campaign. All in one voice say that it will be the freest and most democratic. Please tell me, can it be free and democratic when a country is smoking, when a country is destroyed, when it is destroyed? How to live freely and democratically in a climate of blackmail and under conditions where Communists are being brought out today and put on their knees. Is this going to be a democracy? I don't think there will be any democracy. Because each of the political powers has the right to practice their ideas if they do not conflict with the Law on Political Parties if they do not conflict with the existing Constitution. And so I would very much like to stop taking over the premises. Until now, we can't release the central committee, until now, there are riots in the areas, and until now, there are persecutions by the dissidents. You and I need to put the law into practice. I spoke to the Conciliation Council yesterday, and I repeat, we are very passionate supporters of the speedy resolution of the conflict in the state, that is to say, the creation of viable authorities. We persuade those who are in power today, rather form a coalition, form a government, and take responsibility, and set up a system in the country. We clearly state that any action aimed at improving the lives of the people will be supported by our faction. At the same time, I repeat that we are not taking, we cannot and will not participate in the formation of coalitions and governments, and, of course, we will not vote on personnel issues, and you should get out of this. We, the honourable voters, I address and I want you to remember these words, and then you come back to them: tomorrow or tomorrow, maybe there's only one chance after tomorrow when we can decide what hurts and burns you. In these days, and not later, if we don't decide, we can't decide later, we can take legislative acts with you that cancel the so-called pension reform. In these days, not later, we could and should be obliged to make a decision with you regarding a so - called medical reform that is not in the protection of human health but that results in more mortality than life. Yesterday at the Conciliation Council, representatives of the other forces spoke, and the drafters of the bill, but we strongly ask to overcome the President's veto on these days for the Heritage Act. And each of you, especially the majors, and each of the deputies who meet with the people, understands what a huge road this is. I think there will be 300 votes in this session room to make this decision. I am not tired of repeating that in these days, before the government is formed, we should stop and impose a moratorium on political, politicized issues, on matters that lead to the disunity of the state, on matters that do not unite us, and on matters that cause an explosion and cause dissatisfaction in society. And in closing, the honourable voters, the honourable colleagues, I'd like to look at the analogy, and let's all think together about what I'm going to say. Nine years ago Maidan was also standing, and nine years ago he was also a godfather. Two days ago, he was 60 years old. Anybody remember? So don't make any mistakes! Listen to the people and act in the name of the people! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-25-m0.u7	From the Strike Party, National Deputy Karpuntsov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-25-m0.u8	Before a representative of the UDA faction says, there is no information for the Ukrainian people: there are no stars on the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-25-m0.u9	Respectable citizens, respectable colleagues! The Vitaly Key faction wants to draw your attention to something. People in Midian did not die for that purpose, so that some in power could change their ways and not change the principles of work in the countries. We will not take part in the voting for documents that are not previously posted on the site of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, with which citizens of Ukraine have not been able to get to know them, those projects on which there are no conclusions from the scientific and expert administration, the legal administration, those documents that have not yet been made available to the public, which have not yet been made available to the Ukrainian National Deputies. We will not act on this principle now, because the time of due diligence has passed. We need to pay attention to other things. I'd like to draw your attention to the next one. Local self-government: local authority should be in the hands of the community. Therefore, we must make sure that the local self - government authorities in those cities, villages, villages where the elections are not yet scheduled. These elections should also be scheduled for May 25. The question is: The question of personal voting. Today we will vote on a significant decision to execute the European Court of Human Rights ruling with Judge Volkov. It was hard work. Only a personal vote. Fellows, I'm once again calling your attention not to happen as it did with the "harkov treaties" that now allow for the sowing of separatism in the Crimea. We're not going to have any culinary negotiations about forming a coalition. The crowd must know everything! I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that individuals like Pantelemonov on the First UT Channel should not be ashamed of journalism, but resign because this channel distorts reality and sows in the community of despair, and that is not something to be done. We need to get everyone together, the whole of Ukraine is the only one. I'm drawing your attention. The work of law enforcement agencies, courts, and prosecutors, I personally took part in the procedure for the release of lawyer Smaliya from the Lukyanovo S.I.O. Yeah, it's been a long time. Yes, I was sitting at S.I.A. from 1:00 to 7 p.m., but we endured all the legal proceedings. There was a video conference that we couldn't handle for a long time, we found a criminal case, the prosecutor filed a case, there was a trial. In a legal way, Smolius was released. I'm asking you to pay attention to that. The administration of the colony, the administration of the institution, did not interfere. In all subtle matters, we must make legal literacy decisions. We can't release the Lutkov procedure for the loss of validity of this act. This person should be held accountable for breaking an oath. — Article 9 of the Law. Dear community, dear colleagues, I would like to remind you once again that people have not died to change each other. People died for the truth, for conscience. Thank you for your attention. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-25-m0.u10	Thank you. From the Fatherland faction, who do we have? Arsenius Petrovich Yacenuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-25-m0.u11	Honorable National Deputies, Honorable People of Ukraine! The country is in extremely difficult political and economic conditions. And the whole country has scars on its heart after innocent and unarmed snipers were shot at Maidan. The country needs to heal its wounds and help every person who has deep sorrow and deep regret over the terrible events that have taken place in Ukrainian history that have affected millions of Ukrainian families have helped to heal these wounds. Order and legality are urgently needed in the country. The government, which was, destroyed the foundations of justice, built not even a mafia, but a mob system, a system based on corruption and murderers. And once again, to the killers. Yesterday, plans were published as to how Viktor Janukovich, the minister of former Zacharychenko, and their immediate surroundings planned a clean-up operation for Midan. These were to be, not hundreds, but thousands of victims. And if it wasn't for the Celestial 100, which actually saved thousands of lives, these monsters and these inhumans who were planning the operation, who were giving orders to shoot people, even put out so-called filtration squads in all the streets of Kiev. These were among the fascists who were to hunt and hunt people down. Now it's clear who burned down the union house. It was expected that there would be a great many people, including opposition deputies, all of whom would be burned to the point of not identifying persons and counting those who were missing without news. For this there is only one way – the International Tribunal and The Hague. [[Applause]] Now we need to calm people down. In fact, start rebuilding the country. To rebuild a country destroyed economically, politically and worstly, they tried to destroy morally. But it didn't work. Those millions of people who have risen up and chosen their freedom are the only guarantee of our country's preservation as the only whole country that will all be a member of the European Union. Yesterday and the day before yesterday, I received information about what was going on in the Ukrainian economy. State punishment's empty. Unpaid expenses for several weeks. Local budgets were owed over 20 billion dollars. Paying off foreign creditors nothing and nothing. And that's why we need to form a government immediately and urgently. It's a government that's going to take on all the negatives created by the previous government and the previous president. But this is the government that needs to realize its responsibility to the country, not to think about ratings, not to think about political activity and political activity, but to think about just one thing: how to save the country and get it out of the pit where it was driven by Viktor Yanukovic and his environment. Such a government should immediately resume negotiations with the International Monetary Fund. Yesterday we had talks with Catherine Ashton, the EU High Representative for Foreign Affairs. The other night, I spoke to the U.S. Minister of Finance after the meeting of the Great Twentieth, two foreign ministers of Germany and France, and Angela Merkel, chancellor of Germany. Europe is ready to support Ukraine. But only support for a new government, a government of national trust. I would like to address all of them once again in public with the principles of forming a new government. There's no coolness in forming a new government. This is the task that stands before us. As part of the new government, and yesterday we held our first consultations with the Maydan representatives, the Maydan representatives should come in. It's like Musei, who's in medical care, it's Ola the Mantis, it's a flower that can do education, it's Lucenko Igor, it's Ruslana. These are the people. This is Eugenius, who spent 90 days in Midan holding this Midian. These are the people who associated themselves with the victory and chose this victory.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-25-m0.u12	I'm asking you to give me the opportunity to finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-25-m0.u13	Today, too, the principles of one who can join a new government and who cannot join a new government have been made public. Principles that provide for honesty, transparency. Principles that determine that those who are oligarchs and those who have been in power since 2010 cannot be members of the Cabinet of Ministers. We fully and fully share these principles. The legitimacy of the new Ukrainian authorities is not a procedure for voting in Parliament. In Parliament, we will gather most under a new government. The legitimacy of the new Ukrainian authorities is the trust of millions of Ukrainians who stood and fought in Maidan. This is the trust of millions of Ukrainians who fought for their freedom. It is the trust of those who yearn for change. Only under such circumstances will this government be legitimate, and this government will be able to save the country. Thank you for your attention. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-25-m0.u14	Dear colleagues, the word is given to the head of the parliamentary group "Economic Development" – Anatoly Kinach.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-25-m0.u15	Honorable National Deputies, distinguished compatriots! Our country of Ukraine is in a deep socio-political and socio-economic crisis. And as never before, we need a cold head and a warm heart. We are confident that the unification of the People's Deputies of Economic Development, which is the most important task today at the expense of joint efforts to ensure the irreversibility of a peaceful legal exit from the social and political crisis. A great tragedy has taken place, and the guilty must be punished. At the same time, it is important to understand what Ukraine is feeling and, above all, Ukrainian citizens, the impact of the enormous manifestations of the systemic socio-economic crisis. And we must not allow the problem of political crisis to be added to the deepening of the socio-economic crisis. Problems, risks, and unprecedented increases. And this will definitely affect all aspects of Ukraine's national security, including territorial integrity and statehood. We are confident that now is not the time to engage in opposition schemes. All today, regardless of political color, must unite their will, their intellect, their resources in order to bring Ukraine out of a very deep crisis. I'll allow myself some comparative characteristics. Ukraine, with its vast scientific and technological, industrial, potential, natural, human potential today, has all the basic qualities of economics, competitiveness, the quality of life of citizens in both developed countries and most countries, already in post-Radians space. Today, Ukrainian citizens are in one of the last places in Europe. The internal market is essentially a dedicated import, and 60-70 percent of the consumer goods are now produced in import directions, and so we finance jobs abroad and fill out foreign budgets. The most basic concerns are the problems related to Ukraine’s non-admission to be turned into a raw material, into an import site, an exporter of cheap skilled labour. All of these questions can be united in one goal, all of which should be felt, as a minimum, by emphasizing what economic patriotism is. There are strict competition laws in the world. That state that's unconsolidated, that doesn't know the whole perimeter, whether it's the West or the East, protect its national interests, that state will never have a decent place in the world, and we can't allow this scenario to develop. The most important thing is the restoration of the system of government. We clearly support the need to create the terms of the coalition in a compressed state, as required by the Constitution of Ukraine. It's very important to stress that the coalition has to do the top priority by coming up with a very complex balance. Delegating to the Cabinet of Ministers with experience, with high state and moral background, and clearly solving the problem of restoring trust in power as such. I want to point out that the parliamentary union Economic Development does not claim office portfolios in the government. But we will unite our efforts in all directions that are in line with the economic, political, national interests of our nation and are willing to cooperate with both the Cabinet of Ministers and the government on the basis of the priorities of the interests of the State, society, the economy. Most importantly, we are sure that there is a need for a clear understanding that the formation of modern European, international standards in Ukraine is irreversible. And this is the task of Parliament, the government, as soon as possible, to form an appropriate national adaptation programme for Ukraine to associate membership, to adapt Ukraine to the conditions of free trade, both for corporate security and for equal competition, and for the rule of law, and for the quality of life of citizens. Dear National Deputies! We urge everyone at this time to address all problems, not in the context of the current personal or political situation, but rather to unite efforts in the direction that shape the irreversible European, competitive democratic state of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-25-m0.u16	From non-fractional, distinguished colleagues, the word is given to the national MP Mishchenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-25-m0.u17	Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! I'm not going to the faction leaders right now, I'm not going to the Supreme Council, I'm not going to the group leaders today, I'm going to go to each of the national MPs who are in the session room today. I'm asking for your support because what citizens of Ukraine are now demanding is that I now have what's happening in public receptions, in the Supreme Council, telephone calls, letters, regarding the only law they're asking to adopt right now to understand whether they were dying for it or whether they were standing on Maidan or, in fact, improving it is going to be like not promised that improvements are already today. So do this improvement today for those who have just promised and not made it. What am I talking about? I've been in the past five years of the convocation, and I've been fighting for a year and a half for a single law, which is the Heritage Act. Three hundred votes in the last vocation, at the end of the last vocation, was given by Parliament as one. Now Adam Ivanovich said we would find 300 votes here freely. What am I talking about? I know that it is necessary to make sure that the son or daughter does not pay for the paternal home, for the land, for the inheritance they have left. Because you can imagine, in areas like Kiev: Zgurowski, Jagotinski, Preeslaslovski – 10,000 small houses cost a change. And the state helped these people build this house? So the father gives his son, the son passes it on to his son, the son passes it on to his son, and this ten thousand-dollar house is already worth more than it's worth, its estimated price, and everything else. Finally, we must put an end to this corrupt scheme. We have to make sure that there's just a government duty, so that there's not an estimate for the first and second categories of relationships, so that we don't take these costs to the citizens. What's going on now? In every citizen of the rural area, two or three notary's district centers, thousands more to inherit. When our head of the Soviet Union formed this inheritance, did someone say that he could not do so? And now he's going to learn to transform the heritage into places. Moreover, the Supreme Council supported my bill by 300 votes. How long can I be screaming from this rostrum about this bill? So I'm asking every deputy right now, regardless of the major districts he's gone through, or he's gone through the list, to think that you're all going to pass on an inheritance, that you've all received this inheritance. I was told here before I spoke by some deputies: Sergei, why are you asking such a question? It's a little bit! I tell them it's so indignant that I say you have money, so for you, it's "little boy," you go to the notary, and you don't get this inheritance. For you, it's a "milk"! You've asked millions of people who just passed this procedure, is that a "milk"? So, I'm talking to Ukrainian citizens, and I need your help: call your majors, call the faction leaders, come to the Supreme Council. If we don't press the Inheritance Act today, they're all going to talk about it, because what they just told me about this "little thing" for them. There's rich people sitting here, and for them, it's "milk." They're going to form a government and they're going to forget about the legacy and the pension reform and the free privatization of the land because there's not one word in the 121st article of the Earth Code: not "free land transfer," but "free land formation." This is my bill, too. Finally, remove the corruption scheme for land management. You promise! You do now to make people feel that from this revolution they have something left in their pockets, not to leave the corrupts behind. So, Ukrainian citizens, I'm going to look at the applause of the Supreme Council supporting me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-25-m0.u18	Dear colleagues, taking into account the presentation of the Mishchenka People's Deputy, I have been instructed to include this bill in the order of the day Thursday. Dear colleagues, please give the opportunity to speak to the People’s Deputies of Popescu. And we'll make decisions about the agenda.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-25-m0.u19	Thank you. Fellow dignitaries, at this troubled time, I ask all the political forces and their leaders to call their supporters to peaceful and tolerant treatment of others. You need to calm people down, you need to stop the political moods and the panic moods that are now there. I'm asking that in the Chernobyl area there be renewed radio coverage of the global Ukrainian news in the mid-waves, because people hear panic over rumors, not radio. At the same time, we should give people hope and claim that no one will try to take over churches or monasteries. Today I received a call from the ruler Longin of the Banchny Monastery, the one who adopted 400 children, and shared his concerns about what is happening in the area. So we ask everyone to stop and not take steps that lead to interfaith and inter-ethnic conflicts. We all need peace now, and we need to choose a government as soon as possible. Thank you. And may God help us all! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-25-m0.u20	Dear colleagues, let us make a decision on the order of today's meeting. I would like to remind you that we have heard proposals that have supported inclusion in today’s local elections. I would ask that we make such a decision. The only thing I don't see is the head of the local self-government committee. We also have one more question in Kiev, except for the selection of the district councils. The only problem here is how far our question is drawn up legally. And I would like to ask the committee to consider this subject immediately and to make a proposal to the nearest meeting. And now, colleagues, for us to vote on the elections in all cities, villages, villages, which should have taken place, which had collapsed in the last year, which had been deliberately prevented. We need to reinstate local self-government with you now. The only thing I'm calling your attention to is the principle of the matter. The Supreme Council should set an example and act within the framework of the Constitution and Ukrainian legislation. These are principled things. We cannot do what anyone wants or does better. We must do as the Constitution and the law require. That's why we're going to talk about the extra election. This is a principled position, this is a requirement of the Constitution. And in that context, I'm asking that we consider the question. I'm told by the secretariat that they don't need to be included in the agenda. But I understand that the Supreme Council does not deny that, after we have considered the small cluster of issues that are being proposed, we are immediately starting to discuss and vote effectively on the selections. Is there no objection? None. Dear colleagues, on the order of the day. Valery Vasilovich Packana had a comment regarding Law 4256. We consulted the head of the committee and decided that the committee would finalize the law and that it would be introduced at the next session. Next question. Regarding the proposal made by Sergei Grigorovich Mishchenko. Dear colleagues, I suggest, in view of the fact that the matter is really relevant. Let's say that when the apparatus is ready to prepare it, we will now vote on the readiness of this issue. Is there no objection? There's no objection. Now, dear colleagues, I see many hands, I see many suggestions and wishes. I want to ask you this question. Dear colleagues, in your speeches, practically everyone, have raised very painful questions for our country. One of our main fundamental tasks that all Ukrainians, who now live and see what's going on around us, are to stabilize the situation in our country, to restore the rule of law and order, is to share our responsibility with you. And that's why the formation of a government of national trust is the kind of haircut that will hold the whole system of power. That's why, dear colleagues, I'm addressing the faction leaders, the leaders of the parliamentary groups, and I'm commissioning that on Thursday the coalition government of national trust should be voted on. Day, night, consult, negotiate, publicly, but Thursday’s decision should be taken. We don't have any more time. Period. Dear colleagues, taking into account the suggestions made, I ask that you identify yourself and maintain the agenda for today's meeting. All the other questions after the formation of the government. Period. Please turn on the " Rada" system. Please sit down.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-25-m0.u21	This will be entered into the local self-governance package. We'll put it in, we'll look at it. We made a deal. Dear colleagues, I'd like to vote in favour of the proposal for the agenda, please. [[10:57:03]] For 263 Decision taken. National MP Rudzkowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-25-m0.u22	Dear Alexander Valentinovich, distinguished national MPs, we need, if we are to vote on the election of the city’s head, Alexander Valentinovich, to also prepare changes to the law in order to unite the authority of the city’s head and the head of the administration, for this was within one person, of one authority. That's the first one. The other one. Ladies and gentlemen, I am addressing you and I think we need to take into account the fact that we have adopted a new Constitution, Your Honor, as we extend the powers of the Supreme Council, we should vote on the date of election of the Supreme Council for a new law proportionate to the open regional lists. And the last. 4225 is the law. Also, 3380 is about pension reform, a return of 55 years.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-25-m0.u23	Dear colleagues, I repeat that I do not deny important suggestions. But we will all consider them after the formation of a coalition government. Turn on the microphone to the national deputy of Labunski.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-25-m0.u24	Thank you, Alexander Valentinovich. I think we're going to continue to fight the abuse of power that you're doing today. I want to see all the colleagues in this room. Tell me, please, let's remember what people went out for on Maidan. They went out to Midan to have European values in our country. And what do we have today? Alexander Valentinovich, I know I'm talking to myself, but I want you to hear that European values are democracy. And democracy is the rule of law. And if you don't stop what's going on in the Supreme Council today, revolutionary relevance is over. Why do you change the laws that have been passed? Tell me, please, this is the day's work. I voted against it. Because I got a day's work out of three questions, including Judge Volkov. And there are so many questions. There's nothing else. And tell me, please, how many votes will you vote if you don't give out anything? When neither men nor deputies have any.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-25-m0.u25	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'm going back to the decision we've made. In addition to a small block of questions in the agenda, we are voting today on a large package of out-of-order elections. I'm asking you, dear fellows, to start working. We have priority tasks that we will do. Please turn on the speaker of the representative of Labunski so that she can finish her performance.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-25-m0.u26	Thank you, Alexander Valentinovich. I can sit there, yes, or I can finish here. So I want to tell you that if you think there's going to be such a usurpation of power, there won't be. You're blocking the rostrum, and you think if I'm non-fractional, I'll keep my mouth shut? I won't. I want to warn you that you are assigning people today who do not meet the qualifications of today's laws. And I told you yesterday that there would be consequences that would be unpredictable. All the decisions made by these people are not legitimate. And then what, are you gonna put a gun to the judge's head to get them to make their decisions? No, they won't. Alexander Valentine's Day, I think on behalf of most of the halls, stop the vacchanal. We must be an example of a democratic state where the law is one for all. And all of this needs to be done, as the Rules are today. Stop doing that. Let's confirm the order of the day by the laws that we see and then not change them that you sign. Thank you. And I won't keep my mouth shut anymore. And don't pretend you can't see me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-25-m0.u27	Thank you for the good suggestions made by the National MP. And I am sure that this is how the whole Parliament will work. It's working within the Constitution, within the limits of legality. And after the formation of a coalition government, all of our laws will go through expertise and government, including the expertise of all of our committees. And that's why, honourable colleagues, the reduced number of laws in today's agenda, in order to pass laws, only those who have passed committee expertise. Dear colleagues, I ask that we begin our work. Please sit down. It will be possible to speak from the procedure. Dear colleagues, you and I have approved and incorporated into the agenda a bill authorizing the President's executive responsibility to sign the laws. What is it? The point is that several laws had already been passed when we gave the mandate to the Chief of the Supreme Council to carry out the duties of the President. And it is for these laws to be signed that a decision is required. I'm going to announce it now, and I'm going to ask you to support it. The Supreme Council of Ukraine decrees (this Decree 4261) to authorize the Acting President of Ukraine and the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Turkinov, to sign the laws of Ukraine, adopted from 21 February 2014, until the exercise of the respective powers of the President of Ukraine. This Order takes effect from the moment it is adopted. Dear colleagues, there is a proposal to vote on the basis and in general, without discussion. Is there no objection? None. Please vote. Who's in? Please vote. [[11:03:46]] For 316 Thank you. Please vote. Dear colleagues, we have made decisions, we have made decisions as a whole. And now I would like to request a further meeting to lead Ruslan Vladimirovich Kosulinski. And I need to meet with the leaders of the power structures at your disposal, because in some regions of Ukraine there are very dangerous manifestations of separatism, and that is what needs to be localized immediately. Thank you. And I ask Parliament to continue to work.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-25-m0.u28	Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to further work. Bill No. 2042 on the implementation of the European Court of Human Rights ruling in case No. 21722/11 "Alexandar Volkov v. Ukraine" is being introduced. The rapporteur is Ukraine's national deputy, Catherinechuk Mikola Dmitrović. Please, Mikolo Dmitrovich, are you ready to report? Please. Mikola Catherinechuk, are you ready to report? Please turn on Mikoli Catherinechuku's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-25-m0.u29	Mikola Catherinechuk, European Party of Ukraine, Fatherland faction. Dear national MPs, distinguished radio audiences, and those who see us! This is a ruling that restores in its civil rights a judge of the Supreme Court of Volkova, who, according to a decision of the European Court of Human Rights, was found to have been released from breach of procedure in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. This decision reflects our attitude toward an international institution such as the European Court of Law and enables us to resolve all issues related to other decisions. This will be the first precedent when we reinstate the judge in connection with the decision taken by the European Court of Human Rights. I'd like the people's deputies to support it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-25-m0.u30	Thank you, people's deputies. I see your hands are up. Then with your permission, I'll ask you to sign up for factions and groups. Please sign up. Please turn the system on. Communist Party, Cibenka. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-25-m0.u31	Thank you. Communist faction, Peter Cibenko. Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! Of course, the decisions made today to implement the decisions of the European Court of Justice certainly need to be upheld. This is beyond a doubt. But I would like to go on with the subject that started today, so that we all let people understand that what was said that everything that was happening in the country was being done for people to see real confirmation of it. I want to say, as chairman of the Social Committee, that in Ukraine today is a very difficult situation for solving social problems. So I insist that the bill 2547 (this second reading) be included in the agenda of the day in the coming days – on the introduction of pennies for late payment of wages, as well as bills (4063) – on the abolition of pension reform and (2661) on the abolition of medical reform.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-25-m0.u32	Here's to the words of Žuravsky, Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-25-m0.u33	Dear colleagues, of course, everything constructive that will be given by today's power, we will certainly support it, because in the country we need to support stability – certainly. But we must be law - abiding. You can't take any draft decision out of the voice, including this one, which is extremely important. I will personally and the faction will vote in favour of this draft decree. But, my friends, don't make mistakes, hand out the papers first. We should get to know each other, not vote blindly for a document. So even a draft decision, any draft decision, should be considered first on the profile committee, on the faction, and then here. Please listen, for you will then be criticized in the same way that the previous authorities criticized you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-25-m0.u34	National deputy of Switzerland, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-25-m0.u35	Igor Schwaika, deputy faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. The Society, I would like to emphasize and remind our citizens, the TV audience, the radio audience that one of the key problems in the Wolf vs. Ukraine case was a problem that is not yet settled and not understood by the people's deputies today is the issue of personal voting. At this point, we have come to the need to adopt a decision, which is one of the software principles of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Association, which is an electronic voting system based on a dactiloscopic principle, which is a fingerprint. In addition, Mr. Chairman, I would like to stress and suggest that we include in the agenda after the appropriate distribution of Bills No. 4230, on conducting a illustration in Ukraine and 4206 on the elimination of the Special Unit of the Berkut Police. These are the key requirements currently required by all Ukrainian society. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-25-m0.u36	Thank you. National Deputy Ariev, Fatherland faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-25-m0.u37	Dear colleagues, of the European themes that we now have to consider, are two urgent subjects. The first is the ratification of the Rome Statute. Ratification of the signed Rome Statute so that cases can be brought before a court in The Hague, I stress this for the second time. And that's what we have to do today. And another bill from my colleague, Andrey, No. 4257. This is a bill that introduces the Council-3 system and prevents not a personal vote, which is the same as the Council of Europe's decision. We have to do it now.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-25-m0.u38	Please turn on the microphone to the National Deputy Heratchenko, the Vitalia Klicka faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-25-m0.u39	Please pass the word to Mrs. Labunski.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-25-m0.u40	Thank you. Please give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-25-m0.u41	I thank you very much, probably soon I'm going to ask for the impact faction, because you've usurped power like your predecessors. First of all, Mikolo Dmitrovich, I want to address you as a professional lawyer, not as a professional lawyer. You are once again trying to be revolutionary about breaking laws in Ukraine today. Exclusion, rescission of his release, can't be done. There is an order for the execution of decisions by the European Court of Justice. And I'm the head of the decision-making committee for today. And second of all. I just want to call the whole room and remind you that this person has no moral right not only to be a judge of the Supreme Court, but a judge at all. And I want to remind you how this man, if you'll excuse me, as the head of the Military Chamber, has abolished a criminal sentence without his colleague in the equal trial that fought the Equal Mafia and raped him. And not one judge.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-25-m0.u42	Thank you. Dear people's deputies, I see, a great discussion now. The big discussion is coming up now and there are a lot of questions. Then let us sign up now, all the national deputies for the performance. And then there's Michaela Catherinechuku, the drafter of the bill. Please let the people's deputy in Labunski finish. I'm still asking you to bet on the Rules, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-25-m0.u43	Well, you let others finish, let me finish. Thank you. So I want to tell you that this person has no moral right to be a judge. There really were breaches. He was looking into things with his best men. And I call on the entire room: if you think the decision should be. It's not a legal decision, it's not a legal decision. Mikola Dmitrovitch, take that question off the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-25-m0.u44	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up for the speech. Who has a wish? I'd like to turn on the "Ray" system. Please. Excuse me, sign up for the speech. [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, we're not going to have a short procedure anymore, given that people, a large number, want to discuss this issue. National Deputy Sabius, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-25-m0.u45	Please give the floor to the deputy of Switzerland.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-25-m0.u46	Igor Schwaika, U.S. Union of Freedom. I would like to stress, today, those issues that are of key importance, including in the context of the "Wolves Against Ukraine" case. In fact, it's become cross-cutting for students in law schools, for political scientists, for experts. This is an example of a violation of procedural law that brings a scandal far beyond Ukraine, and the European Court of Human Rights is accusing our State of violating existing legislation with you. In fact, we need to correct it instead of the team that used to be. The way to avoid this is to carry out a thorough cleansing of authority, namely, illustrations separately by judges, by other officials. Thus, the All - Ukrainian Freedom Union insists on a version of the approval.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-25-m0.u47	Thank you. People's Deputy Rosenko, Strike, Vitaly Klitschka faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-25-m0.u48	Paul Rosenko, strike faction. I think we all need to get into the normal work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine right now. And I'm calling on the leadership of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to, indeed, if we have bills for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine for them to be prepared. The other one. According to the Ukrainian Supreme Council’s regulations, the agenda for one day or another should be published on the Web site of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the day to 16, until the 18th hour of the previous day. I ask you, to the leadership of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, we must work systematically. The principles of revolutionary desirability need to go further. We have a society waiting for us to make concrete decisions, concrete draft regulations, especially to show society where we're all going. And to do that, first of all, you have to sign.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-25-m0.u49	Thank you. People's Deputy Kaplin, Vitaly Klicka faction. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-25-m0.u50	Please pass the word to Irina Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-25-m0.u51	Please give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-25-m0.u52	Dear colleagues, I would like to point out that Valerius Carpuntsz announced today's official position on "STAPE." Our faction will not allow Parliament, because of its revolutionary relevance, to become an organ that makes thoughtless counter-regulations of decisions. We're only going to vote for what's been done, and all the committees have gone through that. And we think that this is what Midan stood for today and what society requires of us. And we ask our colleagues to hear this position, it is a principle. Likewise, Mr. Kosulinski, yesterday we demanded that something faster move with, this is a priority, to find ex-President Yanukovic. And when we're in the media today, we're reading that there's still no criminal investigation of his search, and he's not announced, in fact, in a search that hasn't been investigated by those MPs who have seen him lately, it's not right. We're officially calling on the Supreme Council again.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-25-m0.u53	Thank you. National MP Rudzkowski, please. Please turn on the microphone, please on the stand.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-25-m0.u54	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, citizens of Ukraine! It seems to me that people are now waiting for a completely different decision than the renewal of Judge Volkov's authority. He's not that there can be no moral law judge, he has to go through all the criminal investigation of his crimes in office. I suggest we take this question off as unprepared. The second question. I'm talking to you now, Mr. Koshulinsky, as the presiding officer. People went out to Midan, and all of Ukraine expects us to make decisions that will make people feel that it really is national authority. If we do not accept them to form a government, most will not vote for them again. I'm talking about the adoption of the Retirement Reform Act (3380), as well as medical reform. And I ask you to promise us that we will vote these questions today, or I will not leave the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-25-m0.u55	Thank you. Please, next. [[B in m in s a l in]] Mr. Mikolo! Please, thank you. Please turn on the microphone to the National MP Soboljevo. Please, National Deputy Sobolev, please. Passes the word to Catherinechuku. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-25-m0.u56	Dear National Deputies!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-25-m0.u57	Mr. Mikolo, wait, please. Mr. Sobolev doesn't say a word. One second. Mr. Mikolo, I'm sorry. Then you'll keep your job. You may disrespect me personally, you may disrespect me as a person, but I ask you to respect the position and opinion of all the deputies who voted for it. Thank you. Mr. Sobolev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-25-m0.u58	Sobolev, the Fatherland faction. I understand that one more day is coming -- we'll have Midan's heroes who gave orders to shoot Midan. Why don't we stop this comedy already?Oh, my God! Because now we're going to have to determine the heroes of Maidan by who worked in Yanukovich's government and who flew planes with lovers! I think it's time to stop and move on to normal work in Parliament. With regard to the questions that are being considered. First. Please tell me, if anyone has a question about a particular judge, there is a procedure for how this is determined. But everyone remembers well how the judges were removed from their positions in violation of the procedure. Or we recognize the rulings of the European Court of Human Rights, which are the current state of action, which have been charged by the government of Yanukovic, and have been confirmed by those who are acting, we are obliged to adopt a decision to restore justice, and a person who has lost his office.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-25-m0.u59	Mr. Sergey. Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-25-m0.u60	She lost her position in violation of Ukrainian law, was reinstated. If you have a question about him as a judge, you have the right to turn to him and in a legal way to deprive him of his authority. Therefore, our faction will vote in favour of the renewal of Judge Volkova. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-25-m0.u61	Thank you. Please prepare yourself for the presentation of the People’s Deputy of God’s Word. Information for Mrs. Heratchenko. The Attorney General has just called: the case of attracting, searching, and so forth, the former President is now in the Cave Court awaiting a decision by the Pecher Court. Please turn on the microphone to the National Deputy, the non-fractional Godsister.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-25-m0.u62	Please give the floor to Deputy Atroshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-25-m0.u63	Please give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-25-m0.u64	In my opinion, the honourable audience must also take the lead in adopting a series of laws that will give the world a signal of our, Ukrainian, external vector: Euro-integration laws. The other one. I would like to point out that the first steps in appointing a government from a coalition agreement were obviously right, where all people would see transparency and some principles of forming a new government. Because the first steps of the new government in the fields and in the cities, they show that it's just like taking power. No candidate speaks of their program and we form new power on the basis of revolutionary relevance. It's not very transparent. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-25-m0.u65	Thank you. Please turn on the microphone to the National Deputy of Vaschuk, non-factional.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-25-m0.u66	Dear colleagues, Your Honor Ruslan Volodymyrovich, I ask you to consider my speech as a parliamentary address. I'm speaking on behalf of all the charities of Volin County. Goods that went to the address of charities are blocked at the customs office. There are loads waiting for a few months. I've approached the relevant ministries many times, but it's all moving very slowly. They have hospitals, orphans, people who need help. And yesterday, I was again asked to be instructed by the services to speed up the unloading of goods from charities that are not smuggled or imported in violation of the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-25-m0.u67	Please turn on the microphone to National Deputy Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-25-m0.u68	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Please pass the word to Mrs. Labunski.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-25-m0.u69	Please give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-25-m0.u70	Thank you very much. I very much ask you, Mr. Vice-President of the Supreme Council, today, in general, the Supreme Council, let's focus on the list of issues that the country needs today. Look what's going on. It's the end of the month. Soon to pay your pensions, pay your wages quickly. I don't think I understand why you're pulling out a government appointment. Who's the one who's forming the agenda? Please, we must set an example for the country. We have to go back to the right field and constitutional. We must determine all the laws that we are considering in the Supreme Council, determine the priority and then vote on them, going through all the procedures. And on this point, I want to ask you a question, and someone wants to know if there is room in the Supreme Court and in general the procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-25-m0.u71	Mrs. Labunska, I'm asking you to go ahead and get in line. Thank you. Please turn on the microphone to the People's Deputy Spirini.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-25-m0.u72	Dear Chairman, a few months ago, a temporary investigation committee was formed to verify the Ministry’s health. There have been many violations. The next commission found numerous violations of the Constitution's requirements for 2012-2013, the basics of Ukraine's health legislation, Ukraine's Medical Laws, and drug laws. Why is this determination today, and these conclusions are made under dress? Why have we not heard these conclusions today? A government will be formed. And the government has to take that violation into account. And I'm asking you very much, please, in forming the government, it will take into account the conclusions of the commission of inquiry. And immediately, immediately, to hear what they were, what was the violation of this commission before we appoint a minister of health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-25-m0.u73	Thank you. People's deputy Lazko. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-25-m0.u74	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! I would like to draw your attention to the disgraceful case that may now take place. This is the release from prison of Igor Markov, who hates all the Ukrainians who destroyed Ukraine, who served the Yanukovic regime, who forged the election by stealing the victory. Today's paradox, the irony of fate is the wave of Maidan Markov-Polite prisoners and he's being released from prison. So let's also rehabilitate Volga, the bribe that $5 million took. Let's posthumously rehabilitate Hitler and Goebbels, because they might be political prisoners. I'm asking the Attorney General not to release Markov under any circumstances! It's a Ukrainian! This is the man who will come out and destroy Ukraine. He killed Maxim Chaika, he beat up people who speak Ukrainian. - Hi. - Hi.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-25-m0.u75	I would like to give the floor to the national deputy of Paul.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-25-m0.u76	Andrey Pavlovsky, "Fatherland" faction. Please give the word to the faction college, Andrew the Pishna.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-25-m0.u77	Please give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-25-m0.u78	Andrey the Pious, the Fatherland faction. Colleagues will certainly vote in favour of this decision, because it is not only for the execution of the European Court of Justice ruling, it is for the restoration of justice. This is exactly what Ukrainians expect of us today. But I would like to draw your attention to the equally important question of setting up safety nets that would not allow the next vote to be made as illegal. I have introduced, along with the People's Deputy Derevyanco, a bill to enter the system, into the operation of the Rada-3 system, a sensory button. I'm asking you to ask this question to include the agenda. To give appropriate orders, to protest and to put this Council-3 system into operation, so that the European Court of Justice does not make similar decisions, and we have complied with the requirements.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-25-m0.u79	Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-25-m0.u80	And we followed the requirements of the Ukrainian Constitution. This has been discussed, discussed. I believe that the session room should take on a commitment along with others, along with other important issues that will be considered today. The Sensor Button – "Rad 3" – Personal Voting – The Constitution – Justice.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-25-m0.u81	Thank you. Please turn on the author's microphone, Mikoli Catherinechuk. And we'll be done with that, time's up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-25-m0.u82	Dear National Deputies! Mikola Catherinechuk, European Party of Ukraine, Fatherland faction. Regrettably, there are very few meaningful statements about this decree. I want to say and remind you that Ukraine is a member state of the Council of Europe, and the Ukrainian Law on Ratification of the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, we ratified the 10th year. And the decision of the European Court of Justice is being implemented in Ukraine, is not in office, the citizen of Volkov's obligation to take any action to restore his rights. This is a nation’s obligation. The Supreme Council of Ukraine has violated his rights, and the Supreme Council has to renew these rights. I didn't know, and I don't know, and I've never seen this guy. I'm talking about what already European jurisdiction in Ukraine should be working along with Ukraine's judicial system. Therefore, the request of the national deputies to vote because we do not take his assessment. The rights were violated, and in Volkova’s case, the European Court of Justice pointed out that voting was not personal.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-25-m0.u83	Thank you, Mr. Mikolo. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like everyone to come into the session room. We will now be determined by this issue, we will proceed to the vote. Ladies and gentlemen, I am putting to the vote the draft Decree (registration number 2042) on the implementation of the European Court of Human Rights ruling in case No. 21722/11 "Alexandar Volkov v. Ukraine". Can we put it on the ground as a whole? Let's put it on the ground as a whole. Please vote. I'd like to turn on the "Ray" system. [[11:32:23]] For 207 The decision is not taken. The factions. Regional Party 23, Fatherland 62, Vitalia Klicka 20, Freedom Company 32, Companies 29, non-fractional 41. Mikola Catherinechuk, please. Please include Mikoli Catherinechuku.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-25-m0.u84	Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that this decision be redrafted if someone fails to understand the substance of this decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-25-m0.u85	There is a proposal by the author of the bill to ask questions about the work. Ladies and gentlemen, please return to the session room. We are now voting on the ruling. Rosenk, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-25-m0.u86	Paul Rosenko, strike faction. I see we're just having a big emotional rise right now in the hall. I'm asking you as chairman to ask all the Ukrainian national deputies to meet in the conference room right now. I saw in the voting picture, all the factions in the Supreme Council of Ukraine voted. So given this and the absence of MPs in the room, I suggest you go back to voting on this issue, come back and vote on this issue again after you've all called to the sitting room.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-25-m0.u87	Thank you. Out of procedure, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-25-m0.u88	Honorable colleagues, today both Schweik’s deputy and the Pious MP, have put a problem that needs to be dealt with very seriously. The point is that for several days now, there have been ballots of MPs who are not in the hall, including today. No political relevance, revolutionary, can justify what was going on here for, what, a month or a month and a half. Dear colleagues, I say, starting Wednesday, there are no deputies in the room who voted in favour of all decisions. Why are you silent? I suggest that those focal points who have been very active in coordinating journalists, all others, continue their effective work to make sure that there is a personal vote. Because the new principles of Parliament's work are new principles, not dependent on where you're sitting at the moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-25-m0.u89	Please, the People's Deputy. Please proceed with the procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-25-m0.u90	I want to talk to my colleagues who are now working in the classrooms, please, please, I don't know how else to turn to you, go back to the hall and start working. Start voting and adopting decisions, your jobs here. Friends, Ukrainians expect responsible decisions from you. This is a decision for which we must vote today on Judge Volkov, which is precisely the responsible decision for the execution of the European Court of Justice. This must be a position, a personal vote, and your personal presence in the room. I call on everyone to return to the hall, to put this question to a vote, and to make the right decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-25-m0.u91	Thank you. There is a proposal for the people’s deputies to return to the vote for the draft Decree (registration number 4243). Is there no objection? Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the return to the draft Decree (registration number 4243). I'd like to turn on the "Ray" system. Please turn on the "Race" system for your return. I'm sorry, draft Decree (registration number 2042), please. [[11:37:20]] For 223 The decision is not taken. Factions please: Region Party 13, Parentage Party, 75, Vitalia Klicka, 34, Freedom Company, 35, Company 20, non-fractional, 46. The next suggestion is to send a draft decision for further processing. Please turn on Mikoli Catherinechuku's microphone. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-25-m0.u92	Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! Nevertheless, the request to return the author for processing. I don't understand the principle of not wanting to vote for this decision, but I think we'll have time to work on it and hold the necessary consultations together. Moreover, I think that today's failure to support the decision taken by the European Court of Human Rights is very revealing.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-25-m0.u93	With the procedure, please, Nestor Schufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-25-m0.u94	Thank you. Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! Speaking today from the rostrum and yesterday, Alexander Sergiyovich Efraemov said that we would not stand outside when we see that the decisions that must be taken are not taken in connection with internal reconciliations, let's say. So I ask you to put it again before the vote returns. And I think this time the determination will pass. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-25-m0.u95	To bet, right? Dear colleagues, I ask you in the hall, are we coming back again? Ladies and gentlemen, this is it. [[B in m in s a l in]] Ladies and gentlemen, please. Okay. For work, twice, company! It goes beyond that. Dear Society, please be careful. I am betting on further work on the return of Act No. 2042. Please vote in favour of the return of the object of the initiative to Decree No. 2042. Please vote. [[11:40:03]] For 290 Decision taken. Factions please: Region Party 46, Parenthood 74, Vitalia Klicka 34, Freedom 35, Company 21, non-fractional 80. Honorable National MPs, announcements. In accordance with part three of article 60 of the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in accordance with the application, I report the withdrawal of the Party of the People's Deputy Demiskan Vladimir Fedorovic. Ladies and gentlemen, at the wishes that have already been expressed and taking into account that there is a vital issue today regarding Ukraine's accession to international legislation, particularly the Hague Tribunal, you already have in your hands a draft decree on the Supreme Council's application to the International Criminal Court on Ukraine's recognition of the jurisdiction of the International Criminal Court for crimes against humanity, which led to the particularly severe consequences and mass murder of Ukrainian citizens during peaceful protests between 21 November 2013 and 22 February 2014, registration number 4269. Dear colleagues, I ask you to include in the order of the day Project Rule 42. [[B in m in s a l in]] First we turn it on, then we turn it on. Or we don't. Mrs. Heratschenko, we're either going to turn it on now or we're not going to turn it on. Thank you. I am voting on the inclusion in the agenda of the Draft Ordinance (registration number 4269) of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's application to the International Criminal Court. Thank you. I'd like to make a statement. I'd like to turn on the "Ray" system. [[11:42:37]] For 229 Decision taken. The factions, please. Region Party 18, Parenthood, 75, Vitalia Klicka, 6, Freedom, 34, Company 22, non-fractional, 74. Dear national deputies, how we will deal with this question: no discussion or. [[B in m in s a l in]] No discussion. Or is it a short procedure? Please turn on Mrs. Heratchenko's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-25-m0.u96	Dear colleagues, once again we emphasize that a week ago, really, because Parliament violated all possible procedures, there was a massacre in the country. And now we're repeating these mistakes. The decision that is made on the agenda is vital, but it is not in the order of the day. So we suggest we announce a recess for half an hour so that the factions will consider the matter and we put it to a vote. Again, we demand that no question be raised! Stop doing that! We repeat the worst mistakes of the Council that you and I require to illustrate! So what are we doing?Oh, my God! [[Applause]] We need to hear the impact faction! And this is the position of those voters who stand under the Council. Do not force us to simply look at things that cannot be done. Break, we make decisions with factions, and then we vote. Please, it has not been considered, it has not been regulated under the Rules. We will not violate the Rules. This is our position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-25-m0.u97	Thank you. All right, ladies and gentlemen, then we are. May I have your attention, please? Let's take a ten-minute break so we can give you all this material, and then we'll be coming, we'll take a ten-minute break, they'll give you this material right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-25-m0.u98	We're taking a break, I can see there's no people in the room. I'm gonna take a break, right? Then the break is announced until 12:30. Thank you, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-25-m0.u99	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that we are currently considering the draft Order (registration number 4269) on the application of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the International Criminal Court. Let's define by procedure how we're going to look at it, either in full or in short. Ladies and gentlemen, a small number of national deputies have yet to arrive at the session hall. I'd like you to invite the national deputies to the session room right now, please. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to determine the form of how we're going to discuss this issue: by summary procedure, without discussion, or by full procedure. By full procedure? It's short. Let's then, there are different thoughts, there are different suggestions. You don't vote, dear friends, well, it won't work. Then I make a proposal for a reduced procedure. People's deputies, please. I'd like to turn on the "Ray" system. [[12:35:16]] For the 120th. The decision is not taken. I would like to ask the author of the draft decision, co-author, if you'll excuse me, Sergey Volodymyrovich Sasa. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-25-m0.u100	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! Your attention is drawn to the draft application of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the International Criminal Court for the recognition by Ukraine of the jurisdiction of the International Criminal Court for the commission of crimes against humanity by senior officials of the State, which led to the particularly severe consequences and mass killing of Ukrainian citizens during peaceful protests between 21 November 2013 and 22 February 2014. On behalf of the Ukrainian people, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, as the sole body of the Ukrainian legislature, recognizes jurisdiction, refers to the International Criminal Court for the purpose of bringing criminal responsibility before the International Criminal Court of senior officials of Ukraine regarding the envisaged article 7 of the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court of Crimes against Humanity in the course of peaceful acts, the protests of citizens who took place in Ukraine from 30 October 2013 to 22 February 2014, namely: Janukovič Viktor Fedorović, President of Ukraine, and other officials designated by the Prosecutor of the International Criminal Court. For three months in Ukraine, law enforcement agencies, at the command of senior officials, have misused physical influence, special means, and weapons to participants in peaceful action in Kiev and other cities in Ukraine. Systematic overcoming their authority and authority, as well as other serious and particularly serious crimes that have led to the killing of more than 100 citizens of Ukraine and other states, the injury and mutilation of more than 2,000 people, more than 500 of whom are in serious condition. Application to peaceful torturers, namely, illegal detention and keeping naked at below 15 degrees Fahrenheit [15 ° C], the use of water meters against participants in peaceful protests at temperatures below 10 degrees Fahrenheit [10 ° C], bodily damage to various degrees of gravity, and so forth. A characteristic sign during this period was the kidnapping and disappearance of people, the violent and illegal deprivation of their will, the forced displacement of people to deserted places for the purpose of torture and murder, the baseless imprisonment of a large number of people in various cities in Ukraine, their brutal beatings, the unlawful destruction of the property of shareholders, housing, cars, and so on. The use of power in places and by militias of organized criminal groups to intimidate and kidnap people, torture, murder, destruction of their property, and so forth has become unprecedented. Generally, persecution was motivated by political motives: opposition party activists, public organizations, Euromaidan, Automeidano, and others. The above usually resulted in severe suffering, serious mental and physical harm to participants in peaceful protests and citizens throughout the country. Given that the illegal acts of the above-mentioned officials contain signs of serious and particularly serious crimes against humanity that fall under the jurisdiction of the International Criminal Court, the Supreme Council of Ukraine states that: first, according to article 11, paragraph 2, and article 12, paragraphs 2 and 3, of the Rome Statute, the jurisdiction of the International Criminal Court in respect of crimes against humanity by senior officials of the State, which resulted in the particularly severe consequences and mass murder of Ukrainian citizens during peaceful acts of protest, which took place in Ukraine from 21 November 2013 to 22 February 2014; second, the International Criminal Tribunal for the Establishment of the Crimes of Other Criminalities against Humanity, provided for in article 7 of the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court, and the involvement of the International Criminal Tribunal for the Prosecution of the President of the Republic, the President of the Republic of Ecuador, the President of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Iraq and the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Korea. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-25-m0.u101	Thank you. Please sign up for the question. National MP Rosenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-25-m0.u102	Please pass the word to Irina Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-25-m0.u103	Please give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-25-m0.u104	Dear colleague! Tell me, please, today we were to consider a similar draft decision under the authority of our colleague, another colleague, and there was a list of persons involved in crimes, possibly related to crimes. Your statement does not contain this list. Why? We still think it's necessary to bring those people there: the leaders of the power structures, the leaders of the Ukrainian government, the authors who are appropriate as far as possible for the introduction of the state of emergency, who were obviously involved in these bloody events in Ukraine. Why aren't they in your statement? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-25-m0.u105	Thank you for asking. As for the bill that was passed out, I wouldn't want to criticize him from the rostrum right now. There are a number of legal aspects that cannot allow the bill to be considered. As for the specific question of including an entire list of individuals, the situation here looks like this. We went first in the way you say, and when this list turned out to be extremely large, we gave up this idea. Why? Because of the practice of the International Criminal Court, they also have limited rights to bring a certain number of persons to justice. That's the first one. And so I think it's a legalized version where, in the case of the adoption of this decision, Ukraine commits itself, in accordance with article 9, to provide all-inclusive assistance in the investigation of matters, to be determined by a prosecutor, an independent person.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-25-m0.u106	Let's finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-25-m0.u107	Which I think we trust is the prosecutor of the International Criminal Court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-25-m0.u108	National Deputy Odarchenko. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-25-m0.u109	I pass on the word to Mikola Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-25-m0.u110	Please give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-25-m0.u111	Dear Mr. Reporter! I support this document that you report, it's important politically and in a human sense. We need to set a precedent in Ukraine for the responsibility of the highest official and group of people, because it is obviously about the joint action of the people. But it seemed to me that maybe later in the papers, as we prepare it, we need to identify unprecedented pressures and obstacles to the activities of journalists who had little space. Today, according to our Freedom Committee, words have suffered physical harm to 166 journalists and two journalists have died. So this is a fantastic situation in terms of inhumanity, cruelty. So I think that's an argument that would further point to a fact.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-25-m0.u112	Thank you, please, please answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-25-m0.u113	Thank you. Dear Mikolo Volodymyrovich, when we wrote the content of this statement, we drew attention to the definition of the seventh article of the statute of the International Criminal Court. Regrettably, there are no qualified individuals. Hence, these individuals, journalists, and others who have suffered, are listed in the total number that has been named. This is more than a hundred citizens who have died and more than 2,000 who have been injured and disabled.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-25-m0.u114	Thank you. National MP, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-25-m0.u115	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear Mr. Sas! I support the Supreme Council's draft decision to appeal to the International Court of Justice in order to bring to justice those who killed the people of our own Ukrainians who gave the teams. But I suggest in the second paragraph that we refer only to Yanukovich, the list of persons responsible for the killings of people: Yanukovich, Azarov, Arbuzov, Zaharchenko, Shulak, the commander of the internal forces, Kljev, Lukash, Asavaluk, Colonel Asavaluk, who managed the snipers, Portnov and others, should be given a name for all of them to be committed to the International Tribunal. And let them answer and not hide. It is vital that criminals whose blood is on their hands do not escape responsibility. And Pschenka, definitely Pshonka.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-25-m0.u116	Please answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-25-m0.u117	Thank you. Dear Oleg Valeriyovich, I have already expressed my opinion on this matter. I am in favour of attracting all criminals who are involved in crimes committed against Ukrainian citizens. For the reasons I have called, we have restricted ourselves to Yanukovich, the superiors, and those who gave and carried out criminal orders. If we're going to take the path you're proposing, well, in principle, that's the right of the Supreme Council. But now each of the deputies will be called in the city of Kiev, in the areas he represents, in his opinion, the people involved in the commission of crimes will be extremely large. And I have my doubts that, based on the practice of application, from the practice of the European Criminal Court, that a court can take such a case into consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-25-m0.u118	Ladies and gentlemen, the time for questioning is exhausted. Do we have a co-reporter? Do we have an accomplice now? Dear company, I'm sorry. We don't have a co-conspirator. Then I'll ask you now. I understand. Then I ask you to sign up for the factions for a question, please. Sergei! National Deputy Sas, there will be a faction question. Please. The All-Ukrainian Union of Freedom, the People's MP of Peace. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-25-m0.u119	I see. Alexander Mirny, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Clearly, the question that we are now considering is already out of date. And even in spite of all the tragic events that have taken place, we had to ratify and appeal to the Hague Tribunal a few years ago to join this international community. Sadly, though, the previous authorities were likely afraid of the consequences she had foreshadowed by blocking the right decision. So the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union calls for all factions, I emphasize, all of them, without exception, to take the right, balanced step and to support the decisions that are necessary to the Ukrainian people right now, because without that we will not go forward. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-25-m0.u120	Please, National Deputy Teryohin, faction of the All-Ukrainian Union of Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-25-m0.u121	Dear Lord, the presiding fellows of honor! Mr. Chairman, according to the Rules, there should be statements from factions, not a question, not a minute, but three minutes in full. So I'd like to give you more than one minute. Well, first of all, I'll remind you that unfortunately, we didn't ratify the statute of the Criminal Court, because there's been an appropriate decision of the Constitutional Court since 2000, which was passed by the former President, you remember, after the scandal with Gongadze. Unfortunately, we have to go in this, you know, indirect way, accepting a statement that, in principle, is enough in accordance with the Statute of the Criminal Court to start criminal conduct. But it is very important that the decisions of this Criminal Court are then implemented in Ukraine. That is why, yesterday, we registered with the National Deputy Petrenko the amendments and additions to the Judicial Act and the amendments to the Criminal Code, the Criminal Procedure Code, which establishes the duty of Ukraine's judicial system to implement the judgements of both the European Court of Human Rights and the Hague Tribunal or other international courts, which are used in accordance with Ukraine's international treaties in the internal judiciary. Plus, we propose to establish a strict criminal responsibility of officials, as well as judges and colleagues of judges who refuse or refuse to implement such decisions. If we had passed that law, then there would not have been such a disgrace in the last vote when the Council actually refused to comply with the European Court of Human Rights. So I would very much like, Mr. Chairman, to consider this bill, which I have mentioned, immediately after all the personnel assignments that are to take place this week. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-25-m0.u122	Thank you. Please turn on the microphone to the People's Deputy Ionovy, the Vitalia Klicka faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-25-m0.u123	Please pass the word to Rosenku.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-25-m0.u124	Please turn on the microphone of the people's deputy Rosenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-25-m0.u125	Paul Rosenco, Vitaly Caller's Faction. Of course, our faction unanimously supports that statement. Obviously, the situation in the country is very difficult right now, and there's a lot of warnings about it, as if someone's out there right now chasing someone, and they're chasing someone, that the new authority is kind of persecuting their previous authority. But we need to be clear that the crimes that have taken place in the last three months must indeed be held accountable. Because this is no longer about whose rights are violated. This is about hundreds of lives that, unfortunately, no one will ever be able to return. Ukraine has not been worried about such a thing. Indeed, yesterday in the media, I would like all the national MPs to discover this information, find that, yesterday, specific facts and specific documents of the possible force launch of Maidan were published. These documents, prepared by senior officials of the State, were prepared by maniacs who tried to bring 20,000 military personnel into Kiev to physically destroy Midan. Because along the Maidan perimeter they had been located because of a grate squad to keep no man out of Maidan. At the site of the Arsenal plant, it was supposed to be a filtered area where all the arrested from Midan were released and kept under guard there. That's what it took to figure out in order for a massive protest to actually choke the troops and predict such annihilation of the civilian population. So our statements today, our actions today are primarily a warning to the next authorities in Ukraine. A warning to those who would even think to have a strong way of suppressing or suppressing mass protests. Our position is next. Every citizen, every public organization, every political party has the right to protest peacefully, has the right to express their warnings and observations of authority. And let us not allow in any way in a violent way to stop and suppress this protest. That is why we support this initiative, which will be a safeguard for the future generation.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-25-m0.u126	Please turn on the microphone of the people's representative of Momoto, the faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-25-m0.u127	Alexander Momot, 27th constituency, Dnipropetrovsk. Dear Ruslan Volodymyrovich, give the floor to the People's Deputy Dudenkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-25-m0.u128	Please turn on the microphone of the national MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-25-m0.u129	Thank you, Mr. Head. I am now addressing all my colleagues so that we can actually make balanced decisions, as the representatives of "Freedom" have advised us. I represent the faction of the Party of the Regions and I say that we are ready and we support the need to distribute the jurisdiction of the International Criminal Court in Ukraine. But that jurisdiction must take place in the way established by the Constitution and the proper legislation of Ukraine. We are against, absolutely against, forcing or forcing the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to provide material about certain individuals for a certain period of time. Because the given decision and the specified draft declaration are unconstitutional. We cannot accept an international treaty that is not ratified by the Supreme Council. What's our offer? We're in the plenary room right now. I believe that representatives of all factions and MPs present support the idea of ratifying the relevant Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court. After the ratification there is that. Once the ratification procedure has been completed, there is a procedure for submitting the specified documents. And accordingly the convention will be spread not only to events that have taken place, tragic events for the history of our country that took place at the end of February, but also to all events. So we are definitely against the draft statement proposed by the faction representatives of the draft decree on the temporary recognition of the Rome Statute. We believe that the Supreme Council, as the legislative body, the only legislative body, still adhered to the Constitution and the requirements of the law. Please support our proposal to ratify the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court and to act within the framework of the Constitution and the current legislation of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-25-m0.u130	Ladies and gentlemen, time for the speech is up. People's deputies please sign up for the speech. National MP, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-25-m0.u131	Please give the floor to the national deputy of Razwadowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-25-m0.u132	Please turn on the microphone. Please turn on the microphone of the People's Deputy of God.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-25-m0.u133	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I very much ask you to pay attention to this document and how it went. The first draft of the decree had names such as Clivev, Portnov, Pschenka, Lukash, Shulak, Zacharychenko, Yakimenko, Dobkin, Kernes. Now there's only one name in this Order: Yankovich. I don't think we have the right to vote that way. And we have to add all the names of those people who had a direct relation to the listing in this project. Why? Because from the moment the Council calls for these people to be held accountable, these people have the same attitude wherever they are. They've all fled Ukraine, but they're all now negotiating a return to Ukraine. And on their way back here, they're going to be operating in Ukraine again in their black schemes. I insist that all deputies who have a conscience, honor and principle have the right to vote in favour of this decree only if the names I have named are positive to it. I ask you to be principled and consistent. We cannot today, as was the case in 2004 and 2005, leave beyond the punishment of those who are guilty. And yet, for the first time in the history of Ukraine, there was the shooting of peaceful people! I want to say it again. We can now make this list non-exclusive, leave it in the formulation of the ruling: Yanukovich, Klavov, Portnov, Psongka, Zacharychenko, Šuljak, Dobkin, Kernes, Lukas and others, as it is now in the text of the decree and vote in that form. Please consider this a supplement and please put to the vote in such a way as to raise the question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-25-m0.u134	National Deputy Razwadowski. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-25-m0.u135	Please give the floor to the People’s Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-25-m0.u136	Please turn on the microphone of the People’s Deputy Devyanka.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-25-m0.u137	Honorable National Deputies, Honourable Ukrainian People! You know, we've had terrible events on the Maidan, and today all of you, all of us national deputies, are looking at the Celestial 100 who were killed by criminals. And the Celestial 100 is looking at all of us right now, looking at everyone in their souls right now, because someone's given the team a crime to kill them because someone's organized this bloody crime. Because right now it is up to each of us to see whether those people will be held accountable. Most of all, we are not judges right now, we are not judges, we are not judges, we are not judges, we are not judges. But each one of us now, it depends on him whether an independent International Criminal Court will deal objectively with each of those people who have just been reported, and it is important that this is an independent International Criminal Court. So I would like to support you, in fact, the name of all those people who have been bugged, namely: Azarov, Arbuzov, Pshonka, Zacharychenko, Lebedev, Lukash, Portnov, Yakimenko, Šulak, Dobkin, Kernes. For that (Lukash, I repeat), for that, as well as for others who will be identified by an independent prosecutor of the International Criminal Court, in order for the International Criminal Court to be objective, without pressure, to consider and determine who and what extent of responsibility must be borne. Dear people's deputies, all of Midan, all of Ukraine is looking at us today and waiting for a just decision. I want all of us to understand that this vote is nominal. And every person who lives in Ukraine will see how you, we, each of us personally, view crimes against humanity as we make decisions now that people are expecting changes, systemic changes in the country. This is vital for each of us, for the life of every Ukrainian family and child. So I would like to support you, actually, with these amendments. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-25-m0.u138	National Deputy Bondarenko, Fatherland faction. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-25-m0.u139	Vladimir Bondarenko, Fatherland faction. Dear friends! Today, according to the hot ones, we have a whole group of people who have absolutely no reason to do what they did, who have violated the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, international law, who have faked people, abused them and actually killed them, if not personally, by their orders or by their actions, or by their inactivity. But we must leave the possibility to continue to investigate this vast system of human destruction, this genocide that was launched by Yanukovich in Ukraine. Now I'm curious, and who gave such a Master Kozak the right to stop the railways from going west so that the people in Kiev would not go to help those who were on strike? Who stopped the Kyiv Metropolitan? And who from the Ministry of Health instructed the police to allow the seriously ill, injured, and to take them to other places, including the woods? How did the penitentiary system work? How did the courts in Ukraine beat those who had nothing to do with the violation of rights, with packs of them penetrating them for at least two months, and some planned to be taken away forever? So today we need to adopt this document and only as the first batch of criminals to be added to the consideration, but then we need to continue the investigation. And so that the international criminal prosecutor will deal with this problem. Because our judiciary, our system of investigation over the years, has been so corrupt that in one day it is very difficult to move it out of place and to direct it to the standards of law that are in Europe. So those commissions that work in Ukraine today, they only have to give the original material to secure this material, because it's rapidly disappearing, they say, "the evidence base." So it's going to have to go on, and today it's going to have to be absolutely clear that this document is being presented in an extended version. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-25-m0.u140	Thank you. National MP Lazko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-25-m0.u141	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine, honourable citizens! You can imagine the situation in May 1945, in Berlin, in Berlin, in the presence of Gebbles, Mueller, Himmler, Haydrich, Cathel, and say: Marshal Zhukov, we condemn Hitler, all the blood on his hands, we're not to blame, let's build a new Germany together. Can you imagine such a situation? No, it's not. All of them sat on the bench of defendants (usually those who remained alive) and sat on the bench of the defendants of the Nuremberg Tribunal. For the first time in the history of Ukraine, people have been killed in the struggle for power. Janukovic, for the sake of this instigation, the bloodthirsty, in order to hold on to the presidency, began to give criminal orders to kill people. These criminal orders began to be carried out by the same bastard who was sitting there, buying jobs for bribes, carrying millions of dollars each month for these jobs, and for money, they began killing Ukrainians for jobs. Weren't we talking to them? That half of the National Deputies Hall came out of the rostrum every day and turned to the military, to the soldiers, to the militia, not to carry out criminal orders. They didn't hear us, they killed us because they got $500 each day, squad commanders, and $300 snipers who killed us. This is the price Janukovich valued for our lives with Zacharychenk. Therefore, there is no forgiveness for murderers. And I don't see the subject at all. The entire list of criminals must be transferred to the International Tribunal. All of it. No murderer, one who gives orders, one who obeys orders, has the right to escape responsibility. We do not have an independent judicial system in Ukraine today. By the way, the judges who planted our activist people have to be added to that list. So that there is no one in the world who thinks that we are creating a political dispute, we must refer the matter to the International Tribunal, the independent International Tribunal, which is to deal with the matter. That's why I'm talking to you, my dear fellows, without discussion: Yanukovich, Zakharchenko, Arbuzov, Kluv, Azarov, Pshonka, Lukas, and so on. Let's turn it on and pass it on to the court. And let the independent court handle their case. The souls of hundreds of people killed look at us. Now it's up to you, regionals, Communists, as you vote. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-25-m0.u142	The word is given to Vyacheslav Kirilenko, a faction of the Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-25-m0.u143	Viacheslav Kirilenko, Party For Ukraine, faction of Fatherland. Dear voters, dear colleagues! Of course, we will get to the time when former dictator Slobodan Milosevic, like the generals who used to go to ethnic cleansing, like all African dictators, stood up before the Hague Court and gave a witness and were punished. Janukovic will be arrested, and he must answer both to the Ukrainian people and to the world’s association for crimes against humanity. Because killed people who fought for their freedom, for their country, for the future of their children. And they were killed by the power that put everything on the line to save themselves, to save themselves, their billions, and to continue to produce the filth that they had produced in the country. At the same time, the temptation is to write down dozens of names in this statement. But the first person responsible for these killings is former President Janukovic. Personally, I believe that a separate point should be added to Zacharychenko and Pshonka directly to this statement. On all other names, we can be set up by a paragraph that says "and other officials appointed by the Prosecutor of the International Criminal Court." Because we need to understand that there is a Ukrainian nation that must itself be held accountable by all those who have given criminal orders and have participated in their execution. And that's a huge number of special forces commanders. These, including the judges who printed decisions to execute these criminal orders, are even the people who were stifled by freedom of speech and forced to write journalists, that death on the streets is good, it's a struggle to put order in Ukraine and so on. These are hundreds of positions throughout Ukraine from different areas of life, but this is the responsibility of Ukrainian courts, Ukrainian justice, and the Ukrainian people. And third, last. We have to make sure that this never happens again. So the first illustration should be in law enforcement. The Berkut division must be disbanded without any premeditation and a new special unit will be created that will never carry out orders against its people but will fight crime. All law enforcement officers must undergo reassertation, and those guilty of crimes must be released. All of this is true of other forces that have participated in large numbers in the execution of criminal orders, but in large numbers have refused to carry out criminal orders. There's a line to this. Those guilty must answer. Those who, on the contrary, fought for the honor of the army.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-25-m0.u144	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-25-m0.u145	Those who fought for the honor of the law-enforcement system should, on the contrary, also be referred to as the model of civil position. And we need to put our hands on our hearts and say that we do, and criminals, starting with Yanukovich, have to be arrested and punished. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-25-m0.u146	Thank you. Please, from the rostrum, the last one.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-25-m0.u147	Let me put it very briefly. In our speeches, we didn't have the name of another person who's actually been preparing and directing this process of genocide globally over Maidan. This is ex-Prime Minister of Ukraine, Mikola Azarov. And we must make sure that he is brought to criminal responsibility and that he sits behind bars! And some people here are smiling, and I wanted to ask you, where is the leader of your faction who's bending the whole faction to vote for decisions that allowed Azarov to direct these processes? Let him go and answer the same!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-25-m0.u148	Ladies and gentlemen, there have been such emotional speeches, because it hurts everyone in the heart. I beg you, Sergey Volodymyrovich, closing word, one minute for us to receive.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-25-m0.u149	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-25-m0.u150	Sergey Volodymyrovich, may I make an offer? Friends, colleagues, I'm asking for your attention! Dear colleagues, there's a proposition here called many surnames. Sergei Volodymyrovich, go to the microphone to comment on this proposal immediately. They called a lot of names. But I agree with Vejacheslav Kirilenka's statement and his suggestion that the direct responsibility for this bloody crime be borne by President Yanukovic, Minister of Interior, Ex-Minister of the Interior of Zacharyenko and ex-Procurator of the General Pshonka. Hold on, guys. I'm asking you to calm down. Wait. And other officials and to write "which will be established and provided by the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine." [[B in m in s a l in]] Wait! I'll explain why. Because during the investigation, all new and new names that are directly involved in this act, the act of blood and crime will be clarified. Yes, dear colleagues, we'll make a decision. Now, I'm convinced that we're going to vote the constitutional number of votes, and we're not going to waste any time trying to make this decision come true. Is the offer supported? Supported. Please, Sergey Volodymyrovich, please, come on, now. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, just a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-25-m0.u151	Dear colleagues, I'm here to punish the criminals. Some MPs are already here saying that since there is no list, Sass has already taken the money to keep the list off. Therefore, honourable deputies! Study the material portion, the criminal statute, and then you'll realize that we can't determine the culprits now. We, each of us, when guidance is revealed on this issue, can make suggestions to those who are called to account. This is the first thesis. Next thesis. Why do we solve this issue in such a way? Because we have committed crimes against those investigating them, and we cannot do so. In our criminal legislation there are crimes that determine, that is, these crimes, but there is a subject, and the subjective side is different. And also, there was this thesis that we don't have the Statute ratified. There are examples: Côte d’Ivoire, Palestine, where.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-25-m0.u152	Two words, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-25-m0.u153	Part three of article 13 dealt with matters as a minimum, I know, in two countries. Therefore, honourable colleagues, I ask you to support this bill as proposed. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-25-m0.u154	Please, I'm asking for some editorial rights, Sergey Volodymyrovich, our colleague will do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-25-m0.u155	Roman Cherneg, Faction Hit. Dear colleagues, indeed, all the names that were called here must be introduced. I've got a few words. The second paragraph begins: "For three months in Ukraine, the law enforcement authorities are ordered to do so."but not simple orders, and this order, as we all say, is criminal, so request to write down immediately that it is a criminal order. Next. We can't just write and write down the fourth sentence, the fourth line below: "The characteristic sign of this period is the kidnapping and disappearance of people." But it's not a characteristic sign -- it's a systemic breach and a systematic kidnapping. So the request to write out immediately is, "At this time, it's become a systematic kidnapping."'--keep going along the lines. You have to add to the sentence that in parentheses is "demeanor of honour and dignity" before the word "something." And on the second page, delete the words, "As a rule," where they go in sentences. "As a rule, people were being persecuted for political reasons." But not usually, and this was purely for political reasons because of the persecution of people. And in the next sentence, this term also excludes "as a rule." You have to write these orders in plain terms.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-25-m0.u156	Thank you. I think, my friends, we have to count. Colleagues, let me recapture the proposals that have been made. That's right. That you and I are clearly talking about the criminal responsibility of Janukovitch Viktor Fedorovich, the ex-President of Ukraine, the ex-Minister of Internal Affairs of Zaharchenk, the ex-General Prosecutor of Pšonka and other officials who issued orders that would be issued by the Attorney General's Office and submitted to this application. Dear colleagues, I would like to say once again, from a voice we can write another 5-10 names, they will be entered by the Attorney General's Office, which is conducting the investigation with the B.B.I., calmly, and the Ministry of Internal Affairs. At the same time, all the names, my friends, we won't write, Inno German, we won't write all the names. We can't give a complete list right now. And now everyone's going to get up and say, sorry, it's going to be, well, let's say, according to the law wrongly, legally incorrect. That's why it's an offer. We have a joint investigation team: Henprocuratorium, BSI, IMF. The crime of mass murder is now being actively investigated. And the Attorney General's Office will give all the names that will be installed in the course of the investigation, and that will be an addition to our call to you. Is that the form you're taking? Roger that. I'll bet on it. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, I ask you to calm down. I was approached and asked to be announced, calm down about the ratification of the Treaty of Rome, which is an important issue. Guys, we really have a bill like this. He brought in the people's deputy Moskal. He is now being processed and he will be made and will be the Supreme Council to make a decision on this issue. Can we put it to a vote? We can. Colleagues, determination, on the basis and in general, can we put it? On the basis of the rights that have been named? We can. Based on the base. Okay. Honorary Fellows, Decree 4269 – Statement by the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the International Criminal Court on the recognition by Ukraine of the jurisdiction of the International Criminal Court of crimes against humanity by senior officials of the State, which resulted in particularly severe consequences and mass killings of Ukrainian citizens during peaceful protests between 21 November 2013 and 22 February 2014. Please vote this Order on the basis. Turn on the "Race" system, we're voting. [[13:21:48]] For 339 Decision taken. Please show me through the factions, please. Dear colleagues, can we put it all together? We can't. Okay. Please raise your hands. Yes, I see everyone. Here we go. God’s Word, please, the People’s Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-25-m0.u157	Thank you. Dear colleagues, those who are now shouting that they are going to pyrate, I offer them, after they have not voted these names all, to come out and scold people. We now know that the bidding has begun again. We know that those who are now sitting abroad are calling dozens of people every day and trading on what conditions they're returning to. That won't happen. And I ask today to ask the question of the responsibility of all those who have released them from the country. So please do not include the auction. And I demand that a coalition agreement be signed today. So that we can see all those who are selling positions and seats in the coalition agreement again. Those who do not now vote on these amendments are those who betray the Ukrainian people!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-25-m0.u158	Please turn on the microphone of the People’s Deputy Agaphon.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-25-m0.u159	Dear colleagues, once again, I would like to draw attention to the amendment that has been made to the vote: To appoint individuals and also those who are to be set up by the Attorney General’s Office. Not the Attorney General's office. We're addressing, that's why we're addressing the International Criminal Court, we're demanding another criminal jurisdiction. Not the Attorney General's office will appoint the perpetrators. These persons will be appointed by a special prosecutor of the International Criminal Court. So I'm asking you to leave it in the form that the drafter proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-25-m0.u160	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Lazko. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-25-m0.u161	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear fellow MPs, I propose to include in this list the names of all the leaders who are involved in the crimes committed against Ukrainian citizens who are guilty of mass murder. This is Azarov and Arbuzov, Schulak, commander of the Internal Forces, Colonel of the Special Unit of Internal Snipers Asavalluk Sergey, Yakimenko, Head of the S.B.U. (because the special unit "Alpha" Snipers were also killed by Snipers). Azarov is required, Arbusov, Lukash, Kluev, Mohilov, Constantinov, Dobkin, Kernes. Dokkin and Mohilov were sent to Kiev! Tits killed journalists, aunts killed people! So I ask you to include these names in the list of persons, and let the International Tribunal investigate their activities! Because once again, we have a problem – there is no independent court in Ukraine today. So let the international work.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-25-m0.u162	Please turn on the microphone of the national MP Soboljev.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-25-m0.u163	Sobolev, the Fatherland faction. I might surprise you right now: I didn't vote on the basis for one reason. If this goes through in this way, it won't work. I demand that it be voted out as defined by the international legal profession, what Agaphonov said. We have no right to transfer matters that are not factual. Only the Special Prosecutor has the right to establish this. I demand that this be voted in the first edition, then it will work, or this law will not work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-25-m0.u164	Please turn on the microphone of the people’s deputy Ariev. Friends, and we'll make decisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-25-m0.u165	Dear colleagues, we can't define the list right now. Please tell me, why do we only define management positions, management positions, for our own reasons? And the berkut commanders who gave the orders? And the list of the special forces of Omega, Sokol, that were called among the criminals? The lists that were in Boumerang and Wave? All these people need to be installed, and they are established by a prosecutor appointed by the International Criminal Court. And it's this person that we can't do work for this person right now. So let's stick to international legislation and not turn it into a self-piar now when we have to make the main decision, and then the lists will be defined in The Hague. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-25-m0.u166	Please, the national deputy of Jeremiah, and we will vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-25-m0.u167	The honourable national deputies, the honourable chairman, are perfectly right, are the norms of international law and what the national deputy of Agaphonov says must be voted on. Please put it to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-25-m0.u168	Dear colleagues, all the last speakers have clearly supported the proposal made by the Ukrainian national deputy Agaphonova. Because this is correct, and the final list will be established by the Special Prosecutor of the Tribunal. So I take it that's the offer? The only suggestion was, but apart from Yanukovich, the name Zacharynko and Pshonka is indicated. Is that what I'm saying? With this offer. Please, colleague, you're going to vote now.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-25-m0.u169	Dear colleagues, on behalf of the faction of the Party of the Regions, I propose to support this application, but at the same time to ratify the bill 0072 proposed by Moscalenkom. What will this lead to? This will lead us to have a permanent and criminal conduct, not only in the event that took place in February but also on a permanent basis. This is, I think, a compromise option, and we're ready to support it by the faction of the Party of Regions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-25-m0.u170	Dear colleagues, I think that the proposal for it to work all the time is good, and we will definitely vote on the ratification. But now we need to make a decision on this decision, according to the content of the statement. And once again, we agreed to take into account the three names I called and the corrections, the clear position that was defined. My friends, it was clearly determined by Deputy Agafone, that this is legally correct and that is the form in which the statement will be accepted, I ask to vote in general. I'd like to turn on the "Ray" system. [[13:29:23]] For 324 Decision taken. [[Applause]] The factions, please. Dear colleagues, may I ask you, can we move on to the election date? We can. You and I have a lot of drafts. Dear colleagues, after the election in Kiev There is a proposal to include drafts in the agenda of our session, we can vote. Please, registration number 4198 and all. What are some of the comments? Please turn on the MP's microphone, Pinzenik.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-25-m0.u171	Dear Alexander Valentinovich, distinguished colleagues! Once again, we are faced with a problem that many of us have talked about. The decision is not discussed, it is not worked out, and we will try to make such decisions quickly. Nothing will happen if we put off one day to consider these issues. There are probably more important issues that we can discuss.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-25-m0.u172	Dear colleagues! I don't think it's right to speak, but I think this question has been discussed so many times in the Supreme Council, and this is a question on which all the Chinese who have been deprived of their right to choose both their heads and their deputies of counsel insist. So, dear colleagues, it seems to me that it would be inappropriate for us to take that question down again. There's a proposition, it doesn't include, by the way, the order of the day. This is the appointment of a non-committal election. I'd like that. We have a lot of determination here, my dear fellows. I'd like to ask that we choose a decision that says about the extracurricular. Help me, Mr. Ruslan. It's about the next election in Kiev. Because it's up to us that the next election will be scheduled for May 25th across the country. Please make a decision about it. Dear colleagues, who want to break the election in Kiev, let's talk two or three tours. We're gonna break the election. There is a law by which today we can clearly declare elections in Kiev. And now I'm asking you not to ask that question. Because we're just uncomfortable looking at people who don't have power. Gerega's already retired, she's on the run. There can be no legitimate legitimate authority in the capital city of Ukraine. Period. That's why. Dear colleagues, 4198-3, Brigin Alexander's decision to appoint alternate members of the Kyiv City Council. That's no good, it's the district council. Please, I'm addressing the authors, who has solely a decision on the election of the head and the Kiyevrad? Please, I give the floor to the national MP Rudzkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-25-m0.u173	Honorable People’s Deputies! Honorable People’s Deputies! [[B in m in s a l in]] 4198-1, on the appointment of alternate members of the Kyiv City Council and the Kiev City Head. It is proposed that Decree 4198-1 appoint city heads and city council deputies. This discussion has been going on for about a year. I think the civic position of all the people of Kiev deserves the attention of the Supreme Council. And today we must vote on this decision – and at the same time with the President's election to hold such elections. It'll save money first. On the other hand, it will give all the people who have shown themselves during the dignity revolution to realize themselves in the city council and to demonstrate the new quality of the organization of the city council, as well as the communication between the city council and its voters. I am convinced that if the people of Kiev have been able to ensure the viability of the city centre – Khreshtika and European Square – during this time, I am convinced that they will be able to organize the work and life of the city of Kiev in a new way. The very example of self - organization, this example of self - organization, needs to be translated into a new form of governance for Kiev. I am also convinced that we need to make a change to the City Head Act, as well as to place the city’s head and head of the Kiev City Administration. Such a bill has already been drafted, and I think that after the election of the city head and the election to the city council, we need to make appropriate changes to the law. Also, honourable national deputies, we need to make a decision to renew the election to the district councils. And the decision must be made in an orderly manner in the Supreme Council, for such a decision must be made by the City Council in order to hold elections to both the City Council and the District Councils at the same time. This will provide, well, a wider representation. And I'm convinced that he's going to involve more vulnerable people in the administration.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-25-m0.u174	Dear colleagues, I'll give you my word. We've had an operational committee meeting here, and the profile committee advises us to now adopt a decision 4198-6 that fully discusses the issue of elections, including their financing, organization and so on. I ask Volodymira to speak to Jaborowski and at the end of the committee head David Zhuaniah.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-25-m0.u175	There comes a time when we can solve another problem that is long overdue and a very difficult and offensive problem for the capital city of Kiev. First of all, I'm a little bit surprised, don't let Pinzenik get mad at me, we're very familiar and share a lot of his position, but today we have to talk about a long and boring discussion of the election in Kiev today, so it seems like we've discussed this a lot, but we've put it here dozens of times, and the party of regions has been falling down, falling, falling down, rolling down this bill. This topic was discussed at all the venues, at all the meetings in Kiev, and people demanded that the elections be held. The capital of Ukraine was left without self - rule. Yes, Popov was still the head of the district administrations -- that's all. No district councils, nothing. The City Council has long since exhausted its mandate. Kiyev has no authority at all. The only legitimate deputies were us, the 12 deputies elected in Ukraine. Because of this, my bill provides for everything. We cannot bring this bill into question about district councils. It will, it will have to be solved, but it's a matter of a different level than this. And today we need to vote unanimously, once again, to solve the painful problem of bringing Kiev back to the bosom of democratic cities, democratic cities with self-government. I thank you and I believe you will vote for it. He who does not vote will take a great sin upon himself.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-25-m0.u176	Please, David Vazievich. The chairman of the committee will now express his position and make a statement.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-25-m0.u177	The distinguished presiding, respected colleagues, of the Yavorovsky decree clearly determines that the city’s head and Kyivrada are being elected. As far as the district councils are concerned, the district councils are already being set up by Kyivrad, so we need to select Kyiv’s head, the mayor, then select and, at the same time, select Kyivrada, and then determine the renewal of the district councils. This is the law, the Constitution. And let us not first violate the Constitution, the laws of Ukraine. Thank you. Please vote, support Mr. Yavorowski's bill. We had 10 of those alternative laws, we've all considered them. They're the same. Our colleagues should not be offended that there were many such initiatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-25-m0.u178	Replica, please. Victor Pinzenic.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-25-m0.u179	Dear Alexander Valentine's Day, distinguished colleagues, the strike faction always insisted that Kiev should have a mayor and elections were to be held. What we were talking about wasn't what we were talking about. We talked about something else. You saw for yourself in the hall that we don't know which project we're going to vote on. And to that end, we demanded that the MPs be given an opportunity to get to know each other. One project provides for the election of district councils, and the other for the mayor. We insist that there be a mayor's election. The second thing I want to hear. I am becoming increasingly convinced that we are missing another important decision. Judging from the trials that are taking place, from the fact that we do not yet see the draft coalition agreement, we need to announce the next election to the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-25-m0.u180	That's a nice offer. Please, one more line and we'll vote. Odarchenko, National Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-25-m0.u181	Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to the need to return the district councils to Kiev. First of all, we're not technically going to hold elections in Kiev, because one territorial commission that has to take more than that. the results of more than a thousand plots. This is technologically impossible without the absence of district councils. Then see how many people today have shown themselves in Maidan in Kiev and have proved that they can organize and run the city. I think the demand of the Chinese to form a district council must be implemented in Kiev. We are obliged to do so. There is a very simple method. Dear friends, a registered decree (4251) that allows us to cancel the amendments to the Capital Law. If we cancel these amendments to the Capital Law, we will automatically restore the district councils in Kiev. A very simple method is to vote in favour of this decree.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-25-m0.u182	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we support the reinstatement of the council in Kiev, and this has been discussed many times by the Chinese at various meetings. But we have to do it constitutionally. So I'm assigning a profile committee to look at this project, other projects to rebuild councils in Kiev. Who has the form, the constitutional form to do it, please submit this project to the next meeting. Now, dear fellows, pay attention! Project No. 4198/6, I'm reading that there's no district, there's a city, a clear name that matches the content of this project. "On the appointment of the consecutive election of the Kiev City Head and deputies of the Kiev City Council on 25 May 2014." This will save money because the election will be held at the same time as the presidential and the city. Do you understand the meaning of the decree? Please, Decree 4198/6, please put and vote as a basis and as a whole. [[13:42:43]] For 331 Decision taken. We welcome the Chinese who will be able, in accordance with the Constitution, to choose for themselves the head and deputies of the council. Hopefully it'll also be a transparent, honest, democratic election. Thank you to the national deputies who voted in favour of this decree. This is not part of the agenda, because it's about elections. Dear colleagues, please! Nestor Ivanovich, please calm down. Dear colleagues, there was an offer. We have many more regulations that apply to elections in other cities. But you've heard a persistent proposal from the strike faction regarding the priority, it's really a priority issue, formation of a coalition and a government of national trust, national trust. And I understand that there's an offer by Thursday to take a 10-hour break in our session to start Thursday at 10 a.m. with a decision to form a coalition and a government. Then all the laws will be passed. No objections? I won't. And it is these laws that will also be voted on that day. [[B in m in s a l in]] Thank you. Dear colleagues, at ten o'clock in the morning, we continue to work.
