ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council. People’s deputies are invited to take their seats and prepare for registration. Please turn on the "Race" system. People's deputies please register. [[10:02:47]] There were 316 national deputies registered in the session hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear national deputies and guests of the Supreme Council! In the fights under Ilowaysk, especially during the breakout from the environment, many Ukraine’s defenders, true patriots, and real heroes of Ukraine were killed. Please honor their light with a moment of silence. [[A Minute of Silence]] Thank you. Please sit down. Dear National Deputies, distinguished guests of the Supreme Council! Members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, heads of central and regional executive bodies, heads of judicial branch, heads of diplomatic representation from foreign states and other officials participate in the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Honorable national MPs, distinguished guests of the Supreme Council, the threat of Russia’s subversive aggression against our nation has shattered the peaceful lives of Ukraine and the Ukrainians, and so has dramatically changed the plans of the Supreme Council. In a situation of unscrupulous war involving the regular forces of the Russian Federation, Parliament cancelled the traditional summer break in its work, decided on the continuity of the fourth session to ensure the ability of the immediate legislative response to developments and the general situation in the country. This is the motivation behind the adoption of the Amendments to the Calendar Plan, which obliges us to close the fourth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the same time, in accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine, to open the fifth session. The fourth session, which began in February 2014, came to the fore with a heartbreaking, truly promising event. With the fall of the Yanuković regime and the complete destruction of the executive power, the Supreme Council of Ukraine remained the only legitimate public authority. In an overly complex political and socio-economic situation, Parliament assumed responsibility for the state of affairs in the country, formed a government and adopted the necessary legislative acts, ensuring the country's security and vitality, and holding democratic elections by the President of Ukraine recognized by the civilized world. Only this seventh assembly of parliament has earned a place in the history of parliamentaryism in Ukraine. Against this background, Parliament itself has experienced dramatic political and structural shocks. Under difficult conditions of opposition, a new parliamentary majority was formed and, after carrying out its tasks and termination of its existence, the President of Ukraine decided to suspend the powers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine until the end of the term of office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the appointment of successive elections. However, it can be argued that the result of these turbulent events has been a successful demonstration of the work that has been done by the parliament. Compared with the previous spring session, the Supreme Council of Ukraine reviewed three times the number of package projects, most of which were of a strategic, beneficial nature. During the seventy - three plenary sessions, the Parliament considered 1,908 bills, including 167 and 47 bills approved in the first reading. An important achievement of the fourth session is the restoration by Parliament of the act of the Constitution of Ukraine, which was illegally repealed under the pressure of the former President. Parliament's decision to restore the Constitution of Ukraine was taken at the request of the Ukrainian people by a constitutional majority of 306 votes. The most important bills adopted at the current session include a package of bills adopted in connection with the initiation of an antiterrorist operation in the eastern part of the country. First of all, Parliament has made rapid changes to the State budget for the current year, providing funding for our Armed Forces, the National Guard and the forces. He also adopted legislation that dealt with the activities of law enforcement agencies and the Armed Forces of Ukraine. In particular, according to the adopted law, the National Guard of Ukraine has been created, and a number of laws have been approved that strengthen Ukraine’s security and address the social protection of military personnel involved in the anti-terrorist operation and their families. Equally important legislative work by the Supreme Council should be addressed by the legislative enforcement of the European visa liberalisation plan for Ukraine, reform of State anti-corruption policy, reform of higher education, and so on. In particular, I will mark the adoption by the Ukrainian Parliament of the Law governing State social policy, such as the protection of the rights of persons with disabilities, the status of war veterans and the guarantee of their social security. During this period, the Supreme Council of Ukraine also adopted a block of bills on budgetary, economic, industrial, and investment policies. In particular, in the fourth session, laws were adopted concerning anti-crisis measures, deregulation of economic activity, and the removal of administrative pressure on economic operators, as well as the transfer of economic operators to market practice in line with European Union standards. These include laws on public procurement, on state aid to operators, on reducing the number of permits and on improving the procedure for issuing them, on simplifying the state registration procedure, and on restricting interference with the activities of operators, and so forth. For 10 years, the Ukrainian public has demanded the adoption of the Resonant Law on Social Television and Radio Broadcasting, which was finally approved by the current session of Parliament, which opens up new possibilities for democratisation of Ukrainian society. At the end of the fourth session of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, there are 2,000 221 drafts. I very much hope that the bills that we will not be able to adopt in general during the current session in connection with the early termination of the powers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will be considered by the new Supreme Council of Ukraine. I am truly grateful to all of you for your fruitful work. Thank you for your attention, dear colleagues! In accordance with the Constitution and applicable legislation, the fourth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the seventh convocation is closed and, at the same time, in accordance with article 83 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the fifth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine declares the seventh in public.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m0.u2	Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m0.u3	Dear colleagues, let us thank the government and all those who participated in opening the session of the Supreme Council and wish them fruitful work. Dear National Deputies, in accordance with article 25 of the Supreme Council Rules on Tuesday, we traditionally have 30 minutes for the presentations of authorized members of the MPs and groups with proposals, announcements and reports. Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up for statements from the Parliamentary Chamber. Please turn on the "Race" system. From the parliamentary group "Supreme European Ukraine" the word is given to the national deputy of Lithuania. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m0.u4	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! Today, Ukraine is in grave danger. At the same time, we are all looking for words to explain this situation instead of making the necessary difficult, responsible decisions, but those that are needed today in Ukraine. In recent times, the need for an extraordinary state of war has been discussed on a daily basis. I have to tell you that in this regard, the National Security and Defence Committee has made repeated decisions, recommendations, letters of address. They didn't have any reaction. And I think it's too late to talk about this today. Because first of all, what are the reserves and resources in the state in order to introduce either a military or a state of emergency? But in fact, Ukraine’s enemies in the east of Ukraine introduced both war and state of emergency. And today, above all, the problem lies, among other things, in the economic sphere, because Ukraine is, in fact, in a state of emergency. At the same time, for the sake of minute victories, in order to once again submit a report that we have raised a flag over a population site, we have spent all our reserves and resources, including human beings, and put hundreds and thousands of lives away. And the question is, why doesn't the Supreme Council of Ukraine listen in principle to information about this and ask why this is happening? Why are there undeclared ideas, why are the tasks not defined, why are the necessary capabilities and resources not put in place, and then do the necessary operations? So our group suggests that we hold a closed meeting of the Supreme Council, but not as it is conducted, listen to the ATO leaders, ask the necessary questions, invite the government, the National Security Council, the defences, and ask: What decisions should the Supreme Council of Ukraine make? What additional authority is needed for this? To give these powers, to make the necessary decisions, because the Supreme Council, after the President's decree, to my deep conviction, is not a full-fledged one. Because according to the Constitution, the President of Ukraine ceased to be authorized by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. What decisions can she make? So, as an exception, you have to make the necessary decisions, give additional authority to make it a personal responsibility. After that, you have to think about how to keep working. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m0.u5	From the "Fatherland" faction, the word is given to the national MP Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m0.u6	Dear colleagues! Dear National Deputies! Dear voters! I'd like to announce our faction's position on three basic things. Since August 27, a new timeline has actually begun. The direct incursion of Russian troops into the territory of Ukraine, which is not even hidden by Russian leadership, is actually an open-ended military operation by the regular military units of the Russian Federation against the sovereign state of Ukraine. The appropriate response to the Ukrainian Parliament should be immediate. But this reaction is possible only if the President's proposal for a state of emergency is made. Second, the country is actually ahead of its historical choice. Two things: this is the ratification of the Association Agreement with the European Union and the amendment and additions to the Ukrainian Law on the Fundamentals of Foreign and Internal Policy and the return of the key record of the rejection of the so-called non-block status and Ukraine's path to joining NATO -- this is an adequate response to today's challenges that our aggressive neighbour and his path led by the road. Thirdly, do we have to make a completely clear parallel between that and that? how the elections will take place in Parliament and how we will conduct an internal political illustration that should be a illustration for all those who supported the aggressors for all those who supported terrorists and separatists. We have to start this process with the adoption of the law on elections on a proportional basis with open lists. Regrettably, yesterday's report, which appeared on the concording board of the heads of the MPs and factions, which gave good reason to start this illustration, to carry out an electoral law on a proportional basis, which opened up the possibility of actually giving an estimate not to the money bags, not to those who give more and give more taxes in the form of Greeks or other taxes, but, in the form of programs, programming principles, the state today has no support in the Supreme Council. That's why our faction insists that any changes and additions to electoral legislation were real changes and additions to the electoral system itself on a proportional basis with open lists. That is what is needed in order for peace to be established in the country and for real changes to come to an end.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m0.u7	Thank you. Kinakh's national deputy from the Economic Development Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m0.u8	Dear National Deputies! Ukraine is forced to face unprecedented both external and internal threats and challenges. And as I turn from the integration of Economic Development into Parliament, to the President of Ukraine, I want to draw a conclusion that we think is obvious. This is not only about the aggression of the Russian Federation against Ukraine, it is not only about the so - called hybrid or nonlinear war, which uses all the means of the 21st century, including informational and cyberwaves. The point is that Ukraine has become part of an area in which global geopolitical interests compete. And so many decisions are made, not taking into account the national economic and political interests of Ukraine. And this greatly reinforces the threats not only to territorial integrity but also to the statehood of Ukraine. The Economic Development Union does not choose parliamentary seats, but we are very concerned that, against these unprecedented risks, the state is not mobilised, authorities, society, resources are not concentrated. And while our fighters are dying in the East, the government is operating in a standard bureaucratic and corruption regime. We absolutely support the need to address the situation at the highest level. The issue of war is not a subject of public debate. We need to carry out systematic, systematic, systematic, participatory discussions starting with the Foreign Intelligence Service, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Defence, the Security Service, and make decisions that can give us a chance to protect both our statehood and our national interests. No less serious and internal threats. In fact, the entire industry in the East has been halted, giving less than 15 percent of Ukraine’s gross product. In Ukraine, the problem of refugees is increasing, and the number of refugees is approaching hundreds of thousands. The government doesn't have an anti-crisis plan. And that question requires immediate consideration. Otherwise, when the military and socio-economic risks come together, we lose control of the situation with the corresponding consequences. The integration of Economic Development requires focused action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m0.u9	The People's Chamber of Commerce, the strike faction, passes the word to the national deputy, Heratchenko. Please, Irina.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m0.u10	Dear colleagues, on September 1, 1939, World War II began, and two years later, Ukraine itself became the country that adopted the first most powerful blow of the undeclared Kremlin in 1941. Undeclared by Hitler's war against the Soviet Union. Likewise today, Ukraine is taking on the frightful and first blow announced by the Kremlin. And even in this session room, seventy percent of the people are no longer afraid to talk about it as a direct military aggression. How can we defeat this adversary, this aggressor? Only by demonstrating unity and only by demonstrating loyalty to one thing is to protect Ukraine. To that end, we all need to make extremely important decisions that will work first and then strengthen our army. We just got back from the ATO zone and we were the first people's deputies who, along with my colleagues Irina Lucenko, Maria Ionova, visited the field military hospitals. That's where our first wounded boys from Ilowaysk, from, now from Luhana Airport, where the most difficult fights are taking place. So here, fellow citizens, you know, it's probably necessary for every national MP to see how heroically our boys are protecting Ukraine today, but how much more do we have to give with you, including our efforts to protect military doctors, to give them the status of participants in an anti-terror operation. At this time, the government has not developed an appropriate procedure for granting ATO membership even to our military. But it is obvious that we should appeal from the Supreme Council to ensure that this status is similarly obtained by military doctors who risk their lives every day. At the same time, just think! – that the Dnipropetrov military hospital, which accepts the most difficult wounded, is now owned by financial fraud and the sale of dishonest TV – the bank of the Russian Federation, the aggressor country, which stole half of our territory in Crimea, and is now trying to seize more pieces and, including in Crimea, as a minimum, 2 military hospitals and 6 sanatoriums. Obviously, this issue has to be resolved at a state level. As well as the fact that the only teaching facility that prepared military doctors in Kiev today is the Ukrainian Military Medical Academy, they handed over their premises to the Supreme Criminal Court. We have the poorest judges today, we ask the Supreme Council of Ukraine to decide as soon as possible and this is a matter. And the last. Obviously, only through a illustration of authority will we be able to protect Ukraine in the same way. Obviously, it is necessary to move urgently to the elections of a proportional system, so that none of those involved in the division of Ukraine who are now beginning to grow weary.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m0.u11	Let me finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m0.u12	The territory of Donbas, which is under the control of the Ukrainian authorities, has not become abundantly occupied by Parliament. We came back from Slovenia yesterday, so you know, this electric woman, she looks like such a outgoing meeting of the Supreme Council -- half of the Party of Regions is trying to sow these territories again in Greece. No one who was involved in the division of the country should get any chance to be part of the Ukrainian authorities. Glory to Ukraine! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m0.u13	People's Deputy Tuggnibok, Freedom faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m0.u14	Glory to Ukraine! Oleg Tuggnibok, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear Society, the war with Moscow in Ukraine was from early times. Because whether it was the royal Russia, whether it was the Stalinese Russia, or the Lenin Russia, whether it was the coastal Russia, whether it was the Yeltsinian Russia, or the current Putinian Russia, they always thought of Ukraine as a raw material and they were always trying to use Ukrainians as slaves and fortifications, and they were always claiming to be our territory. So Freedom has always said that in order to preserve peace in the Ukrainian state, our independence, territorial integrity, we need to be ready to confront Moscow. They wouldn't listen to us! And today, this opposition has taken on an incredible turn. And now we're talking here from the Parliamentary rostrum to Ukrainian society, which is the most important thing for us right now is to save the lives of Ukrainian people, that's the most important thing. And those votes that we now have left here in the Parliament of this convening must be aimed at preserving the lives of every Ukrainian. This is terrible when statistics have gone out today, not the individual killings of our people in our territory, but the statistics have gone! Why did this happen? Because we didn't approve the most important things here -- this is the introduction of the state of war, and we're waiting for the President, and we're asking the President to file a case here, because the state of war is the closest time to peace. We have not approved the Law on Illustration, on Cleanse of Authority, and this is overwhelming today. Because we now have a bunch of generals who are working for Moscow so far, who are working for Moscow, where relatives are sitting there, in Moscow, in their respective offices, giving up our people, and killing Ukrainians in our territory. Unfortunately, in this Parliament, we have not approved the Proportional System Act for the Open Election Lists to Parliament, and this is what we need to do, right now, in September. Take the example of the Ukrainian rebel army, of the army of the incorruptibles, for that army valued the lives of every soldier, every rebel, and every death of the commander. We don't have that in Ukraine today, unfortunately. And on October 14th, when we are with you to celebrate the Day of Restoration and Creation of the Ukrainian Insurgency Army, it must be the day of our Ukrainian victory. And on October 14th, according to the calendar plan, we have to come here to Parliament and vote on this issue of recognizing UN-UPA troops as fighters for Ukraine's state independence. Because these are symbols that will help us today to defeat Moscow’s enemy, defeat the greedy bloodthirsty Putin. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m0.u15	National Deputy Gruszewski, MP for Peace and Stability.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m0.u16	Dear colleagues, the respectable community of Ukraine, yesterday was September 1st – it's Knowledge Day. For 23 years, children could go to the 1st class with a smile on their face, and they were all happy. And what happened in 2014? The Donbas children, Lugansk, couldn't go to the 1st grade, in the ATO zone they couldn't, and near the ATO zone, and that's true. Today we have a chance, and he's about to lose a whole generation. And they're going to be children of war, and these kids will never forgive for taking their childhood away from them, for taking their college students, for taking their parents' lives, their loved ones' lives. The Western partners advise us, promise us, support us, but the biggest help of these Western partners is to cancel Ukraine's government debt in 23 years and take away all the funds that are in the Western accounts of hundreds of rich people in Ukraine, and that would be confirmation of their intentions. Instead, we are offered weapons. Why? For us to fight, for the Ukrainians to destroy the economy. And it's the destroyed economy of Donbas, Lugansk. Instead of offering a program of output, the government proposed, and most supported the transfer of GTS to management. Where's the gas? No gas. Today, the power grid is virtually shut down. Is this government's effective work? No, it's not. Today, the government is introducing fiscal decentralization -- it's a simulation because hospitals, clubs are being transferred to the centralities, to the rural councils, and there's no funds, and there's only one bill that needs to be passed to keep the income tax in the area -- where the money is being made. This is Law 2919 and this is the biggest decentralization. Today, the government should offer a three - month program on the next session day: how will pensions, payroll debts, how many benefits have been received by the majority today, those in the ATO zone, and who have received them? No! No! Because people are taking the lead: get a certificate, another certificate. Because there's no money in the budget! Dear colleagues, we must all unite and engage in real food in order to do so.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m0.u17	Give me half a minute to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m0.u18	To save the economy. And choices can be made at least every day. But the main thing is that after the elections, Ukraine remains whole and united. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m0.u19	National Deputy Bondarenko, Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m0.u20	Dear colleagues! It's been forgotten that innocently murdered thousands. The civilian population in Donbassa was killed as a result of the ATO. I beg you to observe a minute of silence in their memory. [[A Minute of Silence]] Thank you very much. It is this fact that allows me to say that the power that is now here divides people into Ukrainians and non-Ukrainians, the power that sends an army to bomb peaceful cities, criminal, the power that denies children's education.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m0.u21	I ask you to turn off the microphone and stop the provocation and Russian agitation. We've had enough O.T. and R.T.R. Please take your seat. Take your seat, please. [[B in m in s a l in]] The Ukrainian army protects Ukraine and the Ukrainian army protects you. You must kneel before the Ukrainian army. Please release the rostrum! [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, please. Please, Your Honor, we have yet to give the non-factional opportunity to speak. And I'm asking you, colleagues, attention! It's just, you know, it's kind of cool to sign up for the show. I promised the non-fractional to give my word, too, please. Turn on the "Race" system. People's MP Mishchenko from non-fractionals, please. National MP Mishchenko gives the floor to the national MP Lazko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m0.u22	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. The whole world, the entire Ukrainian society sees Russia declare war on Ukraine today. Today, because of the violent, brutal, and totally wrongful actions of Russia, the blood of Ukrainian civilians is shed, and the blood of Ukrainian military personnel is shed. And there are people who seem to be Ukrainian national deputies who come out here and work openly for the enemy. I demand that the Head of the Supreme Council take a decision immediately, a legal decision depriving the MPs of those who are working for the enemy today. Let's call things our names. Ukraine in a war situation, anyone who supports an aggressor is a traitor. The traitor must be responsible for the laws of wartime. A traitor has no right to carry the mandate of a national MP. The traitor must be shot on the front, where our young boys are shot, where the children of the Russian City are killed, Russian artillery. Alexander Petrovich Longzhenko, 125th anniversary of which we will celebrate in September, wrote in the distant stormy military of 1943: "We fight for having no price in the whole world for our Fatherland." Today, more than 70 years later, we are again forced to stand up for our Fatherland’s independence with weapons in our hands. Aggressor Putin, the Kremlin’s herd, the Kremlin’s dwarfs, and the schizophrenics left us no choice. We either have to surrender to the favor of the winner and all of a sudden this will lead to the loss of a nation, to the loss of a state, or to the struggle. I encourage Ukrainian society, I encourage Ukrainian power to fight. The path will stop only the power, the military force, the power of sanctions, the power of international opposition. Putin is schizophrenic. Putin is Hitler's successor. Putin again today. 70 years ago. 75 years ago World War II began. Today, Putin solves Ukraine, solves World War III. I'm talking to the international community, the leaders of France, Germany, other countries that I want to make a deal with Putin. Do not make mistakes against your predecessors of the 20th century. Daladiye, Chamberlain, they wanted to make a deal with Hitler, too. In summary, this has led to the defeat of its Europe, the millions of victims of the greatest world war. I'm addressing President Dusty. Don't try to make a deal with Putin. Dealing with Putin is losing the country, it's losing independence. We've got one way out. Fight! Once again, Putina will stop only her strength. It's time for radical change today. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m0.u23	Dear colleagues! All representatives of the MP factions and groups had the opportunity to speak, had the opportunity to speak out in a non-fractional manner. Now we need to move on to the agenda. And the first question that we need to discuss and vote accordingly is the order of the fifth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine – Bill No.4570a. I ask the secretariat to invite all the national deputies to the session room. Yesterday we held a Conciliation Council with the leaders of MP groups and factions, and in principle we all supported a decision that our parliament traditionally takes. In order for us not to waste the time of the Supreme Council and the South not to discuss the inclusion of individual laws in the agenda of the day, there is a proposal that all the work of the national deputies, committees, factions, we could support the single package by including all these bills in the agenda of the 5th session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I very much ask, fellow honourable Members, to support this proposal without discussion, because, once again, here are bills presented by all the MPs and factions and those who had previously been in coalition and those who had previously been in opposition. Please, Your Honor, sit on your posts and support the draft Order "On the Order of the Day of the 5th Session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the 7th Call." Please, Your Honor, vote first and foremost. Please vote. [[10:45:16]] For 204 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. 59 – "The Fatherland", 0 – "The Regions", "The UDA" – 26, 27 – "Economic Development", "For Peace and Stability" – 1, "The Sovereign European Ukraine" – 25, "Freedom" – 35, non-fractional – 31. Dear colleagues! I want to ask representatives of MP groups and factions, leaders of MP groups and factions. Has anything changed since yesterday? Nothing's changed. I see that the Party of the Regions does not support the agenda. Let's vote in favour of excluding the laws of the Party of Regions. Because they don't vote. Can we vote that way, dear fellows? We can. Alexander Sergiyovich, will the faction vote? It won't. Let's get rid of the Bills of the Party of Regions. We're backing up the agenda for the fifth session. Please, dear fellows. Please, colleagues, national MPs. I ask you, National Deputy Timoshenko, others in the aisles, let's vote, this applies to your bills so that we don't waste every time we put them in the agenda. Please take your seats. Please proceed to the vote, distinguished national MPs. Please support the draft Decree 4570: on the order of the day session of the Supreme Council, the seventh call with the comments I have announced. Please, Your Honor, vote for everyone. Please turn on the "Race" system. Please be supportive. Sergey Grigorovitch, this is the order of the day. [[10:47:04]] For 208 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. 75 – "Paternality", 0 – "Regions", 29 – "Economic development" – 20, "For Peace and Stability" – 0, "North European Ukraine" – 22. Please, Your Honor, I ask you to give the representatives of groups and factions a moment's notice. Oleg Tuggnibok. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m0.u24	Oleg Tuggnibok, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. So, society, I want all of Ukraine that's listening to us now or watching us to understand what's going on in the session room right now. Yesterday at the Conciliation Council, the representatives of the Party of Regions, it doesn't matter what they're now called -- stability, instability, the Party of Regions or anything else, they said they'd vote for all issues to be put into the agenda so that we don't take the time and vote here on one question. And this will only be a day vote by lunchtime. And we need to vote for those laws that will help us win the war with Moscow. But these bastards, they're terrorist textbooks, and we heard Bondarenko come out here and talk nonsense. They actually serve Moscow, so they don't vote. I'm talking to those who were the post-Study Coalition here in the hall, let's concentrate, 100 percent of the votes. Look how Freedom-- all 100 percent voted and lost their noses. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m0.u25	Thanks for the offer. Please, People's Deputy Rosenko, Strike.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m0.u26	Paul Rosenco, Vitaly Caller's Faction. Dear Alexander Valentinovich, distinguished national MPs! Well, I'm just deeply offended by the position of the Communist Party and factions. Today in Ukraine, de facto, war. We have in our consideration the Supreme Council of Ukraine a whole series of laws to strengthen our defence, defence and protection of every Ukrainian citizen in the aggression we see today in the East. We must protect everyone as the national electorate. And today we see a direct blockage of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, a break in the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, an effort to actually disarm us before the invasion of a foreign aggressor. That's why I'm calling on all the national MPs to return to the hall right now. And you, Alexander Valentinovich, are to re-vote the calendar of the work.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m0.u27	Thank you. National Deputy Gruszewski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m0.u28	Thank you, Alexander Valentinovich. About five hundred or six hundred bills are in the daily order. A respected community and respected colleagues, perhaps qualitatively considering and adopting these bills -- no. Today is a special period in Ukraine. Therefore, the order of the day should be special, distributed. Government laws that should aim at the economic stability of the situation in Ukraine. The laws of the National Deputies are not popular, but are effective, which they are going to be really solving today in Ukraine. This is Law 2919 to keep the income tax in Ukraine. It's not the time to adopt drafts like pie pies. Today, it is time to analyze the bill, not by a reduced procedure, but by a balanced procedure. Because every bill depends on a Ukrainian's life not for a year.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m0.u29	Please, the Zarubinsky People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m0.u30	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! Our group and I personally voted in favour of the agenda, and we will continue to vote if it does. And that gives me the right to be completely objective, now to say what I say. Dear colleagues, the authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to call the seventh President's decree has been suspended for the time being. Legislation is one of the key responsibilities. Thus, by this decree, our authority is complete. Yes, there is the principle of continuity of power, but there is a serious legal conflict. That's why I think we should vote in favour of this agenda, but to pay attention to what the representative of our group, Vladimir Litwin, said, should be very serious, not decorative, closed-ended meetings with three key issues. The situation of defense of our nation is once. The situation with energy in winter is two. And the financial system. That's what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m0.u31	Please, National Deputy Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m0.u32	Dear colleagues, two and a half hours yesterday, the Conciliation Council took into account all the proposals made by the national deputies, the factions that were put into the agenda for this session. I think there's no question of who was involved is one that doesn't correspond to the state of things in the country. This is the financing of the Armed Forces, this is the issue of tax regulation, this is the issue of budgetary legislation. In my opinion, all those who don't vote today, and this is obviously the faction of Peace and Stability, the Communist faction and the faction of the regions, have actually done everything possible to fail the vote on the most important issues of the order of the day. Our proposal is to put it to the vote again. And I think that any MP who understands how responsible the decisions are will support that decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m0.u33	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I just want to remind you that the factions of Communists in the Supreme Council of Ukraine do not exist for the protocol. Please, National Deputy Rudzkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m0.u34	Dear colleagues, from nonfractional I turn to the faction deputies who have been among the majority, let us unite and vote on all the laws that we have not worked on in the previous session, which are now absolutely necessary. We have a question and a moratorium on raising municipal tariffs, and we also have a question of amending the budget. Because in many areas, teachers don't pay salaries for two or three months because they're not budgeted. We have the issue of preparing for the winter, and there are bills that will enable us to survive the winter, we have questions about the security and security of the army, and other issues that are absolutely necessary today. I'm calling, Alexander Valentine's Day, once again to put up, invite MPs from the towers, and let's make this decision, it's absolutely necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m0.u35	I'm going to the secretary's office, and I'm asking you to make another announcement so that all the deputies in the Supreme Council house can come into the session room. One last speech, please, from this question, Anatoly Kinach.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m0.u36	Thank you. The Economic Development Union. Dear National Deputies! The Economic Development Union supports the proposed agenda. We ask all of our colleagues that in the context of trying to make a very questionable, from the point of view of the outcome, of the early elections in order to overcome Russia's military aggression, in the context of a deepening socio-economic crisis, our work, which is geared towards public interest, needs to be in the second place. But there is a clear, priority plan of issues that must be formulated, including by the government and parliament, this is the ratification of the Association Agreement with the European Union, the non-blocking status, the solution of industrial and energy problems, especially in the East, the taxation of charitable aid, etc. And this plan must be implemented immediately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m0.u37	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I ask you once again to sit in my workplace. Please, colleagues, pay attention! Catherine Timofievna, please take your seat! [[B in m in s a l in]] I know, I know! Please, Igor Alexiyovich, go to your place of work. Let's try it now, colleagues, vote. This is the last time I'm gonna vote. I understand that many deputies have already begun to run electoral projects. But, dear fellows, the country is in a state where we should have elections in the second or tenth term. First, there must be the protection of Ukraine and the legislative decisions needed to do so. Please, Your Honor, support the adoption of the Order on the Order of the Day of the Fifth Session of the Supreme Council of the Seventh Call. Registration number, I recall, 4570a. I'd like all the national deputies to vote. Please. [[10:57:37]] For 236 Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen, the next question was also discussed at the Conciliation Council of Heads of Deputies and factions, and there was a proposal, considering that an electoral campaign had begun, taking into account that very many issues to be resolved by deputies in their districts, meeting with voters, including, and working to assist the army in the area of counter-terrorism, to reduce the number of sessions of the Supreme Council's work. You have been introduced by the Regulatory Committee to modify the calendar plan for the fifth session of the Supreme Council of the Seventh Call (registration number 4573a). It's very short on the content of this project. It includes a position that during the sessional weeks the sessionary parliament only works on Tuesday. All the other days are in committees and districts. If it is necessary to immediately assemble the Supreme Council, coming from a situation in the country that the Head of the Supreme Council has the right to announce immediately the meeting, a session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this issue? I see you don't. Thank you. Olegs, please determine how to vote in support of Project 4573a. Vote please, Your Honor. [[10:59:26]] For 169 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Parenthood – 37, Party of Regions – 0, Impact – 29, Economic Development – 28, "MSP" – 3, "North European Ukraine" – 26, "Freedom" – 0, non-fractional – 46. Dear colleagues, I see there are no votes under this decision. I propose not to discuss it, because I do not see the mechanism for its adoption. Move on to the order of the day, dear colleagues. Please, the draft Law on Amendments to the Customs Code of Ukraine (to simplify imports of defence-related products) (registration number 4555a). Please, Your Honor, support the consideration of these issues in the first reading on a reduced procedure. Dear colleagues, please support the proposal, please vote. [[11:00:32]] For 217 It's a procedural decision, I think. To – 217. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I'd like to ask Deputy Defence Minister Meheda Peter Mikolaiovich to report on the draft law.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m0.u38	Dear Alexander Valentinovich, distinguished national MPs! Draft law. (registration 4555a and 4556a) developed by the Ministry of Defence with the aim of liberating the customs territory of Ukraine from taxes on imported customs duties and taxes on added value of defence supplies. During a special period of emergency and during the course of an anti-terror operation. A list that is approved by the Cabinet of Ministers. Article 197 of the Ukrainian Tax Code and article 282 of the Ukrainian Customs Code are amended. These changes will allow the Ministry of Defence to facilitate the importation into Ukrainian customs of defence-related products, reduce its costs and allow the rapid provision of units of the Ukrainian Armed Forces and other military-grade weapons, military and special equipment, ammunition during a special period. At the same time, an alternative bill, introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers, has been registered in the Supreme Council, which is initiated by the national deputy of Ukraine, Teryohinim. The alternative bill duplicates the draft law introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers and, compared to the latter, reduces the operationality of the resolution of the issue of the security of the Armed Forces. Please support the bills (registration number 4555a and 4556a) submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m0.u39	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Please. Have a seat, please, Peter Mikolaiovich. From the committee head of the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy, Homutinnik Vitaly Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m0.u40	Dear colleagues! Dear Alexander Valentinovich! The laws introduced by the government certainly need adequate protection equipment today, taking into account what is going on in the military. Therefore, the bills introduced to amend the Customs Code are intended to exempt tax and customs and to tax the added value of imports into Ukraine of military equipment and other items to be ordered by the Ministry of Defence. The only difference between the bills submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers and the alternative bill by Sergey Teryochina is that the national deputy Teryohin proposes to write clear codes for that nomenclature of positions that will be imported. Therefore, the committee in such cases has always stood in the position of a clear list of codes so that there are no grounds for abuse of this legislation. So if you do, the committee only received these bills today and has not yet been able to consider them. But my personal opinion is that we need to adopt a more balanced bill so that after a certain period of time, we don't blame each other for bringing any other goods that would not be needed by the army and directing the benefits to these ends. So if there was such an agreement, it would be possible to vote in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m0.u41	Please let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m0.u42	And to the second reading, if we work on Thursdays, take the final edition or listen to the national deputy Teryochin, if these positions are clarified and agreed in the government that are proposing codes in his bill, then accept his bill as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m0.u43	I see. Dear colleagues, given that these two laws are related to each other, these are laws 4555a and 4556a, 4556a-1. It is the same position as for simplifying the import of defence products and not taxing them. This includes changes to the Customs Code and to the Tax Code. In view of the fact that the Deputy Defence Minister has actually presented two positions of support, I would like to ask the author of the alternative law, Sergio Terhochina, to act immediately and then to discuss these two laws immediately. [[4556a-1]] Please, Sergey Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m0.u44	Thank you, Alexander Valentinovich. Dear colleagues, good afternoon. The main difference between the government bills, my bill, is that according to the Constitution of Ukraine and the requirements of the Tax Code and the Customs Code, in my Bill, the written codes under the law are directly required by the Fourth Decisions of the Constitutional Court. I want to make a statement about what codes are, in commodity terms: 3601-3603 are capsules, detonators, rockets; 8710 are tanks, armored or without weapons, and parts of them; part of Group 90 are telescopic targets, other optical devices for weapons; a group of 93 except for hunting weapons, all kinds of swords and so on are weapons and ammunition, their parts and devices. If we were to write these codes in both bills and in principle it was possible to adopt them as a whole. The only observation, Alexander Valentine's Day, is that the Customs Code gives temporary exemption from duty, the most moment of arms duty we have is TNZEDI, which is 5 percent. Please tell me, how many more decades will we have to bring weapons into Ukraine? True, it's not a temporary move, you just have to lower this 5 percent by these codes to zero, and don't let them be taxed by a bribe. And another one for the VAT. There's another problem. If, let's say, BTR is delivered abroad it's not a VAT, but if the BTR is supplied by a Ukrainian factory, there's a VAT. So in order to tax weapons, armored weapons are imported and manufactured inside Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m0.u45	Allow me to finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m0.u46	This exemption should be extended to both domestic and foreign products. With that in mind, I don't think the government has any objection to this issue, with codes, with customs, with discharges not for a period of time, but ultimately, not 5 percent, but zero. With the spread of VAT benefits for both foreign and domestic military productions, these two laws can be adopted as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m0.u47	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the only thing I want to say is, Sergey Anatolyevich, we don't import armored equipment, we export it, we export it. So we don't have a form of transportation of both BTRs and tanks, and so on, because this is our export position. I see. Dear colleagues, please sign up for this statement. Please turn on the "Race" system. National MP Tajnibok Oleg Jaroslavovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m0.u48	I'd like to give the word to Michael Blaujak.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m0.u49	Please turn on Michael Blavacky's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m0.u50	Mikhail Blaujki, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Honorable Society, Honourable Deputies! This bill has only been registered with 29 numbers, it has not passed through our committee's consideration. Although this is a very important law, and I think we need to invite the head of Ucroborprom to the committee to give us a clear answer today, how much has been counted from the Ministry of Defence and from the state budget for the repair and construction of new technology, how much tanks are today? We have information that the new RBMs that are coming to arm the Ministry of Defense are now entering private enterprises for the so-called processing and processing of one that we don't understand. When an air conditioner is offered in the BMW today, or additional radios, when more than 80 million dollars have been spent on radios at the same time, and where they are not available. Because we see what the situation is today. Also, consider and place all weapons by code, as proposed by the Teryochina Bill. We will support all of this, but together we will have great claims today to our government and to the Secretary of Defense. Because of today’s enormous claim to the head of the fiscal service, 140 billion dollars were removed from Ukraine in four months by offshore companies. Today there is no Yanukovich, and whoever is involved in these schemes, we have no answer. And we should get that those companies that are in offshore companies might be putting up arms from the Russian Federation. We're against it, too. We need to know everything. Lists of our ministries, Prime Minister. Our Cabinet of Ministers should not be taken into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m0.u51	Thank you. National Deputy Catherinechuk Mikola Dmitrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m0.u52	Mikola Catherinechuk, Fatherland faction, European Party of Ukraine. Of course, the very approach in both bills deserves support. Yes, we need to take what is necessary to ensure that our defences are the same, not only at the expense of domestic GDP, but also the opportunities that exist in the United States and in the European partners. And to do that, we need to set up a certain regime for tax transactions. Because it's going to kind of accelerate all of these, let's say, measures that just need to be done. Our GDP, our GDP is basically heavy weapons. Tanks, BTRs, what you're talking about, but it's very important that we have modern optical high-precision weapons and devices. And I'm sure the Department of Defense and Teriochin's offer are exactly what they're going to do to ensure that we have this kind of cooperation in the defence field. The only thing I would ask, however, is for the Ministry of Defence to consider that we have a real decision by the Constitutional Court that prohibits the government from conducting such things on its own. Therefore, Terhochin’s bill needs to be supported in the first reading, both in general and immediately. And vote for everyone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m0.u53	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Bezbach, Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m0.u54	Please pass the word to Anne Herman, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m0.u55	Please turn on the microphone of National Deputy Herman.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m0.u56	Hanna Herman, faction of the Party of the Regions. Dear colleagues, the bill indicates that the authorities are not preparing for a peaceful settlement, the authorities are planning to continue the war and make a lot of money in war for firms near the government. Soldiers and officers, as poorly equipped in the ATO area, are poorly equipped, they die mass, and government firms earn money in war. And today, even without codes, we should allow them to import without a moment. God knows what. If you say, Alexander Valentine's Day, we don't need BTRs, we don't need tanks, because we have our own, we specifically import, whose firms are at it, and how much will they make? And when will Ukrainian soldiers who are badly equipped cease to die, and what are in the ATO zone? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m0.u57	People's Deputy Solda, strike faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m0.u58	Dear Alexander Valentinovich, dear colleagues! In fact, we're in a situation where we're talking to other countries, we're asking international organizations to help us fight the aggressor, and at the same time we're trying, well, the situation that is, to draw customs out of this aid. That's why the Vitalia Klitschka faction clearly supports the reduction and difference in import duties for Ukraine's weapons. Because we know all the old, ancient saying, "You want peace, get ready for war." That is why Ukraine must now do everything in its power to be the subject of negotiations with the whole world and, above all, with Russia today. We also want to point out that the list given in the Anatoliovich Bill may not be exclusive. And there might be a situation that you and I had when we adopted laws that defined exclusive censuses and then found out that there was something else to be written about, and that was the law. So we propose to leave the list behind the Cabinet of Ministers in order to provide all our Armed Forces, but at the same time we support Sergey Anatoliyevich's proposal that the conditions for production should be equal for imports of both imported arms and their own weapons. The VAT should therefore be the same for both imports and production. We will support the bill and do everything we can to ensure that peace prevails as quickly as possible in the East and throughout its territory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m0.u59	Thank you for your support. Dear colleagues, I'd like to ask you, Sergey Anatolyevich, one minute I'll give you, from the rostrum, to make it clear.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m0.u60	Thank you, Alexander Valentinovich. It is very good that there is virtually a consensus in this room on this issue. I'd like to rephrase under the transcript, how can these two laws be adopted in the first reading and in general? In a position of duty. To set up a list, according to TNZED codes, it's excluded, it's agreed, and not for a period of time, it's a bribe, there's 5 percent like it, but at all cancel it. This is in line with our obligations to the World Trade Organization as a whole, and we can reduce. Tax on added value. Set up a list of weapons and equipment and weapons. Second, set free both for imported weapons and for those produced by domestic enterprises. There is indeed a temporary nature to this benefit, since it must be limited.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m0.u61	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m0.u62	Limited time for an antiterrorist operation, but, or if, God forbid, a state of emergency or, God forbid, a state of war, also a time of state of emergency or war.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m0.u63	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I ask you to sit on your seats, prepare for an important vote. I ask the secretariat to make an announcement so that all the national deputies can enter the session hall. While MPs sit in their jobs, you know, I want to inform you that the leadership of the Supreme Council, along with the Ukrainian scientists, has developed a new job for the national MP, fully computerized, cannot vote for another, cannot use another national deputy card, etc. But, dear colleagues, I'm looking at, let's say, the session hall, and I see that this project is not working. Why? Because we still need to find out in new jobs the position of a national deputy to fasten it or somehow stick it to the workplace, so that at least until the break, the national deputy doesn't run around the hall or in the towers, but works in the Supreme Council. So scientists will have to work on a new job as a national deputy. Colleagues, please take your seats and talk later. Serious, responsible voting, important voting. Please prepare for the vote. Invite all the national MPs. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, there is a proposal to support a bill to amend the Customs Code (to simplify the import of defence products), 4555a on the basis of amendments and comments made by the national deputy Terjohin. No objection, dear colleagues? There's no objection. Please, Your Honor, support as a whole. Please vote. [[11:20:29]] For 225 Dear colleagues. The factions, please. I'm asking you to take your seats. Please invite all deputies, colleagues, to the session room. 71 – "The Fatherland", 0 – Regions, "The Strike" – 34, 26 – "The Economic Development", 0 – MMU, "The Sovereign European Ukraine" – 25, 35 – "Freedom" – non-fractional – 34. Ladies and gentlemen, please come to the session room. Please return to making this decision. Please, Your Honor, support the return to Bill 4555a. Please vote. Vote! Vote! [[11:21:15]] For 233 Decision taken. Now please, dear fellows, don't relax, Edward Josephovich, please press the button. On the ground and in general, please vote. [[11:21:42]] For 234 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's take this as a basis, and in general, the bill 4556a-1 is the co-operational law of Sergey Teryochin and his writings. Please support, Your Honor, this refers to the amendment to the Tax Code to simplify the import of defence supplies. These are two laws that solve one question. Please vote on the basis and in general. [[11:22:19]] For 231 Decision taken. Thank you. The factions, please. 73 "for" – "For" – "For" – "For" – "Patternal" – "The Party of Regions" – 0, "Bowl" – 35, 28 – "Economic development", "MS" – 0, "Sovereign European Ukraine" – 25, "Freedom" – 35, "non-fractional" – 35. Dear colleagues, these votes show all the Ukrainians who support the army, who support the country's defence, and who work for the Russian invaders. And that's the conclusion that our citizens should make along with the Attorney General's Office, by the way. Dear colleagues, the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the inclusion of means of transport to remove the population from the area of emergency, areas of possible hostilities. Please, Your Honor, 4554a. Head of the State Department of Emergency Situations, Bochkovsky Sergey Stanislavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m0.u64	Dear Mr. Head, honourable national deputies, the draft Ukrainian Act to amend certain Ukrainian laws on the inclusion of transport vehicles from an emergency zone, areas of possible hostilities, prepared by the Ukrainian State Service from an emergency. The aim of the project is to establish legal rules for the involvement of transport vehicles by amending the laws of Ukraine: "Pro transport", "On rail transport", "On legal state of emergency", "On legal state of war regime", "On road transport" and the Code of Civil Protection of Ukraine. The basis of the bill is that the volume of means of transport by types and brands that are planned to be involved in population export measures is established by the authority that has taken the decision. Transportation facilities can be involved both in the management and in the citizenry of the population. In doing so, it is envisaged to settle the issue of registration and the issuance of licences for the inclusion of a vehicle in the export of the population that is issued to the driver. The implementation of the Act will also make it possible to regulate legislatively the issue of compensation for the cost of services and the extent of actual costs incurred by the owner and citizen of the means of transport involved in the export of the population. The compensation for such expenses is planned to be made on the basis of the funds allocated from the corresponding budget to eliminate the consequences of an emergency or to eliminate the risk of an emergency. The adoption of the law will allow transport to be involved in the necessary amount of transportation to remove the population from the area of emergency situations and areas of possible combat.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m0.u65	Allow me to finish the speech. Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m0.u66	minimize human spending and the amount of material damage they cause. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m0.u67	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Is the committee head of the Boris Kolesnikov Committee ready to report? Can't I see him in the session room? Please contact Boris Kolesnikov. (Sit down, please.) Your report under this law. This law applies to the protection of the civilian population in the area of anti-terrorist operations.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m0.u68	Dear colleagues! The law came late last night, today.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m0.u69	Farion, you've been crying about a crazy house for a long time, you're ruining Ukraine. By law, I'll say he was late at night.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m0.u70	Please report the law, please. Report the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m0.u71	The law was late at night, the committee had not considered, there was no conclusion on the committee and there was no possibility. Let the Cabinet of Ministers learn to file documents in time. The opinion of the Committee cannot be considered. For you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m0.u72	Please turn off the microphone. Dear colleagues! I'll remind you that it's about protecting the civilian population in the area of conducting an anti-terrorist operation, and it puts people's lives at risk every day. I'm surprised at the position of head of the committee who, by the way, says he's from Donbas. Therefore, honourable colleagues, please sign up for this statement. Yank People's Deputy, Freedom faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m0.u73	Please pass the word to Anatoly Vitov.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m0.u74	Please turn on Anatoly Vitova's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m0.u75	Anatoly Vitov of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Of course, the evacuation of wounded from the war zone is extremely urgent. I had a conversation two days ago with one of the doctors who works at the 51st Brigade. In fact, the situation is catastrophic. Now we're basically doing holes, because all the standards that are now in that law are clearly laid down in the Military Status Act. And now we're improving something, instead of bringing it to Parliament, the President's State of War Act, we're patching up holes. For many of the standards in that Law on the Status of War are urgently needed. They include all the standards that are in the law. Of course Freedom supports the adoption of that law, but we have to get out of the mainstream, we have to call things our names now. We've now taken the position of an ostrich: we're hiding our heads in the sand and saying there's no war. When the whole world claims that there's an open aggression by Russia that's going on in the Ukrainian-Russian war, and we the Ukrainian Parliament and the President can't possibly admit that perfect fact. But let us finally call things by our names and act according to the Law on Military Status, and then many issues that need to be resolved will be resolved promptly, rather than prolonged when our thousands of people are killed. Yesterday, 20 men from the 51st Brigade were brought to Volin. By what time will we be mistreated by the Ukrainian people? Let's call things our names and start fighting for Ukraine's independence. Let's stand up for the Ukrainian state! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m0.u76	Nemira National Deputy, Fatherland faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m0.u77	Please give the floor to Deputy Odarchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m0.u78	Please turn on the microphone of the People’s Deputy Odarchenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m0.u79	Yuri Odarchenko, Fatherland faction. Alexander Valentine's Day, I'm sure we're on the wrong track when we're changing civil law for martial law. Now you and I all clearly see that the laws that we passed with you in the framework of civil law breaking and helping those who are fighting don't work. There's a clear mechanism for reacting to this kind of thing, for reacting to war is to introduce martial law. And today, by thinking of someone else, we're putting people's lives in the zone of action in which they're in the middle of changing civil law. All the officers, the ranks that come out of the ATO area today, indicate that there is no structure to help organize the fighting, they indicate that there is absolutely no structure. They show that all ATO participants are acting alone and that many people are killed, many injured. Convinced that the introduction of martial law will settle these issues and give us confidence in victory. Do we have any signs of aggression by the Russian Federation? Yes, we are absolutely clear, however, that they aggressively take over our territories in Donetsk, Lugansk, including the Herson region of Chongari, 12 kilometers away from the Russian army, they have taken possession of Ukrainian property. And today, when we're dancing to someone, we're not entering a state of war, we're pretending that we're changing civil law. I want to remind everyone that changing civil law is forever.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m0.u80	Let me finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m0.u81	I want to remind everyone that the changes to civil legislation that we now adopt will always be, and the introduction of martial law, it regulates the actions of the military, the actions of the civilian population, the national economy only during the war. I insist that the Supreme Council raise with the President the issue of the introduction of martial law so that we can prevent further victims who are now in the ATO zone as a result.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m0.u82	Thank you. People's Deputy Kaplan, Strike.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m0.u83	Please pass the word to Oksani Prodan.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m0.u84	Please turn on Oksana Prodan's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m0.u85	Dear Alexander Valentinovich! Dear colleagues! We voted with you in the spring law on mobilisation and mobilization, and in that bill, already in force, there are rules that define the mobilisation plan for the mobilisation of transport vehicles. There are rules regarding the approval of the Cabinet of Ministers of the Military and Transport Obligations Act. In fact, there is now all the authority in the Cabinet of Ministers to determine in what order transport equipment should be removed in order to ensure the really necessary evacuation of people in the East of Ukraine today. Why does this not happen? Why there is still no established order, provided for by our approved and adopted law regarding compensation for all the people who have been mobilized today for their salaries from the state budget, which the Cabinet of Ministers should also make. We don't have an answer either. And to my references to the Cabinet of Ministers, where this order, I get answers about what's being prepared, and there's not even a project. At the same time, we realize that there may be a problem. And ready to support the Cabinet of Ministers initiative, but the bill provides for the issuance of certificates again in an approved Cabinet of Ministers order. And we realize that this standard of work is not going to work again, as not all of the things we've accepted with you before. In addition, the bill provides compensation for transportation costs to only natural persons. Compensation for the loss of legal persons, businesses that are largely to be implemented and are already evacuating, is not provided for in this bill. So we suggest that we prepare the amendments for the second reading of the text that is actually going to work. But today I would very much ask, Alexander Valentine's Day, to draw the attention of the Cabinet of Ministers to the fact that its competence today is once again a possibility provided by the law for a position to be approved by the Cabinet, to settle this issue and to ensure the proper evacuation of those people.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m0.u86	I got the offer. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m0.u87	Vladimir Kudrija, the city of Alexandria, Kirovograd. Dear colleagues, distinguished voters, at all times military and not very military were such a motto. The commander went out and said to his subjects, "Do as I do." I looked at the reporter today, at his body count, speaking Russian, and I'd like to ask how many times he's pulled on the translated, how many times he's making a coup, and how many seconds does he have three floors with a steep ladder coming up. As long as such commanders are already consumed with food, never will the Ukrainian people and the Ukrainian army win any victory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m0.u88	Please turn on the microphone of national deputy Kuzmuk Alexander Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m0.u89	Dear colleagues, you and I are seeing these laws today that are duplicating each other. And then there is the law that also speaks of transportation obligations. What's the matter? And because so far there has not been a Supreme Commander's bet that would clearly control these things. It's not made because there's no martial law. We will continue to adopt laws to save a situation. Today we need to think about transporting to Mariupol, and we are still waiting. I ask again, let's recommend to the President a decision on the conduct of martial law throughout the state.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m0.u90	Please, the Zarubinsky People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m0.u91	Thank you, Alexander Valentinovich. Dear colleagues, practically representatives of all factions and groups spoke of one thing: they talked about what 10, 15, 20 bills and laws can be adopted, where there are some fragmented things (there are cars, there may be buses, there are transports) but this is all prescribed in Ukrainian legislation on the state of war. I think it's enough to manipulate electoral things, to find arguments, to, you see, when a state of war, maybe someone can't use their ratings, so far as it's obvious. Today the issue of martial law is a defence issue for Ukraine. The one speaking out against the state of war today does not stand up for the term, they will take place for God’s sake, but he will act to be a personal, hierarchical, clear responsibility down to the mountain. There must be responsibility for the defense of the state, a state of war.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m0.u92	Dear colleagues, we've discussed this, it's important enough. With regard to the state of war, many national deputies raised the issue. Colleagues, I would like to remind you that the Supreme Council cannot vote on this law on its own. We can only approve the decision given to the Parliament by the President of Ukraine and, I am sure, in this case, the Supreme Council will not delay. But while that decision is gone, the Supreme Council cannot observe the problems that are now in the course of an anti-terrorist operation, in fact, fighting for the protection of our country. And that's why you and I are forced to adopt laws that duplicate the state of war, but which solve specific issues. In this case, it's about evacuating civilians wounded from the area of combat. And here, dear fellows, I think we should support it. In the case of decision-making, all the laws that duplicate, we'll be able to make one decision to correct them or cancel them, but we need to act now. And the Supreme Council, I say again, cannot be an observer in these matters. Please, dear colleagues, come to the session room and sit down (I gave everyone the word who signed up, the honourable colleagues). I, my colleagues, ask all the national deputies to take their seats. Please, dear fellows, sit down. Colleagues, the faction may insist on one minute, please, in case they don't sign up for the performance. Debenkov, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m0.u93	I give the word to Butkovsky Victor Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m0.u94	Dear Alexander Valentinović, first of all, I would like to make a comment to the previous speaker, "For Peace and Stability", who began criticizing the entirely illegal head of the public service. Man has worked in the ATO since the first days and has been in the ATO on several occasions, even talking about civilians themselves. But by returning to the law, remove the word “civil population” and add those road enterprises that are carriers of the civilian population and we will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m0.u95	I got the offer. Dear colleagues, it was an offer to receive it immediately in the first reading, not in general. And to the second reading by a reduced procedure to work out, including the proposal of the people's representative of Butkowski. Is there no objection? That's also what the strike faction insisted on during its performance. Ladies and gentlemen, please support Project 4554a, first reading, please. Please, colleagues, this is what is now going to be voted on with this brief procedure to finalize this law and to adopt it as a basis and as a whole in the near future. Please support, Your Honor, Bill 4554 on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Laws (for the involvement of transport vehicles to remove the population from the area of emergency situations in the area of possible hostilities). Please, colleagues, vote. [[11:41:55]] For 234 Decision taken. I ask for a summary procedure to support consideration of this law. Please vote, Your Honor, for the summary of this matter. Please. [[11:42:18]] For 219 Colleagues, 219, have made a decision for a reduced procedure. Dear friends, I am addressing you, people cannot wait for the full procedure to be followed by this law. It's about people's lives. I'd like to ask, let's vote in favour of the shorter procedure. Please, Your Honor, support me. [[11:42:47]] For 234 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have an opportunity with you to make a personal decision. Please, Your Honor, let's not split up. The issue is resolved quickly enough by voting. On August 20, Ukrainian Minister of Economic Development and Trade Sheremet Pavel Mikhajlovich applied to the Supreme Council of Ukraine for his resignation as a member of the Cabinet of Ministers. Pursuant to article 80, paragraph 12, of the Constitution of Ukraine, article 18 of the Law on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine deals with the question of the release of Sheremet Paul Mikhailovich from office of the Minister of Economic Development and Trade of Ukraine in connection with the application for resignation. People's deputies are asked to determine how to vote. Questions, Your Honor? Please turn on the Caplin microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m0.u96	Dear colleagues, when we consider such an important issue, in such socio-economic conditions that the state is now in, should we listen to the minister, arguing that he is there or who does not like it? Why is he leaving? What did he do? And what we need to do so that we don't have a number of ministers to go before the election, I take it, in the district of ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m0.u97	Dear colleagues, according to the information I have from the Cabinet of Ministers, Mr. Sheremet is now actually filing a statement that does not perform his functions. And that is why we cannot delay, assign a fulfilling responsibility, and so forth. It's his right to write a resignation application. He took advantage of that right. I'm asking my colleagues to make sure that we can still effectively ensure the work of the Ministry of Economics. There is a first deputy, there will be proposals, I have doubts that the Supreme Council will accept regarding the appointment of a minister. I hope that the new Supreme Council will form a new cabinet of ministers. But in these circumstances, so that we don't create a problem when the work is blocked, the Ministry of Economics is effective. Please support your decision to release Paul Mikhailovich Sheremet from office as Minister of Economic Development and Trade of the respective resignation application. Vote your honorary colleagues. [[11:45:35]] For 213 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Parenthood – 60, Party of Regions – 37, Impact – 0, Economic Development – 15, SMS – 1.25 – Sovereign European Ukraine, 35 – Freedom – non-fractional – 40. I'm asking you to turn on the faction manager's microphone. Vitaly Anatolovich, what's the problem with hitting the vote? We're going to block another vote now, and I'm predicting this process.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m0.u98	Dear colleagues! Dear Alexander Valentinovich! Once again, I would like to emphasize our position that we believe that the Minister of Economics should do it before. raise awareness of his activities and give reasons for his retirement during this period. And if it doesn't work, then it has to be released under an article of the Labour Code, according to the Cabinet of Ministers Act, that's all.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m0.u99	I've got the position. Thank you for being constructive. And I'm going to see how some laws will continue to be voted on. Please, Your Honor, next question. Next question, it concerns the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine to ensure proper organization and the conduct of the elections of Ukraine's national deputies. I would ask the head of the State Building Committee and the local self - government of Zwania David Važajevich to come out to the rostrum. As he prepares for the report, I will comment very briefly on the situation, dear colleagues. What is it? The point is that we have technical issues that are not solved. The election campaign has begun. We can't change the electoral format right now because there will be lawsuits and it will be determined that elections in Ukraine are not legitimate. But there are technical regulations that do not apply to the principle of electoral legislation. But these changes will allow us to save up to 300 million dollars and ensure a transparent, efficient electoral campaign. Please, David Vazievich, focus on this.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m0.u100	Thank you. Dear colleagues, honourable chairman, the draft Ukrainian Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on the provision of an independent organization and the holding of elections of Ukrainian national deputies (registration number 4331) was developed by me in view of the fact that the analysis of the application of electoral legislation in the 2012 parliamentary elections, the pre-registration presidential elections of 2014, in addition to the local elections, shows the need to improve the specific provisions of the Ukrainian National Elections Act, which governs the conduct of electoral procedures. The majority of the changes are aimed at clarifying and detailing the provisions of the law in force, correcting the terms of the electoral process, reducing the budget costs of the elections, and ensuring security for members of the electoral boards when exercising their powers to protect electoral ballots and other electoral documents. I propose to reduce the expenditure from the State budget to the organization of elections; to remove the state funding of the pre-election campaign in the media and to publish information on the organization of the electoral process in the media; to reduce the minimum composition of the KLA to 12 people. between 12 and 9 persons and the VAT — from 10 to 8 persons; not to train members of the election boards at the expense of the budget. This will lead to an economy of about 140 million dollars from the State budget of Ukraine. I propose to optimize the organization of the electoral process: to make adjustments to the terms of the organization of the individual electoral procedures and to publish the decisions of the commission; to refer to the authority of the CEI to the production of seals, forms, protocols, other electoral documentation; to provide for an increase in the protection of the commission at their location and electoral documentation when transporting it. In view of the situation in the Donetsk and Lugansk areas, the aim is to provide independent training and elections for Ukrainian national deputies in one-maned districts.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m0.u101	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m0.u102	I propose that the CEC be given the right to review and modify the boundaries and centres of one-mandatory districts in these areas, as proposed by the governors. The bill received a positive conclusion from the Chief Research Administration and was discussed today at a meeting of the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government. Taking into account that the electoral process of successive parliamentary elections has already begun, the members of the committee have proposed to supplement the bill with the positions proposed: to specify in the time-limits set by law for individual electoral procedures; to clarify the form of the electoral ballot for voting in a single-member district; to provide for the publication on the official CBC site in the full range of intermediate and final financial reports on the coming and use of the funds of the electoral funds of political parties and candidates. The proposed changes were supported by the committee and the members of the CLTC who were invited to the meetings. These changes will save an additional 100 million dollars of budget spending in these elections. The committee concluded: recommending the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a result of the first reading of the draft bill as a basis and as a whole. Given the above, the additions given to you in the form of a comparative table are all given to you, if Parliamentarians recognize the importance of the immediate adoption of the bill during the electoral process and it will be accepted as a whole, we suggest that you assign a committee to prepare it for the signing of the Supreme Council, to carry out technical and legal work with the Chief Legal Authority. Dear colleagues! Deputies! Please support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m0.u103	Thank you. Dear colleagues. Please sit down, David Vazievich. Please sign up for this. It's a simplified procedure. People's MP Mirny, Freedom faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m0.u104	Please pass the word to Oleg Tuggnibok.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m0.u105	Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m0.u106	Oleg Tajnibok, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Respectable Society! Once the ex-head of Parliament, the late Ivan Stepanovich Plush said that everything could be resolved here in Parliament, Parliament decided everything. And so today in this extreme situation where the Ukrainian state and Ukrainian society are in, I think Parliament can take responsibility, and if there is a feeling, and there is a feeling that there are 226 votes in this room right now to change completely criminal, The 50/50 majority-proportional election system, which, I want to remind you, was formed under Yanukovic and his regime for that. In order for the majority districts to have a controlled parliament, we in the Supreme Council of Ukraine must do so. And the faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union insists that we vote in favour of the change in the electoral system and that this Parliament, by this very Parliament, go to the history of voting for a proportional system for open lists, what the field requires today is what Ukrainian society requires. Now we need to give proper instructions to the Central Electoral Commission so that they can stop the registration of majors so that there can be no lawsuits or misunderstandings. And of course, the Freedom faction supports these initiatives that have been brought to the head of the committee today. And we vote separately for each of them, but in general we will not vote for this bill, for these changes, because this will demonstrate that we support a mixed majority base of bandits.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m0.u107	Please, National Deputy Zharavsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m0.u108	Dear Alexander Valentinovich, dear colleagues! I can tell you from the experience of the world, even in African countries, when the election campaign is announced, the Election Act does not change, even in non-democratic, totalitarian states. Today the electoral process began. Those bills that were put to the vote, basically the majority system, basically a proportional system with closed lists, with open ballots -- they didn't find the support of the people's advocates. These questions were repeatedly asked. Our task is to make the elections that have been announced, they have been recognized in the world, they have been legitimate, and the new parliament has been legitimate. That's the position of our group. So any change in this process, except chaos, doesn't give you anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m0.u109	Please, National Deputy Odarchenko, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m0.u110	Dear colleagues, we all remember how Janukovic first criminally broke the Constitution, then in the same criminal way, using the support of "cushrooms", broke the electoral legislation, using the 50-50 system that he was comfortable with to have a certain majority in the Supreme Council Hall. We now see in all the streets of the board run where Poshenko writes "live in a new way," but today in Parliament we don't feel this "life in a new way" because we use the same methods that Janukovic used. Today, President Prašenko considers it appropriate to have a system that will allow him to concentrate all power in his hands. I want to remind all people that we already had this in history in Ukraine when one person had power, namely in Yanukovich. We all know how it ended. Alexander Valentinovich, I want to remind you of such a detail. In Herson’s grip on the 18th, the head of ODA was released. Despite the fact that this is a border area and it is the Territorial Defence Act, President Poshenko is looking for the head of headquarters, Peter Poshenko, who is criminally not assigning the head of ODA, regardless of the fact that there are gunfires on the border, there is social tension inside the city. From this rostrum, I'm absolutely officially calling for Dusty to be brought to justice today as President of Ukraine. And the lawsuit will state that he is not criminally implementing the Laws on Territorial Defence, not assigning the head of ODA to the border area. There is no need for the interests of the elections to be replaced by the territorial interests of Ukraine. You don't have to put the heads of the ODA on those people who do.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m0.u111	Please, dear colleagues, those who have signed up have been given the opportunity. Now in a minute, I can give it away from the factions. Please, Kaplin, hit.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m0.u112	Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians! Well, first of all, our political power, Vitalia Calla, supports these changes, this bill. Secondly, we continue to speak and demand that the Supreme Council of Ukraine vote on such changes to effective electoral legislation. And the Ukrainian dream came true, they got a new electoral system when the next Supreme Council of Ukraine was formed solely on a proportional basis with open lists. So there's no more cats in the bag so people can identify themselves both for the party and for the person they trust. And thirdly, we must now ensure that we can vote on these legislative changes. The head of the Supreme Council has to do everything to cover the rat underground crossings and the deputies who voted on the new system here or did not vote, go out in front of hundreds of thousands of people and say why they did it or did not. And third, last. Let's stop this so-called "arseniad" in the government when we have ministers begging when they jump.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m0.u113	Please, we're done here, yes. Thank you. Miroshnichenko, National Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m0.u114	Dear colleagues, first of all, I would like to address the opposition representatives and the non-factional deputies. The point is that we really wanted to pass the Law with you on elections to the Supreme Council for open regional lists. It didn't work out. And today the question is whether we can ensure fair and transparent choices that would be recognized by our citizens and the whole world. This bill allows us to organize elections in such a way that we minimize the risks associated with the situation in the country. Our group of non-fractional deputies will support this bill. I call on all of our colleagues, first of all, to stress once again, from opposition and non-fractional to give us fair, transparent, democratic rules for the organization of elections to the Supreme Council. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m0.u115	Thank you. National MP Rudzkowski. Then there's Zarubinsky. And we're risking it. One minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m0.u116	Dear colleagues, I don't think we should be guilty of not passing the law with open lists. Neither the President is to blame nor the Prime Minister nor the Speaker of Parliament, we are all to blame with you for not changing legislation before the electoral process begins. I passed Law 4906-1 three months ago, prepared with the Venice Commission, which allowed Parliament to choose open regional lists, to lower the electoral barrier so that new political forces could enter Parliament and not stand under Parliament, not storm, but to enter Parliament and participate in political debate. I propose to support the changes that are being proposed, and they will allow us to organize an electoral process, including at Donbassa. But, David Vajajevic, we need to lower the barrier so that new democratic forces can enter.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m0.u117	Please, the Zarubinsky People's Deputy. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m0.u118	Dear colleagues, every electoral system has its own benefits and there are downsides, you know that very well, and much depends on, more precisely, how it's implemented is being implemented. But, you know what I'm up against? Against what he called Orwell in his 1984 novel "innooise," that's an interesting language when it comes to one thing and another. I've got the bills registered. Dear ones, what open lists? But it says "open lists." Dear journalists, these are closed lists entirely. The open list is when, silently, the credibility of becoming a member of the Supreme Council depends on how it was voted, and this hierarchy is built from it. And closed lists when the convention determines this period. Also, there are closed lists when after the election, the assembly can take and change its, Russian, attitude. So let us speak the truth: either open lists or closed lists. We're offered a completely closed party system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m0.u119	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that we are now talking about Law 4531a amending some of the laws of Ukraine regarding the provision of proper organization and the conduct of the election of national deputies. This law not only allows you to remove some contradictions and simplify, and to ensure transparency of elections, but also gives you a substantial budget economy. And from this angle, I would like to look at this proposal and support this project 4531a. Ladies and gentlemen, please decide on your acceptance. David Vajaevich, what offer, first or foremost? In general. The proposal is based on a total of 4531a. Vote please, Your Honor. [[12:03:35]] For 134 For 134 votes, no decision is taken. The factions, please. 32 – "Paternity", "regions" – 0, "BOLLOW" – 29, "Economic development" – 16, "MSP" – 0, "Sovereign European Ukraine" – 26, "Freedom" – 0, non-fractional – 31. Dear colleagues, there's a 30-minute recess. We'll continue our work at 12 o'clock, 35 minutes. I ask all the leaders of the MPs and factions to the Cabinet of the Supreme Council, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m0.u120	Please take your seats. Please announce the Secretary of the Supreme Council three times in the towers of the Supreme Council regarding the invitation of all national deputies to the session hall. We are with you, dear colleagues, to accept very important questions, and I would ask that we have the opportunity to work with dignity. Please make an announcement. I'm talking to the leaders of MP groups and factions, especially when I see that Fatherland is probably running a meeting somewhere. Please invite the national MPs. Colleagues, invite the national deputies to the session room. Colleagues, now the laws will go and it will be very embarrassing when the faction shows, any faction will show a low result. In particular, the Law on Social Protection, which is awarded by the Order of the Heavenly 100th, the Heroes of the Heavenly 100th. I'm asking colleagues, let's go to the hall, organize Parliament's work. I inform you, honourable national deputies, that at the meeting of the leaders of the parliamentary groups and factions, we discussed the situation around the work plan, the calendar plan for the work of the Supreme Council. And they came up with an agreed decision to try and vote again on the proposal to reduce the number of sessional working days of the Supreme Council. At the same time, an offer was made to hold this Thursday a closed meeting of the Supreme Council, with the participation of the leaders of the force bloc, the Cabinet of Ministers, the National Bank, to discuss the issue of Ukraine's protection, the issue of defence, the strengthening of our country's security and energy security. All these questions need immediate solutions, including decisions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So, dear colleagues, I ask you once again to sit in my workplace. We also discussed the question of going back to a project that you and I couldn't vote on before the break. It is about a draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine to ensure proper organization and the conduct of national elections. Dear colleagues, I very much ask that now the MPs and the factions, as well as the non-fractional MPs, be determined to return to this issue so that we can, in any case, try to vote it if not in general, on the first reading. And I'd like to ask, David Vajaevich. David Vajajevic, one minute, please, regarding the return to Law 4531.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m0.u121	Dear colleagues, distinguished national MPs! I want to remind you once again of the importance of this bill. This bill will first save money from the budget. And once again, I'm saying that we're going to save about $240-280 million. The money in this election. Secondly, we provide maximum security for members of the DVC, CBC. For the KLA to hold elections in areas where there is unrest today, the Lugansk Region, the Donetsk Region, is meant. And if such territories are to arise in the course of the elections. Secondly, there was going to be a conversion of the districts into the Donetsk region, the Luhansk region, that's not true. It will only take district commissions to where there will be peace, where there will be an opportunity to conduct all the procedures for the division of districts in these areas, not to worry about the deputies elected in these districts in the Donetsk and Lugansk areas.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m0.u122	Let me finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m0.u123	So, dear colleagues, this law is completely technical, which ensures the security and the economy of money. The security of people and the economy of money. So I'm addressing you again, and it has nothing to do with the electoral system. I mean, if there's any change in some political party that wants to make electoral legislation, it's a different matter. This bill allows elections to be held in the process that has already begun. Today, some 80 candidates have already been applied to the Central Election Commission, and some 20 candidates have been registered, so the process has already been completed. And today I think that the statements that we're changing some electoral system is just naked populism for the time being. Please, Your Honor, address this issue with responsibility and vote in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m0.u124	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'd like to ask the Supreme Council to decide immediately on the return to the issue of registration number 4531. I would like to remind you that this is a bill amending some of Ukraine's laws to ensure proper organization and conduct elections for Ukrainian national deputies. Please, Your Honor, support the return to this issue. Please vote. [[13:04:29]] For-152. The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Parenthood – 26, Party of Regions – 0, Impact – 33, Economic Development – 18, SMS – 0, Sovereign European Ukraine – 20, Freedom – 33, non-fractional – 22. Dear colleagues, we have another issue with you regarding the financing of the electoral process. This is a draft Act amending Appendix No. 3 to the State Budget Act for the current year (to increase the expenditure of the Central Electoral Commission for the election of the National Deputies in 2014). Registration number 4464a, I think. I'd like to ask, honourable colleagues, that in any case we have to fund the elections. Of course, this law took into account the adoption of the previous law, but in this case it is still better than the 600 million that Kabmin is offering than having any financial resources to carry out. I would like to ask Alexander Vitaliyovich Schlapak, Minister of Finance, please inform the people's deputies on the content of this law briefly from the parliamentary rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m0.u125	Dear Alexander Valentinovich! Dear National Deputies! In fact, the Head of the Supreme Council has reported on the substance of the bill that I intend to present to you. These are changes to Appendix 3 of the Ukrainian State Budget Act 2014 and these changes should provide funding for the conduct of the election of members of the people. As for the sum. Our figure is 604 million dollars, but I have to admit that we prepared this amount along with those bills that proposed amendments to electoral legislation and then proposed a reduction in the funds for the election of national MPs, because we really want to save money. Sadly, none of the bills, many of which proposed such changes, and here was the last one that had just been proposed by the distinguished David Važajevich, to pass. And that's why we have to talk about the total amount of funding for this election, and according to the Central Electoral Commission's application, it's 986 million 700,000 dollars. Considering that there are some 23 million left in the previous election accounts, we are forced to talk about the amount of 964 million dollars. It's about the source. The only source of extra-operable election funding could be the Cabinet of Ministers, just the "State Capital Expenditure" tape distributed by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. So the final offer that we're making to you is to fund an amount of 963 million 900,000 dollars at the expense of government capital expenditure in addition to the election of Ukraine's national deputies. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m0.u126	Thank you. Dear colleagues, there is no summary of the question. Alexander Vitaliyovich, let's have Mikola Rudzkowski ask one question. Do you mind? Please ask one question.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m0.u127	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, I understand that we need to make a decision on the financing of the electoral process. But I am addressing you. For three months now, the city of Primika has not paid the salaries of an educated person or paid to medical professionals. In Kozelka, Bobrovitsa does not have any more money to pay. And so in many areas. I'm asking you, along with these budget changes, let's make some changes so that people can go through the electoral process and get paid on time. Because the government has already passed a bill that introduces indexation if they don't pay municipal tariffs on time. I have a question: how can you pay municipal tariffs on time if you have an early wage, and it's not budgeted for how people live until the new year. Tell them we'll make the changes on Thursday and then we'll vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m0.u128	Dear Mr. Mikola, first of all, I'd like to inform the Supreme Council that there is no three-month debt in the Trails. [[B in m in s a l in]] I say again, for today, yes, many budgets do not have enough money for the last month of the year. We're gathering this information right now and we're going to inform the Supreme Council and we're going to consult you on how to live to the end of the year. As for the proposals I have made, they come out of decisions made in accordance with the Ukrainian Constitution. The next election is announced, they should start funding yesterday. The decision to finance is in your hands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m0.u129	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I do not see the National Deputy Gjellier (sit down, Alexander Vitaliyovich), head of the Committee on Budgets. Please, who's from the Budget Committee? Please come to the rostrum. Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m0.u130	Pavlov’s national deputy. Dear Alexander Valentinovich, distinguished national deputies and invited, the Committee on Budget Affairs has not yet considered Government Bill No. 4464a. As a result of the preliminary draft of the bill, I would like to point out that the bill proposes the expenditure of the CLTC for the election of the National Deputies to increase by 604 million and to reduce the cost of Minfin for the state capital expenditure allocated by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. That is, implementation of the bill will not require additional expenditure on the state budget, as it provides for a redistribution of expenditure between the chief budget administrators without changing the total amount of expenditure. So the bill is balanced. The main scientific and expert office has pointed out that the bill can be adopted on a basis. But I would like to point out, with the Minister's remarks, that if a draft decision were to be taken to clarify the amount of government budget spending for the election of the national deputies on 26 October as a result of changes to electoral legislation and according to the calculation of the CEC, the bill would require adjustment of budgetary indicators. The relevant changes should be made to the draft appendix to clarify the amount of expenditure to be spent on the election of national deputies and the reduction in the same amount of the source of compensatory additional expenditure, as well as on the summary figures for the expenditure of the CTC and the Minfin. Under such conditions and if the draft draft is adopted, the Committee on Budget Issues, together with the Chief Legal Authority of the Authority, should provide the necessary technical and legal clarifications of the indicators in the appendix to the bill, with a view to clarifying the scope of the funds for the election of Ukraine's national deputies. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m0.u131	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss matters, desires? You don't have to? There are no wanters. Please, Your Honor, sit on your posts and support Project 4464a, taking into account the positions announced by Finance Minister Alexander Vitaliyovich Schlapak of Ukraine. Please, Your Honor, vote. That's what I understand, Alexander Vitaliyovich, on the basis and in general, is that the offer? Yes. Please, on the basis of this, and in general, please vote. [[13:12:42]] For 184 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Parenthood – 46, Party of Regions – 0, Impact – 35, Economic Development – 20, SMS – 0, Sovereign European Ukraine – 24, Freedom – 34, non-fractional – 25. Dear colleagues, I understand we're going to have more. Then there'll be lines. There will be, I predict, a return to this issue with the Supreme Council's readiness to make this decision. Perhaps this will be after a closed session of Parliament. Dear colleagues, the next very important question, and we are about to move on to a calendar plan that we need to change. This is Project 4662. I'd like to hear all the deputies' names very carefully. The draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning social protection for persons who are awarded the Order of the Heroes of the Celestial 100. Please report to President Ruslan Petrovich of Ukraine. Ruslan Petrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m0.u132	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! Just recently, you and I have decided that we have introduced a new kind of reward, the Order of the Heroes of Heaven. At the same time, your view is proposed by the draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine regarding the social protection of persons who are rewarded by the Order of the Heroes of the Celestial 100. The project was designed to provide social protection for individuals who, during the Dignity Revolution and other events related to the protection of independence, sovereignty, and territorial integrity of Ukraine, showed special civil courage and patriotism and were awarded the Order of the Hero of Heaven. In particular, the bill is proposed. First. To complement the list of individuals who have special rights before the Fatherland, persons who are rewarded by the Order of the Hero of Heaven. The other one. Provide appropriate benefits to the persons involved. Next. Retirement for special merit before Ukraine. The adoption of this law will result in the establishment and provision of social protection for those who have been rewarded by the Order of the Hero of the Heavenly 100 at a level that is truly in line with their merits. Therefore, honourable colleagues, bearing in mind that this bill, introduced by the President and defined as urgent, please, if possible today, consider this issue and adopt this law in the first reading and in general, so that immediate action can be taken, as determined by this bill, in relation to those persons who have already been rewarded by the Order of the Heavenly Hero. Thank you very much. I'd like you to support me as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m0.u133	Please give a brief report to the committee head on the matters of pensioners, veterans, invalids, Suškevitch Valeri Mihajlovich. Out of place, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m0.u134	Thank you, Alexander Valentinovich. National Deputy Suškević, Head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans, Disabled Persons, Fatherland faction. Dear colleagues, as noted earlier, have shown special public courage, extraordinary courage, patriotism, and self - respect to the Ukrainian people, and they are and will be examples of us. They were upholding the constitutional principles of democracy, human rights and freedom, active humanitarian and social activities, and rewarded today by a new order, the Order of the Heroes of the Celestial 100th. And so the identification of the reward of a person who has been able to protect the Ukrainian state today is the proposals of those who today are heroes of the Celestial 100th and the people who have defended the Ukrainian State have the appropriate benefits that relate to such people who have the status of a hero of Ukraine and others who have the status of "special merit to the Fatherland." These individuals are also given the right to a 35 - percent or up to 40 - percent minimum pension for those who have lost their jobs, in addition to the preferences that are provided for by valid legislation that will be provided today, in line with the award of the Order. My friends, I'm saying it's not that big of a deal and support is about 332 dollars to 380 dollars to get our heroes. I want to say that the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority supports the bill and believes that it can be accepted in the first reading and it can be accepted.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m0.u135	On the basis and in general. Yeah? That's a proposition. Please let the head of the committee finish the presentation.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m0.u136	Unfortunately, it happened that the committee was unable to consider this bill, which was only registered on August 29th. But as chairman of the committee, I express my personal opinion and some of the members of the committee with whom I have spoken, who support that this bill should be urgently accepted as a basis and as a whole. Because it's about giving people, these people, our heroes adequate social assistance and support. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m0.u137	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this issue? There's a need. Please sign in. The Martínk People's Deputy, Freedom faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m0.u138	Please pass the word to Edward Leon.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m0.u139	Please turn on Edward Leon's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m0.u140	The All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, Edward Leonov, Crimea, Sevastopol. As we consider this bill, we should bear in mind that recent changes have taken place in Ukraine, generally in the sense of a society of heroism, in the sense of a society of conquests. And those people who are particularly prominent in Maidan, defending Ukraine's independence and Ukraine's freedom. Those who are now fighting in Donbas in the East, defending Ukraine and its independence must certainly be likened to those people who have so far had the national awards of the Hero of Ukraine or other rewards that bring benefits. Because Ukraine is writing its new story now. Ukrainian heroes are now writing with their blood the history of Ukraine, and of course we have no right to forget that those young people who do not feel sorry for their lives right now, those young people who do not regret their health for Ukraine’s independence should be marked on a national level. The All-Ukrainian Union of Freedom, as well as the political power that has been on the brink of events, feel the need and insist that the State honorably celebrate the young Heroes of Ukraine, not only those who have served the State in the distant past, but also those young people who are now fighting on the fronts and who have given their lives on the Maidan and who have given their health and strength. This bill speaks only of social justice, of young heroes being respected in the same way as older heroes. That's why we're going to support this bill and we're going to urge everyone to vote on the basis and in general now in the session room. The glory of Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m0.u141	People's MP Packaan, impact faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m0.u142	Please pass the word to Paul Rosenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m0.u143	Please turn on Paul Rosenko’s microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m0.u144	Paul Rosenco, Vitaly Caller's Faction. And indeed, we have a very difficult situation in the country right now -- the situation where we have to -- is our civic duty as all of Ukraine's national deputies, to think and make concrete decisions about strengthening social protection, social protection primarily for those involved in fighting, those guys who are currently in the ATO area, those boys who have died in families. The families of those boys who died on the field who received the recognition from the state, indeed, who contributed significantly to the victory of Ukraine and to today's victory and to the future victory. But it is surprising that in this situation, when we have to spend money, including on strengthening social protection, part of, let's say, the Supreme Council of Ukraine doesn't want to save money on basic things. I'm commenting on just a preliminary vote, when today's electoral campaign in Ukraine will cost about one billion dollars that are practically gone in the country today, a bill is being tabled to cut at least twice the funding, to make changes to electoral legislation, to make the electoral system more transparent, to cut the cost of elections in Ukraine. And part of the hall is the former Communist faction and the former regions cannot vote for it. There's a billion dollars to be thrown out for the next election. Or do you think that's how you block the election? You can't wait, Your Honor! The election will take place. This Supreme Council of Ukraine should.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m0.u145	Let me finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m0.u146	This Supreme Council of Ukraine should retire politically. And most of those, the absolute majority of the regions and the communists will go to that pension, the people will drive them out. So don't think you can wait and block the election process here in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. There will be an election. But our job is to cut election spending and transfer this funding, in fact, to the social protection of military personnel, ATO participants, and other heroic guys.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m0.u147	Please, National Deputy Ilik, Fatherland faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m0.u148	Roman Ilik, 121 constituency, Drodobic. Dear Mr. Head, fellow MPs! I'll remind you that this is already, thank God, the third bill that we're looking at in the walls of the Supreme Council, which is about honoring the heroes of Maidan. And it's about a very simple question -- the social welfare of the families of those people who have become disabled who have no arms, no legs, no eyes. I think that a moral obligation should be sufficient for all to give due both to those who have suffered and to their families. I think you need less words at all, more noble things. Don't worry about the election money: more is spent, less is spent. We need to talk about other things today, such as the difficult conditions in which these people find themselves today, to survive in Ukraine at all. So I propose not to discuss this issue at all, nor to discuss it at all, but to do, indeed, good and noble things. The Fatherland faction will support this bill and urge all colleagues in the session room to vote in favour of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m0.u149	Bezbach National Deputy, Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m0.u150	Please pass the word to Herman Hanni Mikolayivna.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m0.u151	Dear friends! Social protection must be given to all victims in this war. And we can't share people here. Yesterday was September 1st. 800 children of Donbas will never hear a school bell again because they died in this war. We can't protect them anymore. I ask the Supreme Council for a moment of silence to honor the memory of the lost children of Donbas.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m0.u152	Dear colleagues! One minute, Zarubinsky People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m0.u153	Thank you. Thank you, Alexander Valentinovich. Dear colleagues, when there is a question of social protection in the bill's title, the more social protection of people who are no longer left with families, I think that the issue of support is simply a question of how people are treated, how human dignity is treated. But I'm talking about something else. I'd like to advise my colleagues here. They have already issued verdicts — who went into nonexistence, who did not go into existence. Dear colleagues, now in Ukraine, such a financial, economic, energy-related, defence issue that so many people who today talk about the non-existence of others will probably go into oblivion, too. So I think we need to be more tolerant of our colleagues, rather than giving labels, verdicts, and so forth. Once again, history will tell you everything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m0.u154	Thank you. People's MP Opanaschenko. While he's speaking, I'm asking the secretariat to make an announcement so that all the national deputies can come into the session room. All of them. This is a responsible question for the Supreme Council. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m0.u155	And what's happening is that our soldiers defend and perform the tasks of the state and die, and I think it's an important bill and their families should be given social protection, and it's a very useful bill. But this should be a lesson for all of us. The radicalism that is now in Parliament, the setting up of some deputies for others, does it have a peaceful way out? Do we unite society in such activities? So I ask the MPs not to raise those topics that split society, and at such a difficult time, we need to demonstrate the policy of unity, the policy of peace, and not to continue these radical attacks on each other, and to suggest that we do it all over the country. This is the way to nowhere, we need to unite and demonstrate unity in at least the last days of the work of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m0.u156	I see. Dear colleagues, I ask you to prepare for the vote, please take your seats. Please, Your Honor, support the draft law amending some of the Ukrainian laws on social protection of persons who are rewarded by the Order of the Heroes of the Heavens, as a rule this order is given to posthumously respected colleagues. I ask the honourable national deputies to support the adoption of the bill 4562a as a whole. All right, everybody, let's take a vote. [[13:29:29]] For 221 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. 68 – "Paternality", regions – 7, 36 – "CHAPTER", 21 – "Economic development", 1 – "For Peace and Stability", "Sovereign European Ukraine" – 27, 35 – "Freedom", 26 – non-fractional. Please, National Deputy Zharavsky. I'm asking you again to announce everyone to the hall. Colleagues all went into the hall and voted.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m0.u157	Dear colleagues! I call on those people who are now interviewing in the watchtowers and who drink coffee, tea, and coffee in the buffet. Please go to the hall and support this important bill. Just by conscience, for the sake of the Lord God and those who died. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m0.u158	Please, dear fellows. I see the other deputies are in the hall. Please come back to that question. Colleagues, let's all vote together. This is about the heroes who died for the freedom of Ukraine. Please, I beg your pardon. [[13:30:39]] For 243 Decision taken. We can if we want. Please, Your Honor, on the basis of and in general vote on this law. [[13:30:58]] For 240 Decision taken. Thank you. The factions, please. 70 - "Paternal Development", 12 - 37 - "Vitalia Klitska UDA", 26 - "Economic Development", 1 - "Sovereign European Ukraine" - 27.35 - "Freedom", non-fractional - 32. Dear colleagues, right now I'm asking you to stay put. We must accept a very important question. At the meeting, on the Conciliation Council, more faithfully, we agreed to return to our calendar plan for the work of the Supreme Council. It's about being colleagues, attention! – the point is that, given the situation, we reduce to one day our sessional weeks, increasing the number of work on both committees and factions. On the other hand, there was a proposal made during the factions of the morning, supported by MP groups and factions during the meeting, on Thursday, this Thursday, in a closed session, inviting leaders of the power structures and departments, the management of the Cabinet of Ministers, the economic, energy block. And it's very serious, frankly, not on camera, not on the piano, to talk about that dangerous situation in the country about protecting our country, about solving immediate priority issues. Dear colleagues, that was the offer. And ask for support for changes to the calendar schedule for the fifth session, given that we are holding a closed session this Thursday. Please, Your Honor, support the changes to the calendar. Please vote. [[13:33:07]] For 262 Decision taken, thank you. The factions. 48 – "Paternity", regions – 46, 33 – "SUSTABILITY", "Economic development" – 30, 27 – USM, "Several European Ukraine" – 27, "Freedom" – 1, "non-factional" – 50. Dear colleagues, we're going back to another issue that we haven't been able to vote on, that's a personnel question. Remember, this is about the Minister of Economic Development's statement and Mr. Sheremet's trade, and she asked the strike faction to invite him to the hall so that he could be heard, the reason for the application. I assigned the secretariat, I was informed by the head of the secretariat that Mr. Sheremet, after writing the application, went on his own vacation and was not in the workplace. That is why, honourable colleagues, we have the right to make decisions for the absence of a minister who has written a declaration of resignation. Please, Your Honor, support the issue of the release of Sheremet Paul Mikhailovich from office as Minister of Economic Development and Trade in connection with the application for resignation. Please, Your Honor, vote. Please be supportive. [[13:34:37]] For 252 Decision taken, thank you. Dear colleagues, the next question is also important to our country. Note that we do not have in our day - to - day routine any issues that are not really important today. This is a draft Act amending some legislative acts to counter the information aggression of foreign states (project number 4263a). National Deputy Tomenko Mikola Volodymyrovich please report the draft Law.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m0.u159	Dear colleagues, these are the legislative initiatives of a group of national MPs in the composition of Elena Condratuk, Mikli Tomenko, Vitaly Krutium, Galina Black, Mikola Bagraev, who, together with experts at the National Council of Media Media, worked on the mechanism, both expeditiously and professionally and within the framework of current legislation, to counter the information aggression of foreign states. Today, the National Council on Television and Radio is working in all kinds of ways in the part that you know, it's deciding to temporarily shut down Russian channels when we have the facts of international hostility, promoting war, aggression, and so on. Today's decision has already been made with regard to 11 channels. Instead, the procedure itself is the good will of the courts, the active position of the Nacrad or, say, the BIS or other institutions. We write a clear procedure, not good will, but what should be the terms in which all of this is considered. We are not going beyond the scope of non-conviction, because I think we should stick to the lines of European practice, but we should deal with it quickly enough. So if it's necessary, the B.B.I. is going to Nacrada, the Nacrad during the period. The court has been reviewing this issue for three days, bringing a temporary restraining order to court, and the court has been considering this issue for three days. So, in fact, we're in weekly decision-making mode. The temporary shutdown procedure, we suggest that it be fixed for six months because we hope that both on the information space and on the military front we will win and then we will work in a civilized European regime. Alexander Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m0.u160	Let me finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m0.u161	request from the community, because these standards have been analyzed and repeatedly discussed on various round tables when there is good will, and I think it should be today to protect our information security, to vote in the first and in general and with one small detail that experts have proposed: instead of the words "teleradio programme," to write "audiovisual production" instead of "teleradio programme" is "audiovisual production." And in this way, in the first and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m0.u162	Thank you. Please report to the Committee on the Rule of Law and Justice, Jemetz Leonid Alexandrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m0.u163	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Jemetz Leonid, 221st constituency, Fatherland faction. Thus, the Supreme Council Committee on the Rule of Law and Justice discussed at its meeting on 23 July of this year the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts to counter the information aggression of foreign nations, submitted by the national deputies of Tomenko and others accordingly. I would like to point out that the Constitution, in article 34, part three, defines that the exercise of the rights provided for in articles 1 and 2 of this article, namely the right to freedom of thought and speech, the right to express their views and beliefs freely, the right to preserve, use and disseminate information orally, in writing or otherwise, may be restricted by law in the interests of national security, territorial integrity or public order. Thus, the bill does not contradict any position of the Constitution regarding freedom of expression. But there is a point made by the Chief Executive of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the part that the bill does not specify which administrative court will decide whether it will be a local court or whether it will be an appeal court, or perhaps it will be a higher administrative court of Ukraine at all. There are also a number of other observations that are pointed to by scientific and expert authorities and recommend that the bill be returned to the subject of the legislative initiative. Taking into account these and other observations and legal positions, the Supreme Council Committee on Justice has decided that the bill can be adopted, but on the basis of further work on those observations that have been taken into account by both the Scientific and Expert Office and the National Observations.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m0.u164	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m0.u165	So this bill is suggested by the committee as a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m0.u166	I mean, on the first reading, I understand?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m0.u167	First reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m0.u168	I see. Thank you. Have a seat. Dear colleagues, you don't have to raise your hand, sign up for the performance, two for the show, two for the opposite. Please. National Deputy Odarchenko, Fatherland. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m0.u169	Please pass the word to Vladimir Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m0.u170	Please turn on Vladimir Yavorowski’s microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m0.u171	Vladimir Yavorowski, Trinity, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, of course, a bill recently introduced to the Supreme Council would obviously be considered an absolute savagery and a return to the cave age to ban something. But today in Ukraine the situation is such that the bill is archival and needs to be adopted. There's been a situation where, in fact, our media to Russia, first of all, not everyone's gaining, but secondly, they're not broadcasting, and they're not allowing us to enter Russian information space. Instead, of course, Russia occupied our space today. Now it's constantly spinning in their media, that Putin tells us that for a half-week or two, he could be in Kiev by now. We know these streams of terrible lies that have caused so much trouble, and they have, of course, a lot of radio audiences, television sets in Donetskin and Luhansk. Of course, it seems to me, in this law, that there is a reasonable norm that no one can include with such a proposal to ban one or the other, let's say there's Russian, the first thing about this is the channel that this submission is going to be made by the Supervisory Board, our National Council on Radio and Television and only it. So it's going to be done by professionals, obviously it's going to be clearly called one channel or another. And more specifically, we need to not be afraid or forbid just, let's say, individual broadcasts, but simply not allow the worst, most fascist ones into our information space, so to speak, the channels that are operating in Russia today.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m0.u172	Please, People's Deputy Lopeczak, Freedom faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m0.u173	Please pass the word to Galina Black.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m0.u174	Turn on the Black Galina microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m0.u175	The Black Galina, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Respectable Society! It is quite obvious that there are two wars in Ukraine today and there are two fronts. The first front is a front with arms and a second front -- that's the information war that's going on, especially in occupied areas and not only in occupied territories, but also in Ukraine as a whole. It is quite obvious that these television channels, Russian television channels that are still being retranslated in Ukraine today, are increasing the level of lying, the degree of manipulation to mislead the population of our territory in order to mislead the population of Ukraine. By now all Russian progressive journalists are saying that Russian television channels are beyond manipulation. And so far, we've gone from Gebels to another Nazi propagandist, Julius Schneider, who's known not only to be manipulating information, but also to misrepresenting it. Recently, I was able to visit the Russian-Ukrainian border in the Lugansk region with my brothers. And I learned that these Russian TV channels are very well retranslated in their own territory. And the vast majority of people who live on the Russian-Ukrainian border are, in particular. They don't watch Ukrainian television channels because they don't have access to them, but they watch TV channels, actually, in Russian. It's a huge disaster, and this bill is very useful because it actually expands the mandate of the National Council for Television and Broadcasting and clearly sets out the mechanism that will allow it.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m0.u176	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m0.u177	and actually lets write out clearly the mechanism that will allow the citizens of Ukraine to be protected from Russian television channels and that will simplify this procedure – a procedure to limit the retransmission of Russian television channels, the most fearsome television channels that are now actually informational weapons in Ukraine. Thank you for your attention. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m0.u178	People's Deputy Fries, Strike.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m0.u179	Mr. Head, please pass the word to Irina Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m0.u180	Please turn on Irina Heratchenko's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m0.u181	Dear colleagues, the strike faction supports the head of the profile committee and suggests that we adopt this bill today in both the first reading and the whole. And if other colleagues have comments, it's possible to make changes, because for all those who communicate with our military, with the displaced, with the people who have stayed in the ATO zone, it's very obvious that the war declared by Russia to Ukraine has terrible consequences, first of all, in the information space. But unfortunately, whatever laws we don't adopt, and this law needs to be adopted today, so that any so-called Russian television channels that have actually turned into propaganda tanks that are actually boring and killing our people's information. But I don't know how to stop that information war that's going on in this session room. When the ladies here at Chanel continue to speculate on the deaths of Ukrainian children, they need to be asked, Alexander Valentine's Day, to call the names of these children's killers and talk about Russian tanks sending Putin here to shoot Ukrainian children. It's about Lutugino in the hospital that there are still unexported Ukrainian citizens who were affected by the Towns when they came out with a humanitarian column. It's about scary pictures today that are afraid to show our journalists with children with amputated limbs in Lugansk and Donetsk after the bombings that the enemy aircraft is doing there, that's what we need to talk about. When a young lady crawls out on Russian television channels to embarrass the Ukrainian army that protects Ukrainian children, we need to talk about this too. And I especially want to go to the media. Now, you know what our soldiers, who just left Ilowaysk and came out of Lugansk, say, and on our bodies.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m0.u182	Let me finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m0.u183	And on our television channels do they realize there's a war going on? How can there be Russian shows about "mints", "banduks" and stuff. Every day there should be TV shows and stories about the heroic Ukrainian army that liberates Ukrainian children, who today have done everything to ensure that all schools in Slavyansk, Lysicánsk, North London, are opened up about our doctors who are pulling out our people, and this whole Russian filth is needed without sanctions, including simply not showing. This is a matter of information security and responsibility, including the owners of television channels, and it is time for them to hear here in the Supreme Council that they are shivering on our television channels.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m0.u184	People's deputy Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m0.u185	Dear Alexander Valentinovich. Honorable National MPs. The bill proposes to establish that the country of Ukraine is prohibited from broadcasting television and radio programs that call for violent change or the overthrow of Ukraine’s constitutional system, the resolution of aggressive war or conflict, the burning of hostility or hatred. In doing so, the Broadcasting and Television Board has the right to appeal to the court for a temporary ban on the retransmission of such programs. We believe that the project needs further development because the proposed ban on broadcasts in Ukraine on television or radio programs that call for a solution to an aggressive war or conflict may result, for example, in banning broadcasts from the countries of Europe and the United States that have supported the armed conflict in Iraq. Request to send a draft for further work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m0.u186	I got the offer. Dear colleagues, we have the next law in fact also regulates this issue. Well, from that point. Please give me one minute of the Zarubinsky People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m0.u187	Thank you very much, Alexander Valentinovich. Dear colleagues, the idea of this bill is understood, the author's idea is understandable, but the laws must be laws, not declarations. So the author has to follow legal technique in the law. I want to pay attention to this, it says here that sanctions can be applied when the real danger of territorial integrity of the state is created through distribution. Dear colleagues, there is a principle of legal certainty in jurisprudence. Who will determine the real danger or not? You understand that we incorporate in the law a completely evaluative judgment that depends on interpretation. Who? The subject is one or the other. Thus, the committee was properly proposed, and there are still many disadvantages, including, for example, the unforeseeable possibility of suing the court’s decision. There is a principle of administrative jurisdiction, however, that other laws cannot be destroyed by one law. That's why the committee was right that if you accept it, you have to deal with legislation from a legal point of view.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m0.u188	Thank you. National MP Miroshnichenko, please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m0.u189	Igor Miroshnichenko, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Alexander Valentine's Day, of course, I understand that the previous speaker is very well versed in the jurisprudence, and the one who spoke to him is very eager to protect the Ukrainian information space in paws. So he wants to try to talk about the topic that is extremely important today, and it's a matter of national security. We had already discussed these subjects when on February 23, I personally registered a decree prohibiting the broadcasting of Russian television channels. And then a lot of people said it wasn't in time that it was going to blow up the hostess. In summary, this has destroyed the entire East, which has been bogged down by Russian propaganda, and today we are forced to fight for the Ukrainian consciousness. So of course, legal nuances and comas or dots are very important, but the essence of this law, it's even more important. And I think he needs to be approved immediately, because we're already too late. We do everything very late, we have to do everything in time. This bill needs to be supported in general today. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m0.u190	Thank you. Please, Your Honor. Please, Mikola Volodymyrovich, one minute and we'll make a decision. Tomenko, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m0.u191	Dear colleagues, I don't want to offend anyone. Back in the old days, in the village, they said that not all the madmen were still at war. There's one thing we're talking about, and there's another thing I hear here. I want to tell you that this tolerant approach that we're proposing, we're keeping the court order on the issue. In Crimea, Russians are knocking on apartments on social media about Ukraine. And I didn't hear a single speech here to protect freedom of speech in Crimea and talk about Putin. We're saving, Nacrad's looking, we're handing it over to the court, the court is considering, the canal can sue. Well, what kind of democracy would you like to keep here, from shooting Russian canals at Ukrainian viewers? I demand, Alexander Valentine's Day, to consider this question, enough to play this legal equilibrist, we vote in the first and in general, because if we continue to play this.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m0.u192	Dear colleagues, I understand your offer. The only one, let's consult. A first - reading committee of Jehovah’s Witnesses offered a report. Let us first vote on the first reading. When there's support after that in general, I'll put it right to the vote. Please, Your Honor, decide on the support for the bill (registration number 4263a) to amend some of the Ukrainian legislative acts to counter the information aggression of foreign states, on the basis of this. Please, Your Honor, based on 4263a. Please vote. [[13:54:30]] For-195 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Parenthood – 63, Regions – 0.33 – Impact, 16 – Economic Development, USM – 0.22 – Sovereign European Ukraine, 35 – Freedom, non-fractional – 26. Dear colleagues, we have another format. The next law goes, which we can adopt, it actually regulates the same issues. And maybe then we'll include and support the standards that were in Tomenko Mikola Volodymyrovich's law. I would like to ask you briefly to inform us that a decision can be taken, 4297a is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Television and Broadcasting Act on the establishment of a temporary transmission and retransmission procedure in Ukraine for broadcasting programmes that do not fall within Ukraine's jurisdiction. Please, the People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m0.u193	Thank you. So what are we talking about? If you're monitoring our information space, you can see that the Ministry of Internal Affairs is now working with the National Council through court decisions, in fact, they're shutting down the channels in Ukraine that are calling for war and spreading international hostility. These processes are already under way. It is important for us in the legislative field to give the National Council rights to those who would not allow abuse of the situation in Ukraine. What exactly is my bill proposing? We specifically suggest that the National Council be allowed 30 days before the court's decision to suspend the language of television programmes that call for national hostility, to overthrow the constitutional system, to promote war and national intolerance, and so on. But these are not all television programs, but only those that come from countries that have not signed the European Convention on Transboundary Speech. This does not apply to Ukrainian channels. This is very important compared to the previous bill, because this bill protects Ukrainian channels. What happens after the National Council receives such a right? In fact, the National Council then has the right to appeal to the court so that the bill that we were to adopt might come into force and be able to act perfectly. This bill regulates the mechanism to restrict the retransmission of such programmes, including the possibility of requesting the regulatory authority of Ukraine under whose jurisdiction this programme falls. This bill is absolutely in line with the European Convention on Cross-border Speech. By adopting this bill, as I said before, we will, on the one hand, protect Ukrainian information space, on the other, allow the National Council to act effectively. And another thing is, British regulator Ofcom, just like the German, Polish regulator, like the Baltic regulators, has the right to suspend any programs that not only call for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m0.u194	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m0.u195	For example, social morality is harmful. I urge you to vote in favour of this bill as a whole, as a whole. He is fully supported by the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Media. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m0.u196	Please report to the committee on freedom of speech and information to Tomenko Mikoli Volodymirovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m0.u197	Dear colleagues, the committee also supports this bill because it is a mechanism similar to the previous mechanism that I have reported that allows for a rapid response to the information war against Ukraine. Of course, I think that those people who haven't communicated with people who have lived in the Russian television system for the last six months, obviously they weren't going to vote, or they think the Russian Peace of Putin. By the way, it's a unique thing. I've been reading and wondering lately. You see, Putin has already begun to say that Islam is very close to the Russian Orthodox ideology. Because they are fighting against the Ukrainians, they are also fighting against Christians. I do not remember in world history a situation such as that of Putin and Russian, the Donetskian, the Luganic terrorists. Chechens who demean Orthodoxy humiliate Christianity and kill Christians, and they thank Putina and Kadir for helping them "renew Donbass". And that's what Russian television shows our soldiers humiliated when they're having parades. And there are people here who are called the deputies of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and they say that, well, in Iraq, there's probably a bad situation. How much more information does it take to humiliate our country in order to vote for such channels not to exist in the Ukrainian state? I hope that if we're not able to do all of this here, during the elections, Ukrainian citizens will have to clean up those people who serve Putin for not one year, but they will have to serve Ukraine. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m0.u198	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we discussed the previous law. Is there a need to discuss this? In fact, this is a law that regulates the same issues, which provides a sufficiently effective mechanism for carrying out the tasks that lie ahead. So, dear colleagues, let us protect the information space from propaganda, hostile to Ukrainian society, from the information aggression imposed on us outside. Begging, fellow believers, to sit in your workplace. Please invite everyone. Please, come on, this is the last vote before the break. The draft Act amending the Ukrainian Television and Broadcasting Act (for the establishment of a procedure for temporary restrictions on broadcasting and retransmission in the territory of broadcasters that are not subject to Ukrainian jurisdiction) 4297a. What proposal, Mikola Volodymyrovich, is the committee based on and in general? As a basis and as a whole. Please, Your Honor, let's vote. Jaroslav, please. Please vote. [[14:01:09]] For-200 The decision is not taken. The factions. 68 – "Paternity", now, 0 – Regions, "BUS" – 35, 15 – "Economic development", "For Peace and Stability" – 0, "Sovereign European Ukraine" – 21.35 – "Freedom", non-fractional – 26. Dear colleagues, I see, many hands support the adoption of this law. Why don't we go back after the break? Yeah, after the break. Colleagues, there are no votes now. Colleagues, I'm the only one who'll keep you informed about the break announcement. Bill 4245, so that we do not waste time, is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Code of Taxation (for taxation of charity). We talked about the law tomorrow. In fact, for the second reading, the amended Law on the Tax Code (for some matters of charity taxation) has been prepared. We're going to be looking at it in the second reading today, this is Law 4455. He's completely actually settling these issues. So the request that we record and take into account this when voting in the second reading for Project 4455a. And now there's a break until 4:00. Please, colleagues, don't be late, there's still a lot of decisions to be made. Dear colleagues! My only appeal is to the committee headed by national deputy Zvania David Vážajevich. I was approached by the authors of the Illustration Law and asked to ask the committee to try to consider the matter during a break. I ask the committee to consider and to give me information when this law is ready for us to listen to it in the Supreme Council. Please.
