ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u1	Good morning, fellow countrymen! I'm asking you to take your jobs. Faction leaders, please invite deputies to work in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Take your seats so that we can begin our work as distinguished national deputies. Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats, take your seats. And we're starting our work. Please take up your jobs. I'm asking you to turn on the "Council" system for the registration of the National Deputies. [[10:07:30.]] 339 national deputies in the hall. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to take my place. And before we start looking at agenda issues, I would like to say a few words about today having an extremely responsible and unforgivable working day, because we have a number of very important issues to consider. And when we consider these issues, we realize that every decision we make affects the life of our country and every Ukrainian. So we're going to be very balanced, we have to be very professional to do what we need to do today at this very moment. And that puts a huge responsibility on us. I think there's a time when we can do the piano when we can just talk. It's time for action. But I stress that our actions should be extremely balanced and highly professional. Clearly, a number of decisions, including changes to Ukrainian legislation and budgeting, are extremely complex and difficult. In view of that, I would ask you to pay attention. And I'd like to propose a further consideration of the agenda, because I've been given the burden of factions of the coalition, and we'll go as follows. I'd like to focus. What's going on with the day-to-day agenda of our current plenary meeting. We're going to consider the issue of putting the agenda into the agenda of the day session. Next. We'll go through the first reading of extremely important laws. In particular, 1605, 1499, 1505, 1498, 1610 are the bills that today relate to people's lives and are to be adopted, including the question of not evicting people from their homes if they have foreign exchange loans; the issue of securing the rights of people living in residential homes; the question of transferring standards that will not allow people to sell their own products in Ukraine's markets (it is necessary to enable people to implement their products that they have grown up in their subsidiary holdings) and other issues, including the prosecutor's office, which will allow them to introduce a completely new approach to the formation of personnel policies in this area. Next. Before we begin to consider with you a package of laws 1577 -- where re-reading is, from the point of view of the budget package, there is a coalition faction's proposal for us to announce the break and continue to take place in the working order of all the bills, the positions of the faction. There will be a coalition council and final decisions will be adopted, which we will then make in the hall. If there is no objection, we can move on to the issue of the order of the day. Please, Pinzenik Viktor Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u2	Dear Volodymyr Borisovich, distinguished colleagues! On Thursday we agreed that the draft law on the denunciation of the Cyprus Agreement would be passed on to Sunday. It's Sunday. We insist that this project be put into the agenda, as we agreed on Thursday. We need to address very seriously the question of filling the budget's income.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u3	Thank you. I'll be waiting for suggestions from the committee on this subject today. Any suggestions from the committee? Please, Irina Heratschenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u4	Dear colleagues, the Committee on Euro-Integration has considered both these bills, which have been submitted by the Ukrainian National Deputies and the Government Bill. And here, by the way, we agreed with the position of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which insists that Ukraine should also fulfil its international obligations to countries, including the countries of the European Union, and the Vienna Convention, that if it comes to treaty denunciation, we should consult in advance with the country with which we denounce the agreement. So the committee's decision is ready, it's completely in line with the Foreign Ministry's position, and it tells us that we support the idea that we need to make a decision on the issue of denouncing the agreement, and then not only with Cyprus, but also with other countries with which we have this problem of double taxation, because it's not just Cyprus. And the second question. That in such a case, the government should start consultations on an expert level with the governments of those countries.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u5	Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u6	And the second question. What we recommend to the government is an urgent, first, joint decision, because it's strange when the government submits an appropriate bill, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs opposes and stresses the need for expert consultations and after this submission of the relevant bill. And so we think that the government should start consulting the government of the Republic of Cyprus right now, and we're going to set a strict framework for them that no later than a furious government will report on this and then we're going to look at the appropriate bill in the hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u7	Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the day-to-day agenda of the session. I am voting on Bill 1656, introduced by the President of Ukraine. The draft Law on the right to a fair trial of 27.12.2014, issued on 27.12.2014, is headed by the Committee on Legal Policy and Justice, Knyazevich Ruslan Petrovich. It's just the inclusion in the agenda of the day session, the order of the day session. Dear colleagues, please concentrate, we are voting for the inclusion in the agenda of the session. Please vote. For inclusion in the agenda of the day session, please vote. [[10:14:45]] For 255 Decision taken. The next question is 1657, the draft Law on amending the Budget Code (for granting benefits to individual citizens). The Budget Committee 1657 is government, the agenda for the day session. Vote please, Your Honor. Concentrate, please, on the order of the day session. [[10:15:24]] For 281 Decision taken. The next is the 1660 draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation to ensure the activities of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine, National Deputy Lucenko, a professional committee on prevention and anti-corruption. Integrating in the daytime. Integrating in the daytime. There will be a word during the discussion. Please vote. It's just getting into the agenda. Vote. We're not looking at it right now, it's getting into the agenda. [[10:16:01]] For 272 Decision taken. Next bill number. It's not the first reading, it's just getting into the agenda, and then we'll go. 1497, Bill 1497 on the judiciary and status of judges, draft Ukrainian Law. Please, it's given away? Please, Oksana Siroid.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u8	I apologize, Mr. Head, honourable fellow MPs, the point is that this is a bill that is actually the same as the bill on the right to a fair trial, registered by the President of Ukraine. Therefore, we propose that Bill 1497 be included in the agenda of the day session, so that the Committee on Legal Policy and Justice can work together and draw the right conclusions.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u9	No objection, dear colleagues? It's a day-to-day session, and we're going to be looking at it. Roger that. Please. Is there a word? Knazevitch? Please, Ruslan Knazevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u10	Mr. Head, I don't deny it, and the committee doesn't deny it, but we would like to include in this three more bills, which are related and subject to regulation, which is either partially or generally consistent with those involved. Then that makes sense. And if we're going to go one at a time, then there's no logic.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u11	And if they're related and they're looking together, there's no question. Who can.? Who can sound these bills? Please, Prince Ruslan Petrova. Give me your word. They have registered these bills in the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u12	This is Bill 1361, Bill 1497, Bill 1585 and 1590.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u13	1361.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u14	1497, 1585 and 1590.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u15	Thank you. I am then, if there are no objections to colleagues, because we have to consider this very important question from the point of view of the judicial system in Ukraine and the return of confidence in the courts in Ukraine. I put to the vote the number 1497 (since 17.12.), the initiators the billing deputies Siroid, Stonik, Zhuruy, Jemetz and Krulko. Please vote. [[10:18:58]] For 270. Decision taken. Next bill. Related Bills 1361 Please vote. Registration number 1361. [[10:19:22]] For 265 Decision taken. 1497. Oh, yes, I'm sorry. 1585, registration number 1585. [[10:19:48]] For 274 Decision taken. 1590. Bill (Registration No. 1590) Please vote for inclusion in the agenda. [[10:20:10]] For 273 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I propose that we be the bills that I just announced: 1605, 1499, 1499-1, 1505, 1505-1, 1498 and 1610, well, 1610 is the second reading, to have a brief discussion. I'm betting on voting on these issues. Say it again? This is the first reading in short, and what we're going to do is we're going to do a proper procedure, but we're going to call a break on the coalition's request. Please put to the vote the question of passing the reduced procedure: 1499, 1499-1, 1605, 1505, 1505-1, 1498. Please vote. There's no contradiction to these bills, so that's the proposal. [[10:21:19]] For 269 Decision taken. So let's move on to the day-to-day issues. Bill No. 1605, amending article 46 of the Ukrainian Procuratorial Act. Report by Knyazevich Ruslan Petrovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u16	Mr. Head, respectable colleagues! This is a bill that was already discussed in the hall when we included it in the agenda of the day session. I'm going to remind myself very briefly of what it's all about and what it's different from the one that was previously registered, and unfortunately, it's not supported by a session hall for inclusion in the agenda. The point is that I have proposed changes to article 46 of the Procurator's Act, the law in force, the one that ends its operation in exactly four and a half months. But these changes, as I see them, are important and important at this stage, because in terms of the ability to fill the prosecution's office, they are somewhat even revolutionary. It is an opportunity, as an exception, to give the Attorney-General the right to work and to appoint, starting with the first Deputy Attorney-General and assistants, for example, prosecutors, prosecutors, senior assistants, just assistants, persons who are not subject to special qualifications for positions, according to administrative positions in the Attorney-General's Office and prosecutors of the lower level. What is the specific point? It's about, you know, the law has a corresponding age rating, and the price of being in the prosecutor's office to embrace any position. Given that we see the need to upgrade the staff in the prosecutor's office, to allow persons who have professional legal education, but do not have the relevant experience or time required for the appointment, to still embrace certain staff positions in the prosecutor's office, if the Attorney General considers such a staff decision appropriate. This, I think, is an urgent need for time that will definitely add a new quality to the prosecution's activities and allow young people to do so in this historic one.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u17	Please let me finish the report.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u18	She earned the right to carry out the public service tasks that were before the prosecutor’s office. Moreover, considering that, unfortunately, there are certain issues in the old corps in the Attorney General's Office and in the lower level prosecutors, including their professional activities in the previous period. It is necessary to give young people, despite the lack of experience, the best possible way to do so is to make sure that not only the efficiency of the prosecutor’s office but also clearly recommend the relevant prosecutor in society’s eyes, as a person capable of defending his or her interests. Thank you very much, and I would like to support this bill not only as a basis but as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u19	Thank you. Mr. Andriy Anatoliyovich Kožemiakin, head of the profile committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u20	Dear head, distinguished national MPs! The Committee on Law Enforcement has twice considered in its sessions the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Article 46 of the Ukrainian Law on Public Prosecutions. As Ruslan Petrovich said, the aim of the project is to create conditions for participation in the offices of the Ukrainian Public Prosecutor's Office in order to ensure that the functions of the Public Prosecutor's Office are properly performed by non-involved professionals, workers who do not work in the system of prosecutorial bodies. Remember, on October 14, we adopted the Supreme Council passed the new Procuratorial Act, which takes effect on April 1, 2015. Under the new law, the selection of candidates for the positions of prosecutors, as well as their appointment, will allow them to fill the public prosecutor’s office with new, uninvolved professionals, no camaraderie, corruption, and other untransparent ways. Thus, during the period of establishment of self-governance authorities and a disciplinary qualification commission, namely, by April 1, 2015, it is proposed that the Attorney General of Ukraine be given the opportunity to appoint from the district prosecutor and to conclude with the first Deputy Attorney General persons who will be able to work in the designated posts under the new law. At the meeting of the committee and during his personal communication with the Attorney General, he assured the national deputies that the selection of candidates and the appointment of the prosecutor’s office to take effect by law would be carried out in compliance with the coalition requirements provided for by the new law. The committee therefore decided to recommend to the Supreme Council the adoption of Bill No. 1605) on the first reading as a basis. Therefore, honourable colleagues, please support the committee's decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u21	Thank you. Two for, two against. There's a proposition on the ground, and on the whole, because there's only one article, we can do that. Come on, two for it, two for it, two for it, please sign in. Please, Danchenko, Self-help.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u22	I'm handing over Captain.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u23	Please, just a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u24	Good morning, dear fellows! Of course, we support this initiative because we understand that the prosecutor's office today needs to be updated and needs new personnel, including those areas in which, unfortunately, our prosecutors are not oriented today. Unfortunately, however, we cannot support voting on the basis and on the whole, for the reason that the article does not define clear criteria and does not determine at which point the internship will be calculated. It's a risk that just and simply start to take on the role of prosecutors and assistant prosecutors, young people who don't have any skills at all and have no experience at all. So we think we can take it as a basis, but it has to be worked on the committee, and the day after that it can literally be accepted as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u25	Thank you. Please, Abdullin, the "Fatherland" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u26	Please pass on the word to Andrew Kožemiakin.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u27	Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Head! I want to support the speaker just from the Self-Help faction, colleague. Indeed, there are issues that can be resolved when this bill is drafted. But in general, I would like to reiterate that the Attorney-General has indeed taken responsibility — he has given his word, and he has promised that all the elections today at his appointment to the Attorney-General's Office for these posts will be made in accordance with the requirements and qualifications of the new Procurator's Act. Therefore, the committee will do its utmost to monitor these appointments. And, of course, he's working on everything that he doesn't have to do to complete this law in order to present it as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u28	Thank you. Please, People's Deputies of Doubenkov, the Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u29	Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to point out that this is a bill that wants to be passed by representatives of the so-called "majority" in the plenary room right now. In fact, this bill excludes the requirement of age censorship, for compulsory service in the field of prosecutorial work for workers, not for private workers, as the previous case has been said, but for workers. Management positions. These are prosecutors of the districts, the cities, the districts, the Attorney General's Office. In fact, it is proposed that the heads of the specified law enforcement system appoint people who will make important decisions without any experience in the system. There is no secret to anyone that the prosecution is a very serious tool in the hands of any authority, and this instrument must be geared primarily to protect the interests of citizens, to protect the interests of the economy of Ukraine. Regrettably, though, if people do not know the specifics of a given body’s work, they will not be able to carry out proper reform and make appropriate objective decisions because they do not know the subject matter of the prosecution’s activity. I would like to point out that the acquisition of foreign education is not a guarantee of quality reform of the prosecutorial system. I would also like to point out that, in fact, independent prosecutors could be, if representatives, once again, did not vote on the Prosecutor's Office Act in the form that was voted on in the previous session, which excluded the control of an independent and disciplinary commission, which would include independent professionals in the field of law. I therefore suggest that, under the transcript, I have a point to make, and it is not possible to vote on it as a whole in accordance with the Rules. I'm going to apply for this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u30	Thank you. People's MP Illenko, then Yemen, the People's Front. Oh, no! Excuse me! Litvin Volodymyr Mihajlovich, "Will of the People". Vladimir Mikhailovich, please. Then the National Deputy Illenko, then the Yemeni, the People's Front, then the Knyazevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u31	Dear Head, dear colleagues! The idea seems to be fresh, but I'd like to think about it, because when you do that, you can immediately assign surgeons to practice, you have to assign judges from the school bench. And obviously, when there was a qualification requirement for the necessary work experience, it was tested by the practice of life. If we follow European standards, let us imitate them. Let's remember the story, after 1917, including Kiev, the eelish gymnasts who played testosterone and who carried out justice were checkers, and when he liked a galliff or chrome boots, they just shot a man to take possession of that property. So I can see that we need to hurry in this direction in a balanced way, and we need to look at what possible inheritances could be from this legislative initiative. If so, and let the official institutions, including the Attorney General's Office, make the appropriate proposal that these are innovations and what they provide for the country. Especially is it obvious to people whose country is foreign to them. Because there was a minister here recently who said that he had a huge achievement, that he had reduced a large number of departments. So maybe you just had to shorten this ministry and Ukraine, the state wouldn't feel it at all. Let's not rush, let's not take any more nonsense. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u32	Thank you, Your Honor. I want to. I just want to quote an article of the law, if you please. Here's the next thing you can do, just listen carefully, because the speeches, they're denunciations of what's here. "In exceptional cases, the Attorney General of Ukraine may, in the interests of ensuring the proper performance of the functions of the Prosecutor's Office, if duly justified, decide on the appointment.".. The category of posts was said in the Attorney General's Office." persons of younger age than those provided for in this article." This language goes on to take away discrimination at the price of an age. "and who have not been provided for by this article to do in the prosecutor's office" means that people may not come from the prosecutor's system. But it's very important here: "but they have a proper legal career," that is, professional lawyers, not surgeons and dentists and so on. Thank you. Please, Illenka. Then Jemetz, then Mosiyczuk and then Ruslan Knyazevich. Please, just a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u33	Andrew Illenko, All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, 215 constituency. Dear colleagues, I fully support this bill and support my colleague Knazević, who needs to be voted on both the basis and in general. It's basically just one amendment, and it's actually a revolutionary amendment to the job of the prosecutor's office, because it finally makes it possible to really upgrade and actually improve jobs, personnel first of all, the Attorney General's Office and the Attorney General's Office in general. Because we all understand that there is a certain caste that is covered by these legislative standards that prevents new people from going there. It stretches like a log, and it needs to be changed. And if we listen to the Attorney General's Office, how she will reform herself, she will never reform herself. Therefore, we must vote in favour of this amendment. I fully support you. I urge you to vote for this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u34	Thank you. Please, Leonid Yemen. Then there's the Mosiychuk People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u35	Good afternoon. Leonid Yemeni, People's Front faction. Dear colleagues, as they say, you're not going to be able to lick a baguette. And, you know, today we have prosecutors preparing only a few privileged institutions in Ukraine. And then it gets locked around a loop. So, I'm sorry, they can't go anywhere, anywhere, anywhere, anywhere, anywhere, anything better than that. And this bill, which our faction will unanimously support, adds the right of the Attorney-General to appoint prosecutors of people who are not connected to this system, that is, people from outside, professional lawyers, who will finally be able to bring the prosecution to those European standards that we are trying to implement through the new Procurator's Law, through a series of other legislative acts. So today we have to give the right and the opportunity for the prosecution to be updated, to involve young qualified lawyers, so that the prosecution can finally assume the responsibilities that the Ukrainian people expect of them, namely, to ensure the rule of law, to ensure.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u36	Thank you. People's MP Moseschuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u37	Dear colleagues! Dear Ukrainian people! A very important amendment supported by the Radical Party. Note that for 23 years the prosecutor’s office has become an organized criminal group. Prosecutor Vasiliev, who essentially gave life to the thief block of the Party of Regions, the prosecutor of Pshonka, all their people are sitting in the prosecutor's office now, and only by means of a new updated blood in parliament. We'll be able to change the country in the DA's office. So the Radical Party faction calls on all colleagues to support the bill and vote for it in general, because it's important for the country, it's important for the nation. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u38	Thank you. Please, Ruslan Knazevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u39	Dear Head! Dear colleagues! Well, first of all, when we say it's such a radical experiment, and since we haven't had these precedents yet, we don't know what it might end up with, I reject that idea. Because I remind you that we have a Attorney General, a man who has never worked before in the D.A.'s office, and there is an experiment. So why are we not now allowing this Attorney General to engage in the same personnel that he knows very well outside the public prosecutor's office, who are capable of performing the tasks that are before the prosecutor's office? Why are we trying to get the old log back on -- don't God let some district attorney there who's been fed a long time, somebody, don't God, get out of work? That's not gonna happen, guys! We need to start changing the system pretty harshly and radically. And the last. Dear friends, this is about a law that will only work for three months, because in the new law, it's all settled equally. And that's exactly European practice, not what we're talking about, that's a violation. So it's no big deal if we're doing this kind of experiment right now for these three months and we're offering it. If it doesn't work, maybe there's a sense in that new law and it doesn't go on. But some.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u40	Please make an offer, Ruslan Petrovich. Any suggestions from the committee?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u41	So I would very much like to put this bill to the vote as a basis and as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u42	That's right. Please, Andrew Cosemykin, head of the profile committee, 30 seconds in position.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u43	Dear colleagues, I would like to support Ruslan Petrovich also because this proposal arose, the initiative arose after both Committees - anti-corruption and law enforcement issues - heard the Attorney General, the Minister of Internal Affairs, the Head of the Security Service of Ukraine and decided to investigate more effectively the crimes against humanity committed in Maidan in order to reclassify the investigation of this crime on., to investigate the signs of article 255. And that's exactly what was suggested today to change the people who are doing this because they're engaged and they're doing it ineffectively and treacherously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u44	I ask the National Deputies to prepare for the vote. Please prepare for the vote, and I put to the vote a bill amending article 46 of the Ukrainian Procurator's Act. Registration number 1605. As suggested by the profile committee and the author, on the basis and in general. Vote please, Your Honor. On the basis and in general. [[10:41:07]] For 283 Decision taken. Thank you. The factions. Thank you, distinguished national MPs. Next, please. I'm introducing a draft Act amending the Food Safety and Quality Act. There are 2 bills 1499 and 1499-1. Now we're going to be looking at 1499-1, because 1499 is the author of the bill. Please, sell Oksana. Please. You don't have to.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u45	Good afternoon, Reverend Vladimir Borisovich, distinguished colleagues. In the past summer, we adopted a comprehensive Law on Food Safety and Quality, which will introduce European regulations in Ukraine that have absolutely everything to do with food production. But the problem is that the law that we have adopted, which will work, which is supported by the European community, will take effect as of September 20, 2015. And to date, until September 20, 2015, the old law, which was enacted in 2005, when Ukraine joined the WTO and there is a rule in article 35 of this law that prohibits the marketing of agricultural products that are dairy or meat products produced in rural farms in the courtyards from 1 January 2015. In order to regulate this rule, in order not to prohibit the implementation of agricultural products in the markets for the coming year, we have prepared a bill which the standards of the future law already adopted and agreed upon by the EU in Article 36 are transposed into an article of the current law of 35 articles. That is, everything we have adopted in the seventh call for EU support is passed into the law that is now in force. There's only one amendment to that is that we exclude the words "which will ensure the traceability of production" because it's not there today, and we write "according to the law." We rule out in paragraphs 1 and 2 of this 35 articles the word "state inspector who is on the food market" because there is no such thing today. And if I may, I'm running out of time. I'd like to read the entire text, there's only 5 little points to make you understand what we're doing. If you don't mind, Vladimir Borisovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u46	Please. Allow the stenographer to read.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u47	Article 35. Whole carcases or parts of carcases of farmed and other hoofed animals, carcasses of domestic birds, rabbits and small wild animals, fish, honey, eggs, milk not processed, cheese of domestic production and products of plant origin, may be sold in agro-food markets, provided their suitability is confirmed by tests, laboratory research, veterinary health expertise in the agro-food market. Non - domestic food products that are accompanied by documents in accordance with the law are not subject to the stated test. The fitness mark is applied to whole carcases or carcases of porcine and other ungulate animals for each carcass of small wild animals and domestic birds for which human consumption is confirmed. According to the tests of the State Laboratory of Veterinary Medicine, which is in the agro-food market. The human consumption of plant products as well as unprocessed milk and raw household production is confirmed by tests of research by the State Laboratory of Veterinary Medicine. Carcases that are not fit for consumption by people who cannot be used for human consumption on the basis of the results of the laboratory studies show that the product is unfit for consumption. A food that is unfit for human consumption but does not pose a direct threat to human health, is prevented and disposed of by the owner. A food product that is unfit for human consumption but poses a direct threat, a high risk to human health, is subject to immediate removal by the owner and disposal or destruction under the control of the State inspector in accordance with legislation. The functioning of the agro-food market is prohibited in the absence of laboratories for veterinary expertise. I ask all the MPs to support this bill as a whole. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u48	Thank you, Oksana Petrovna. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this matter? We have to vote, support our own farms, support our peasants. So I'm voting on the basis and in general, with the rights and changes that have just been announced. Draft law 1499-1. Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote. [[Noise Nodes]] The committee's asking for two words, profile, please. I'm asking. Please, Taras Kutov.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u49	Dear colleagues, simply to follow procedure, in the same line read by Oxana Petrovna from the rostrum today, the committee decided to support the bill as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u50	Dear colleagues, national deputies, me. This was a good suggestion -- on the basis and in general, with those proposals that were announced. Because the question is January 1st, and we have to support the peasants with you. So I'd like to prepare for the vote right now. And I'm putting 1499-1 to the vote as a basis and as a whole. We'll support the peasants. Ladies and gentlemen, please vote. Please vote on the basis and in general, with rights and changes. [[10:46:54]] For 310 Decision taken. The peasant was supported. Thank you, Your Honor. Come on, colleagues. Question 1505. The National MP, ensuring the realization of the housing rights of the residents, is also an extremely important issue. National Deputy Batenko Taras Ivanovich Please, Taras Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u51	Dear Mr. Head! Honorable fellow MPs, respectable community! As you know, a moratorium on the alienation of hostels has been completed in Ukraine. And we actually have a situation where half a million citizens, if not less, half a million citizens who now live in hostels owned by state-owned enterprises, institutions and organizations, as well as those dormitories that were built in Soviet times, are now denied the right to privatize their premises free of charge. To prevent this and to continue the moratorium, the bill was introduced. In fact, there are two bills that are almost identical -- 1505 and 1505-1 -- the difference between which is actually just one principle. As you know, Parliamentary hearings in May this year, together with the national MPs, all-U.S. public, trade-union organizations, have taken a decision, which was then a corresponding Supreme Council decree in September, recommending that the moratorium on the alienation of hostels continue until January 2020. This is actually one important principle of position in two bills. And I ask you, fellow honourable Members, not to drag you through these bills, to vote on them as a basis and as a whole in this plenary session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u52	Thank you. Communicator, do you insist on your word? Please, Shinkovich Andriy Vasilovich, deputy head of the committee of profile.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u53	Dear Volodymyr Borisovich, distinguished colleagues! Two bills are 1505 and 1505-1. 1505-1, according to the committee, recommended for adoption as being more prepared. He is the co-author of various factions. And we ask him to support it, exactly 1505-1, on the basis of the whole. After all, this is a question that concerns more than half a million people. The moratorium is actually over, and unfortunately, the second reading will simply not be possible because we have a number of other issues. So please, Volodymyr Borisovich, put 1505-1 on the ground as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u54	Thank you, Your Honor. I think we also have full unity here in this bill and we need to protect the rights of people who live in hostels today. So I'm voting now on Bill 1505-1 as a basis and as a whole. Please be determined by the vote of the People's Deputies. On the basis and in general. What is most important is that we support people who live in hostels. Please vote 1505-1 as a whole. Vote please, Your Honor. [[10:50:15]] For 313 Decision taken. Thank you. I think under the tree it's a very good signal for people who live in dormitories.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u55	That's right. And the next thing is to have a normal place to live, not just dormitories. Draft Act No. 1498 is a draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine (removing the licensing of imports of active pharmaceutical ingredients). Number 1498. National Deputy Zagori Glib Volodymyrovich is a reporter. Please report, please. Then he's the head of the Halasyuk Profile Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u56	Dear Volodymyr Borisovich, distinguished national deputies! Allow me to introduce briefly the draft Ukrainian Act amending certain laws of Ukraine (to revoke the licence for the import of active pharmaceutical ingredients) number 1498. I would like to point out immediately that licensing imports and licensing imports of active pharmaceutical ingredients are not the same. The licensing of imports of medical devices has been the norm of European legislation since 2001 and corresponds to Article 40 of Directive 83 of the European Union. As a whole, import of drugs is a pro-European decision. But from the initiative of the Council of National Security and Defence in 2012, our country went beyond European countries and distributed all requirements for imports of ready-made drugs and imports of raw materials for their production, even though this is contrary to European and world practice. Ukraine has become the only country in the world where the licensing requirement for substances has been laid down. A major error has been made, the price of which is the threat of halting domestic pharmaceutical companies since January 1, 2015. No domestic enterprise will be able to obtain import licences because there are no documents required to obtain licences from overseas pharmaceutical manufacturers. As a result, domestic companies will not be able to import the substance needed for the production of medicines into Ukraine. If the Supreme Council of Ukraine fails to correct the earlier error and does not reverse the requirement to license imports of substances, 116 businesses in the pharmaceutical sector of Ukraine will cease as of January 1, 2015. I'd like to draw your attention to the fact that it's these enterprises that are forming about 2 percent of the country's GDP today. The adoption of the draft law does not require additional budgetary funding. Therefore, given the absolute gravity of the waiver of licensing for imports of substances for the State, I would like to support, on the basis and as a whole, the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine (as regards the lifting of licences).
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u57	Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u58	(retirement of the licence for the import of active pharmaceutical ingredients) (No. 1498). Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u59	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss? I know there are different positions of factions. I think we're going to take it as a basis. Halasjuk, please, National Deputy Halasjuk. The chairman of the committee will speak, and we will continue to vote on the basis of the first reading, and then we will work on the committees. And in general.? Please, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u60	Dear Volodymyr Borisovich, distinguished colleagues! The Committee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship considered the draft Law on Amendments to Certain Laws of Ukraine (with a view to revoking the licensing of active pharmaceutical ingredients) (registration number 1498), submitted by Zagorie, Bachevi, Alexeyev. The purpose of the bill is to revoke the licence for the import of active pharmaceutical ingredients, which was scheduled for January 1, 2015. The Chief Scientific and Expert Authority of the Supreme Council, in its conclusion of December 26, supports its adoption on the first reading as a basis. The Anti-Corruption and Anti-Corruption Committee believes that the bill meets the requirements of anti-corruption legislation. National deputies, members of the committee, after considering the bill, noted that it would help create the right conditions for entrepreneurship in the pharmaceutical market, improve legislation in the field of drug circulation, deregulation and business promotion. In view of the foregoing, the members of the committee decided to bring draft Law 1498 before the Supreme Council for consideration and to propose that it be adopted in the first reading as a basis and as a whole as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u61	Thank you, Your Honor. Is there a need to make a statement about this? Please, Ivanchuk. People's MP Ivanchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u62	Dear Mr. Head, honourable national deputies, the People's Front faction is ready to support this bill in the first reading on the ground. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u63	Thank you. I think it's perfectly logical. Please, Nestor Schufric, 30 seconds, please don't delay the discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u64	Thank you. The honourable presiding, respected colleagues, the opposition insists that this law be passed as a law as a whole. Immediately, from January 1st he will enter into force. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u65	Thank you, Your Honor. I think we can take it as a basis in the first reading. Please work with the committee again now, see if there are differences between the factions to vote it out. So I am now voting on the basis of Bill No. 1498 in the first reading of the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine on the lifting of licences for the import of active pharmaceutical ingredients. I'll bet you a vote, please. On the basis of the first reading, please vote. [[10:56:41]] For 304 Decision taken. I'm giving the commission to the profile committee. Please work with the faction leaders so we don't have any contradictions. Thank you. The bill (Registration No. 1610), the draft Act amending the Ukrainian law on moratorium on the acquisition of Ukrainian citizens' property, provided as collateral for foreign exchange loans. An extremely important bill, honourable colleagues, and we need to look at it very carefully right now. Please, head of the Committee of Fishermen Sergio Viktorovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u66	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues. On Thursday, December 25, we adopted this bill 1610 as a basis and a shortening of the deadlines for preparing it for the second reading. Let me remind you, this is about protecting our citizens' living rights. Because of the heavy devaluation of the bracelets in June of this year, the parliament imposed a temporary moratorium on the acquisition of citizens’ housing assets provided as collateral for foreign exchange loans. I would also like to remind you that this is the only place where a person lives. Yet, legislative contradictions in the law have found holes. People began to receive housing extensively because of the executive inscription of the Notaryus. Let me underline, the moratorium is temporary, it has to work before the currency loan is restructured. A working group is working on the financial committee, where representatives of NBA and Minfin banks are already approaching a compromise. I very much hope that this painful knot will be resolved. People will be given quality and will be able to gradually pay off their debts. But for this moment, people should not lose their only home. That's why we're proposing to cover the gaps in the memo. As a result, the committee met yesterday, we discussed the amendments that had come to the committee, and the committee unanimously decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of the bill in the second reading and in general the proposed edition. Dear colleagues, I personally, all co-authors of the bill and members of our committee, as well as the entire faction of the Radical Party, urge you to support this bill and the people who may lose their lives. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u67	Thank you. I think there's a very important question here. There are proposals in the voting room, there is unity appropriate. So now, please, I'm going to need to concentrate. Project registration number 1610. Ukraine's draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on the Moratorium for the Acquisition of Property. " Is there any change? Let's hear it. Deputies of the people of Yemen. Please give me a minute to fix it.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u68	Thank you. Dear colleagues, first of all, I am addressing those majors who are here half in this room. You're being visited by people you have direct contact with, and you're seeing the tears of Ukrainian citizens that banks are trying to evict today. The point is that this bill deals exclusively with people who have taken out foreign exchange loans. But there are other people who took mortgages at their own home not only in the foreign currency but also in the Ukrainian currency. And today in a country where there's a crisis, when there's a war, when inflation has already doubled the cost of the bracelet relative to the dollar, but let's not forget that people don't get paid in the dollar and they've lost their income twice, and prices have doubled. And today these people just can't pay off the loans they took in the national currency. And today, you are visited by people who have every chance of being evicted or who are already on the street, with young children, their families.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u69	Thank you. Ten seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u70	And today, I'm asking you to make corrections that will allow you to protect these people, and that's millions of Ukrainian citizens. Anyone who does not support these changes should understand that he is personally responsible for these families that are on the street today.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u71	Thank you, colleagues. Look, we're looking at this bill in the second reading right now. Accordingly, the table of amendments is given and let's go after these amendments. Please, first. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, please. 1 amendment, national deputy Lensky. It's counted by the committee. Amendment 2. It's taken into account essentially. People's Deputy Shipko. The amendment of the national MP, Voropeyeva, was rejected by the committee. Let's move on. Four. Counted. 5th. It's taken into account essentially. Six. Counted. 7th Amendment, Yemeni People's Deputy. Declined. Are you insisting on her? Are you insisting? I'm betting on the vote on the 7th amendment, the national deputy of Yemen and the national deputy of Melniczuk. Please determine by vote. 7th Amendment. [[11:02:30.]] For 148 Not accepted. The factions, please. Please, Yemen.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u72	Mr. Head, I have a huge request to the chairman of the committee to give any explanation as to why the committee has rejected these overwhelming amendments for Ukrainian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u73	Well, this should be considered at the committee meeting. 8th Amendment, please, National Deputy Yemen, People's Deputy Melniczuk. Dear colleagues, I'd like to be more careful. Are you insisting on putting her to the vote, the eighth amendment? You insist. Please, I'll bet on the vote on the 8th amendment. [[11:03:24]] For a hundred and Not counted. The 9th amendment, the national deputy of Yemen, the national deputy of Melniczuk, was also rejected by the committee. I'll bet you a vote. 9th Amendment, Your Honor. [[11:03:48]] For-137 I've given you an order to be shown by factions at once, so as it used to be, what you have to say by factions is no longer necessary, you will automatically see for yourself. 10th Amendment, People's Deputy Voropayev. Please, for a minute, the People's MP was the amendment's author, it was rejected by the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u74	Dear colleagues, what is the point of the amendment? A moratorium is introduced, according to the law, for an indefinite period of moratorium per year, for two years, for five years, it is not known that this is not contained in the law. But at the same time, banks will have to form reserves at the same amount that are now frozen. My amendment proposes to introduce this moratorium for a period of three years, and then three years later, we will see what happens next. In this way, banks will not need to create reserves for an indefinite period of time and banks will be able to repay the deposits they have now taken from their clients. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u75	Thank you. You have heard the comment by the author of Amendment 10, National MP Voropeyev. I put to the vote the amendment rejected by the committee at number 10. Please. [[11:05:15.]] For-95 Not accepted. Dear colleagues, we've been through all the adjustments. 11th Amendment. National MP Romanyuk. Counted. I'm putting in a second reading and in general Bill No. 1610 the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Moratorium on Securing the Property of Ukrainian Citizens, which is provided as collateral for loans in foreign currency, on strengthening the protection of the rights of borrowers in the second reading and in general. Please vote. In the second reading and in general, respected colleagues. [[11:05:57]] For 290 Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleagues, as we agreed, we have made a number of ambitious decisions, we have yet to consider the issues that are the basis for the budget, the issues are complex, we need to deal with them very clearly right now. I have a request, a letter from the two factions of Self-Help and the "Radical Party of Oleg Laska" to announce the break. I have a 30-minute recess to announce, in accordance with the Rules. So I'm calling it a 30-minute break. Thank you, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u76	Ladies and gentlemen, a brief message. Now, there's a difficult but fruitful discussion that's almost coming out, positive and optimistic, budgeted, between experts, government and factions heads. And so at the request of the two political factions, the People's Front and the Peter Prashenko Block, I'm announcing a break for another half hour, and I'm very much asking all MPs to respond with understanding. The more productive we work with experts, the easier and more effective the work will go in the hall. Half an hour's break. By 1:20 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u77	I want to apologize, the board of the coalition with the government cannot prepare and agree on any amendments to the bills to be considered. And therefore, in view of the ongoing work of the coalition with the government, a consolidated position was decided on the continuation of the break, which was to begin at 14 hours to 16-00. So we're going to be in the room at 16:00. Once again, I offer my apologies, the national deputies of Ukraine. Yes, here in the room at 16:00. Yes, of course, today, here. Please. I'm asking very much by 16:00 to work actively on the committees, to consider addressing voters, not to waste time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u78	Hello. I'm glad you have such good intuition. As the coalition council continues to work with the government, we will continue our meeting at 4:00. At 18, I'm sorry. It's 6:00. By the 18th. By the 18th.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u79	Ladies and gentlemen, I have a good news: an expert group meeting is coming to an end and all the faction leaders have asked for it, and there are several dozen deputies who are actively engaged in the discussion for half an hour. At seven, we'll be able to get started. I am very much asking to understand the situation. The leaders of all the factions of the coalition asked for this, and so we will begin our work 15 to seven. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u80	Good evening, distinguished national MPs! We're continuing our meeting. And I want to, I want to, I want to apologize for working so long. But the factions of the coalition have asked us to continue their work and to find the decisions that we will be voting with you today in the hall. Before that, I would have asked all the deputies to come into the hall. Before that, I think we should make a decision to continue our work, if you don't mind. I didn't close the meeting, so you can do anything. Dear colleagues! I'm asking everyone to take their seats. I'm asking the faction leaders to be invited to the hall. So that we can start our work or continue our work. People's deputies please take up their jobs. People's deputies please take up their jobs. Please take up jobs. Ladies and gentlemen, please. I wanted to, because the plenary meeting is not closed, I'm making a proposal, I'm asking you to prepare for the vote, Oksano Ivanovno. I propose that today’s plenary work continue until the day’s work is completed. People's deputies, please vote. Please vote on the proposal to continue today's plenary work pending the conclusion of the agenda. Vote, dear friends. Please vote, please vote. Vote please, Your Honor. [[20:40:42]] For 249 Decision taken. We will continue our work. Dear colleagues, I would like to inform you that the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Arsenius Petrovich Yatsenuk, and the full composition of the Cabinet of Ministers, are taking part in our session. Let's welcome him. [[Applause]] The factions decide the first order of the day, which we will now consider. I invite you to the words of Prime Minister Arsenius Petrovich Yatsenuk of Ukraine. We're starting a second reading discussion. Please, Arsenia Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u81	Honourable National Deputies of Ukraine, Your Honor! First of all, I would like to thank everyone for how fruitful we are today, almost for 10 hours, we have been working on all the pieces of legislation that will be adopted by Parliament today. It was difficult, but it was the right job. And the set of things that the coalition has adopted, and it seems that we've done the right thing, which will allow us, on the one hand, to introduce a fair tax system, on the other hand, that will enable us to fill the budget, and it won't bring in both the corruption component and it won't create problems for small and medium-sized businesses. I'd like to remind you, dear colleagues, of the basics of our joint tax reform with you. First of all, it's about reducing the amount of taxes. We have 22 taxes now, we're reducing them to 9. And this was the common position of all members of the coalition. The other one. With regard to taxation of small and medium-sized businesses. So we're lowering taxes on small and medium-sized businesses. And at the same time, we're introducing a moratorium on small and medium-sized businesses for two years. Third. As far as taxation is concerned. This unanimously supports the decision to extend all the high rates that are valid today after taxes on oil rents, on gas, on other useful mines. The fourth thing we've agreed on with you is the introduction of transfer pricing for all the big business that can now not hide its profits and its assets in offshore areas. Fifth. That's what we're going in the way of reducing the only social contribution and detining wages. These are the basic parameters that we will now consider with you when we adopt the Tax Code. As part of our work, I would like to read clearly under the transcript every item that is in line with the Tax Code that we have accepted. And when we sign the law, we're going to have technical legal drafting of the bill, and the committee is going to be working on the corresponding articles, just like we just put them out with you and how I'm going to read them. We had an issue about paying taxes on the added value of farmers. Let me remind you that we left a special tax system with the added cost to the agrarian industry. That is, the amount of subsidies that the State provides through the value added tax remains with all the producers. It was part of our coalition agreement. With regard to tax compensation for the added value of grain traders, grain traders will not be entitled to VAT compensation. [[Applause]] This right rests exclusively with agricultural producers. [[Applause]] So if you'll excuse me, I'll read the phrase that we agreed with you, and then we'll do it editorially with you. "Recovery of VAT only to agricultural VAT producers on export operations in the customs mode of export of cereals and technical crops." Copy that? Let's move on. The second point, which involved taxation of passive incomes, was that of respectable colleagues. Oleg Beresuk, faction. Excuse me, Volodymyr Borisovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u82	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u83	We have a faction manager. We agreed that if there are any warnings, any objections, the faction manager takes the word, and then we regulate it so there are no questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u84	Please, Oleg Berezuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u85	Mr. Prime Minister, at our first meeting in the morning, but throughout the day, we agreed that we would put everyone in equal conditions, at least by 1 July. I realize that the meeting at dinner changed late. And I'd like to think about going back to the original question of our question of equal terms, if all of them, by July 1st until there are electronic VAT accounts.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u86	Mr. Oleg, Mr. Oleg, your proposal has been made. But I would like to remind you once again that at the last meeting that the faction leaders attended by the President of Ukraine made the following decision: in this case, compensation for the added value for the agricultural producer is a direct aid, including the small farmer that he receives as compensation from the VAT budget, because he made it, he sold it himself, and he got help from the budget. We've been through this. And I would very much like to ask, colleagues, we've passed the first point and, well, there's some misunderstanding. You and I will be able to make changes, this is an eternal law, and no one is breaking the law, and we will continue to work on improving the laws. So please accept again.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u87	Let's move on. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u88	Position: No compensation is received by the grain traders, the one who made his own land, the one who grew up and sold it, will receive it (dot). Next. Dear colleagues, taxation on the income of natural persons. Colleagues, you and I are taxing so-called passive incomes because it's about passive income -- dividends, interest, royalty and other passive incomes being taxed. That's fair and fair. We raise the passive income tax. Attention, which passive incomes are interest, royalty and investment gains from 15 to 20 percent. Next. For dividends paid by business entities that are taxpayers for a 5 - percent interest rate. For business entities that are not paying income tax, the rate is 20 percent. Next, about the property tax. I remind you that the property tax is included, namely, the taxation of residential property objects, which is counted and administered by local authorities, which is the income of local budgets. We should allow local budgets to receive additional resources. There was a discussion about not using local budgets to tax so - called social property. That is why the proposal made by the coalition of MP factions is supported. And we're setting minimum thresholds with you. It is not taxed up to 60 square feet [60 sq m] for an apartment, nor is it taxed up to 120 square feet [120 sq m] for a house. Nor is it taxed on residential property used in agriculture, industry, mafias, and kiosks, which are subjects of small businesses, where people earn their own income, and markets. We've agreed with you, too. Now let's move on, colleagues, about the rents. We now have higher rates on rent payments: oil, gas, gas, condensate. So that's what we're setting up. Set on a permanent basis the following rates of oil and condensate interest rates, 45 percent of deposits, up to five miles [5 km], 21 percent of deposits, over five miles [5 km] away. For nonhuman natural gas, 55 percent of deposits are up to five miles [5 km]. A decision has just been made to lift from 20 to 28 miles [20 to 28 km] of deposits. Now, with regard to the so - called joint activity treaties. Depending on the depth of the proceeds, a step - by - step increase in the rate is foreseen. First quarter 60 percent. Second quarter, 65 percent. Starting in the third quarter of the current year, 70 percent. The idea is to encourage companies that have a common activity in the area of gas production to move to a product distribution agreement. Next. Keep on a permanent basis the payment of rents for oil and oil products by main oil pipelines and oil pipelines, transit transport by natural gas and ammonia pipelines, by setting the equivalent wage rates in US dollars that meet world standards, this is established by Ukraine's separate law. Next. Leave the government's proposed application of the general tax conditions for joint investment institutions. You know, we don't have private citizens as part of joint investment institutions. And unfortunately, this mechanism is used to avoid paying taxes. That's why you and I have decided to tax the income of a natural person from the joint investment institutions at 20 percent. In particular, I'm stressing that we're comparing passive income rates in all kinds, i.e. there's a 20 percent rate everywhere, so there's no possibility and there's a desire to avoid taxation using different kinds of schemes and models. In legal persons, income from joint investment institutions is included in the tax base. Next. Leave the government’s proposed increase in the financial performance of the income tax payer by 30 percent in the cost of individual transactions, eliminating restrictions on the cost of goods, jobs, and services purchased by the simplified tax system entities. Simply put, an offshore worker does not charge 100 percent to himself. For small and medium-sized businesses: you paid -- you gave yourself 100 percent of what you paid for. Next. Foresee the Government’s proposed rules on the uninterrupted collection of funds from accounts and cash on the solely declared taxpayer’s tax liability only in the first half of this year, if the tax amount exceeds 5 million dollars and if there is no agreed tax liability on the part of the State in relation to the taxpayer. Did you pass, Julia Volodymyrna? We're through. Let's move on. We agree to maintain the tax system for education and medicine. Although, let me be clear, a number of medical services should, first of all, be taxed on added value. But you made that decision, we're going to a meeting. [[Applause]] Now for the special tax administration procedure for the added value. There have been lengthy discussions about the introduction of this special procedure. We've made a common compromise, which is what we're going to do next. Provide test mode for the application of the VAT administration system from 1 February to 1 July of this year. To provide for inclusion in the formula, the formula used to determine the amount of the tax payer’s right to write and register a tax note in a single register of tax overheads of the total amount of negative VAT accumulated in previous periods. Next. The State Fiscal Service publishes on its website a list of debtors and amounts of debt on all taxes per month, cutting off all business entities. And it's a rule of law for us to see exactly who doesn't pay, what are the amounts by which the taxpayers are registered. Julia Volodymyr, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u89	Julia Timoshenko, please turn it on. Alexander Volodymyr's Kugel, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u90	Arsenius Petrovich, in the section where. mode, we agreed on 1 February's set size. Because it's left over on February 1. Finishing with the remainders set on February 1st is what was the only edit.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u91	Let him go. Okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u92	Thank you, I'm in.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u93	Remnants, February 1st, Oleg Berezuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u94	Oleg Berezuk, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u95	I'm in a hurry, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u96	Arseny Petrovich, we're talking about the debtors that we're divulging, we're talking about taxpayers for the added value exclusively to whom we've declared and not paid taxes for the added value, per month in all areas, to see where the manager and who these pits exist is only interested in VAT.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u97	Dear colleagues! There is a proposal not only for VAT, there is a proposal to publish a list of all taxpayers by name regardless of the type of tax they owe to the State, including the value added tax. Expand this list to all business entities and the place of registration in the relevant government fiscal service in the area concerned. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u98	Thank you. Let's keep moving. Please, Arseny Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u99	And then, dear fellows, we also had a long discussion with you about establishing excise taxes on retail beer, alcoholic beverages, tobacco and fuel. Let me remind you that this is the income that will be included in the local budgets. Local budgets and local authorities ask for and demand resources, we give them this resource, but we also give them responsibility for the administration and management of these kinds of taxes. Set the excise tax rate on retail beer and alcoholic beverages, tobacco products, and fuel to 5 percent of the amount of implementation. Next: To impose a tax on luxury cars, both diesel and petrol vehicles above 3,000 cubic inches [3,000 cu cm] under five years of age. Next: Paying for a license to trade in alcoholic beverages and tobacco products, the government increases its decisions by taking into account inflation and the real value of such licenses. So we raise all the license rates that are issued for the trade in alcohol and tobacco products. Next, regarding the social organizations of persons with disabilities. We store existing tax benefits for enterprises of disabled people's organizations. And I'm going to ask the State Fiscal Service not to hide under the name of a public organization of people with disabilities those who try to avoid taxation, and real social organizations of people with disabilities stay on the sidelines.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u100	One is the readjustment, one minute. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u101	Alexander Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u102	Please pay attention, not to enterprises with disabilities, but to enterprises with disabilities.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u103	Roger that. It's technically accepted.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u104	And so it was said, again, thanks for the readout.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u105	Come on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u106	Now, comrades, we had a story where the lottery tax was 10 percent, from the prize fund. The appeal fund was a penny, and the total turnover was tens and hundreds of millions. We agreed with you, with the adoption of the amendments to the Tax Code, now the tax on lottery sales at 10 percent. [[Applause]] Now, with regard to accounting registers, to provide for the mandatory application of such taxes: a third group of individuals and entrepreneurs besides those who operate in markets – sales of goods on a retail network through mobile networks. We've been doing this since July 1, 2015. Next, the second group of individuals and entrepreneurs besides those who engage in market activities for the sale of goods on a retail network through mobile networks since January 1, 2016. Next, as of July 1, 2015, to establish an electronic office for the taxpayer. This should be done by the tax administration, where it's actually going to be the electronic file of each taxpayer. With regard to the verification of the incoming VAT, the check of the incoming VAT has been terminated since the introduction of the full-scale electronic VAT administration. And last of all, with regard to government activity, the government should prepare and submit to Parliament in the shortest terms, we're setting the average term -- the first quarter of this year, the bill on the additional introduction of property taxes for luxury items. Dear colleagues, there is a request for you: taking into account the coalition's recent joint work with the government and the committee's conclusions, which are agreed upon by the government, to adopt the bill as a basis and as a whole. Report completed.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u107	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm putting you to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u108	Oleg! Oleg wants something. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u109	Beresuk? Oleg Berezuk, please give me a minute. [[B in m in s a l in]] Wait a minute!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u110	Dear colleagues, I insist that this first part, the first paragraph of our joint protocol, be voted separately, or that we correct it according to our arrangements in the morning. It's a matter of morale for the same market conditions of all our country's farms.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u111	Dear friends, the self-help faction, I'd like to ask you very much. I'd like us to agree on this: in the first quarter, let's propose this edition, which is: compensation for VAT only to farmers. After that, we'll be with you in exactly three weeks to make changes, including this tax code. And that's right. When we give the right signal that the manufacturer will get the compensation, not the trader. We've been through this and I'm asking the Self-Help faction to support the decision we made in the presence of the President of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u112	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, please calm down. Dear colleagues, one minute, one minute, one minute. There's another question in Beresuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u113	Oleg Berezuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u114	Thank you very much. I'll have to tell Miroshnicka.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u115	Please, Self-Help.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u116	Dear colleagues, I'd like to explain a little bit what we've agreed on and what we're proposing. First, we have in the Coalition Agreement a return of VAT on the export of cereals to producers and to the first mediator. Why would you do that? [[Applause]] No, no, I want to. I want to explain, please. [[B in m in s a l in]] Let me explain. We have small producers, medium-sized farmers export only about 5 per cent, so they will not be able to use the VAT refund, it will not be included in the price. Therefore, what our colleagues say, the manufacturer will not receive any additional payment at the price of such formulation. The main plus is who gets the extra income in this case.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u117	Let me finish, 10 seconds, 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u118	These are units, a few dozen of our big agrarian holdings and all. Our farmer and the producer will not profit in this case. That is why we insisted that he be the producer and the first mediator.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u119	Dear friends, respectable, respectable coalition, dear friends, once again, I am addressing everyone again.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u120	Comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u121	As part of our coalition, we will make changes not only to this Tax Code but also to all laws. I'd really like to hear it again: we've cleared the traders for VAT damages.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u122	Dear colleagues, let's do it this way: I'm going to put it to the vote now -- and we're going to vote on this. [[B in m in s a l in]] I am voting as a whole on the second reading of the amendments announced by Arsenija Petrovich Yacenuk, second reading and in general Bill 1578. I ask you to vote. Please vote 1578 on the second reading and in general with the amendments announced by Arsenija Petrovich. Let's vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] We are determined by the way of the vote, dear fellows! [[21:06:31]] For 204 The decision is not taken. 204. Now, after the first amendment, what will be the proposals, dear colleagues, after the first amendment? [[B in m in s a l in]] He's the head of the Kutowa Profile Committee. Please, just a minute. And I'm asking everyone to take their seats. I'm asking everyone to take their seats. Please, corner.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u123	Dear colleagues, a few important things. First. This test regime was already in operation in the fourth quarter of last year. Of all the people who have exported 5 percent, these are the guys who seem to be hurt by the Kabmin. All the others are five agrarian companies that have compensated themselves. So by keeping this regime, we save the regime for five companies. I also want to say that the agro-man status is the one who produces 75 percent of its grain. The other 25 he buys in the market. We're going to count: 3 million of his own -- he bought 1 million out of the market. This is an absolutely discriminatory norm for all market participants. You can't accept that, it's total discrimination on the market. And when we are told today that it is the protection of the village, it is the lobbying interests of large holdings. And we don't have to lie!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u124	Dear colleagues, let's ask Oleg Berezuk for one minute and ask Arsenius Petrovich to make an alternative proposal. Sit down, please!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u125	Dear colleagues, be careful. Today we agreed very well that we are no one. We're putting everyone in the same conditions. And I'm going to suggest alternatively that in the first quarter we look at this question if we have to look at it. And now we all go together quietly, quietly and normally we vote for the law. As agreed. And if we have to, let's take a look at the first quarter.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u126	I think that's a good offer. She's totally settling everyone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u127	Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! My position is for everyone to be in the same conditions. All of them. And so if you agree to the formulation, all the comrades that. Then neither manufacturers, mediators, firsts, seconds, nor fifths. [[Applause]] Then I ask you to put it to the vote. And we'll figure out how to work with the results of the first quarter.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u128	We'll figure it out. Roger that. I put to the vote in general with the last amendment, all the amendments that have been called, the bill (registration number 1578) in the second reading and in general. I'll bet you a vote. With the last amendment of the Prime Minister. With the last amendment of the Prime Minister. Please vote. And all the amendments that have been said. Vote. Please vote. Determine by Voting. Don't shout. There's no voice. [[21:09:48]] For the 250. Decision taken. [[Applause]] Thank you, Your Honor. [[Applause]] Thank you. The whole decision has been made. We can always find compromises. That's very right. I am grateful for the wise offer. Next question. Have a seat, please. Attention! Next question. It's a second reading, it's not anticipated. Draft Act on Measures to Stabilize Ukraine’s Balance of Payments in accordance with Article XI of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade 1994 (second reading), No. Is he ready for us, Arseny Petrovich? Please. Arsenius Petrovich Yacenuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u129	Yes. Dear colleagues! In the process of our consultations, I remind you of what we are talking about. It is the adoption of a temporary law on the introduction of import duties into imported products at rates of 5 percent and 10 percent. What does that mean? This bill is not as fiscal as the balance of payments. We have a critical balance of payments situation, we import more than we export. We realize that this bill is not the best decision, but it is being introduced as a temporary measure to stabilize the balance of payments in the state. What is deleted from this bill, besides what was proposed by the government? The import congregation does not extend to oil, the import congregation does not extend to coal, the import congregation does not expand to medicine, and the importing congregation does not expand to medical products for hemodialization and oncological purposes, as defined by the Cabinet of Ministers. [[Applause]] Now, with regard to the validity of this law. Respectful colleagues, objectively, may have problems with trading partners. That could happen. Because no one will be happy to limit the right to export our partners to Ukraine. That's why we're proposing the next sentence. International financial organizations will come to us. The phrase will be: "The law on the introduction of an import assembly has become effective since the publication of the decision of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to conclude consultations with international financial organizations. Full stop.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u130	Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u131	Julia Volodymyr, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u132	Attention, attention, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u133	Dear colleagues, this is about the fact that the introduction of an import congregation (and we have talked about it repeatedly) is not only contrary to all our WTO positions, it contradicts our virtually agreement between Ukraine and the EU and contradicts, particularly, the EU regulation that foresees the establishment of a free trade zone. To be precise, this is EU Regulation No 374/2014, Article 2, paragraph "d", which explicitly states that if we introduce additional customs payments, this directly threatens the abolition of the free trade zone that we have been given unilaterally. Autonomous trade preferences can simply be cancelled. And so we ask for a slightly different wording, that after the government has announced its agreement with the International Financial Organizations and the EU. That's a lot.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u134	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u135	Dear colleagues! This congregation is established for just one year. Julia Volodymyrna, you have two members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine in your government, I guarantee you that we will sign the decision of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine only if, for example, you or members of your faction and members of your government agree, our government will accept the decision. I don't want to mention individual countries because they're going to blame us for that.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u136	Excuse me. I have already consulted with the EU. Then we'll be accused of being selective. We will consult with the EU as a matter of fact. And the government's decision. They themselves ask not to observe individual countries. And the government's decision will be taken after we hold these consultations. We're not going to publish it otherwise. We have a coalition government and this is a guarantee that we will publish the decision once we have concluded consultations with our international partners. I'm asking you to back it up. And please put to the vote with the rights that have just been marked. Positive, of course, is Julia Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u137	I'll put it to a vote of 1562.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u138	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u139	Excuse me, Self-Help faction, please. Ostrikova, please. Deputy Ostrikov.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u140	It was said that until the conclusion of consultations with international financial institutions. I would like to make a point: with the relevant committee of the European Union. Because we didn't agree on financial institutions.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u141	That's what we just said. You also have a member of the government. Believe me, the phrase is correct. We will never go into a business relationship with our key partner. So I can assure you that together with the government with the coalition ministers and the entire coalition, we will hold consultations and make the right decision. For this decision to be agreed upon by our key partners and international financial institutions. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u142	Dear colleagues, I am putting to the vote a draft bill, draft Act No. 1562, to be adopted on second reading and in general, taking into account the rights that have just been sounded by the Prime Minister of Ukraine. I'll bet you a vote. Please vote. In the second reading and in general, as amended by the Prime Minister of Ukraine (registration number 1562, 1562). [[21:16:57]] For 256 Decision taken. [[Applause]] Thank you, Your Honor. The factions, please. Come on, please. 1563, by the way, they were linked, as far as I could tell. Oh, we talked about it, there was a report. If only the changes and the changes are there, please. Please, Arseny Petrovich, 1563.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u143	This is a binding bill. So we're voting it the same way, with the same line.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u144	Yes. I'm betting on voting with the same line as it is. Registration number of Act 1563, draft Ukrainian Law to be adopted on second reading and as a whole. Vote please, Your Honor. Please vote, second reading and in general. [[21:17:43]] For 263 Decision taken, my dear fellows.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u145	That's better. We're growing, we're growing. We're up to 300 now.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u146	Next, dear colleagues. Registration number.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u147	1557, 1557, Vladimir Borisovich. It's the Budget Code.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u148	1557, yes, draft Act amending the Ukrainian Budget Code. Yes. Please, Your Honor, Arsenija Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u149	Dear colleagues, according to the Budget Code. In addition, I remind you once again that under the Budget Code we are all the amendments that you will excuse. All the amendments made by the committee and agreed by the government are taken into account. And here we have some more suggestions that you've made and that we've accepted. I'll read them under the transcript. In the changes to paragraph "a" of part one of article 87, the words "persons, interns with increased military training" are replaced by the words "persons, high school, boarding school with increased military-physical preparation of state property." Now the second one. In the changes in the positioning of public sector banks, the owner of higher education institutions and scientific institutions provides the same opportunity for cultural institutions. I'll explain. These are the ones who have the funds in the single treasury account that come from the budget, they stay in the ECR, and where they have their own incomes both from education institutions and from cultural institutions, they can be placed in bank accounts. You asked for it, we're going for it. Let's move on. A new bill on the organisation of the budgetary process under military conditions proposes to support our proposals for non-application of the third part of article 4 and article 23 of the Code of Budget, as well as the possibility of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine adopting decisions in agreement with the Supreme Commander of the Armed Forces of Ukraine on the use of budgetary resources for defence with the words "before the beginning of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine". In other words, let me explain. Until the Supreme Council of Ukraine meets, if there is a military situation, the implementation of budgetary expenditure is carried out by the government in agreement with the President of Ukraine. As soon as Parliament meets, Parliament takes decisions on the use of budgetary resources. This applies exclusively to the state of war. Next. Leave the new 24 prim items. 2, 24.3 and 24.4 and a new edition of part two, part two, paragraph 33, of article 29, new paragraphs 7.1, 7.2, 7.3 and 13.1 of part three of article 29 and new paragraphs 6.1, 6.2 and 18 of part four of the code in the first reading. And I would like to ask the Committee on Budget Affairs, together with the Chief Legal Authority of the Apparatus, if the bill is adopted, taking into account what has been stated, when the relevant law is drawn up, to introduce the necessary technical and legal and editorial regulations. We've got everything you've agreed on, and I've read everything under the transcript. And so I would like, given this transcript, to vote in favour of the bill on the basis, sorry, in the second reading and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u150	Please, Oleg Berezuk. Oleg Berezuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u151	Krivenka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u152	Please. It's just a very tight offer. Give the floor to the deputy. Condemned, MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u153	Arsenius Petrovich, this corresponds to what the Coalition Council spoke about and was supported by those present at this meeting. The only clarification. At the beginning of the conversation, you said that all the amendments that were approved by the committee and confirmed by the government. We don't have that formulation "confirmed by the government." All the amendments that have been accepted on the committee are with the additional ones that have now been approved at the coalition meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u154	Come on, please. No, no, we agreed. Please, Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u155	Yvchenka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u156	Dear colleagues, we've talked about decentralization going down to the district today. We take 25 percent of PFCs from villages, villages and cities of district importance, we leave them without means of existence. These budgets now form 90 percent of the income tax on natural persons. Arseny Petrovich, I'm just asking, we're not interfering with the process today, we're not balancing the budget, we're just obliging the area today to recalculate 25 percent directly into the villages, villages and cities of district importance. I'm asking you very much, for this year, we're going to form capable communities and move towards centralization, decentralization. Because today with these changes to the Budget Code you put us in those conditions, I mean the villages and villages, when the issue has been resolved administratively.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u157	Thank you. I'll comment. The formula that we're talking about is going to take into account that they're going to get more money from the formula than they are today. Yuri Vitaliovich Lucenko Yuri Vitaliovich Lucenko
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u158	Dear Mr. Head, Mr. Prime Minister, we still have a request, which has always been made on the budget committee, about the need to transfer the expenditure invested in public capital investments to the regional development fund, because this allows European funds to be involved in the capital construction of the regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u159	And a clear distribution of money.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u160	This position, as far as I know, has also been supported by the government.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u161	Dear Yuri Vitaliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u162	I'd like to take it into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u163	This is counted. It is. The only thing I forgot to read was my esteemed colleagues, and another thing we agreed on. In the changes to part six of article 78, this is according to the Treasury, remember, we had a discussion, set requirements for the Treasury to execute payment orders under the terms of the income of the budget. It's also under the transcript so we don't forget.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u164	Dear colleagues, Lucenka, finish, 10 seconds. Lucenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u165	And the sources of the National Budget Special Fund are 20 percent of the environmental tax.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u166	It's okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u167	It was also a technical decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u168	Then we'll break the general situation, we didn't agree, Yuri Vitaliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u169	Let's work this out separately.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u170	So I'd like to do an extra round one.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u171	Turn around. I'm voting on Project 1557, second reading registration project.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u172	Vladya, Vladya, Vladya, Oleg.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u173	Beresuk?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u174	Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u175	Oleg Beresuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u176	Berezuk Oleg. Oleg Berezuk, turn it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u177	So I'm going to ask for this from Treasury.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u178	Oleg Berezuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u179	In the Treasury, add 2 days to the payment of protected articles and 5 days of unprotected articles from and on.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u180	So add to what I've read the terms. Let's put five days on it. Within 5 days, the income of the budget is spent. There is a proposal to put the vote to the vote and accept it with the appropriate readjustment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u181	Adopt draft number 1557 on second reading and in general, with proposals announced by the Prime Minister of Ukraine. Please put to the vote. Vote please, Your Honor. Please vote. Please vote on what the Prime Minister of Ukraine has announced. All the changes are accounted for absolutely. Vote please, Your Honor. [[21:25:43]] For 231 Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. 1557. Next, please, Your Honor, the bill of action is aimed at. I am. When?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u182	Vladimir Borisovich. Now, dear fellows, we still have transfer pricing.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u183	Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. We still have a number of important questions to consider. Please take your jobs.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u184	Dear friends, we're holding the signal. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u185	Attention!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u186	We work very hard with you. Transfer pricing. I remind you that now the law that works allows you to avoid paying taxes to the most profitable types of business. You and I are adopting a law that taxes and brings out the main oligarchic businesses. Now we propose after consulting coalition factions to add three points to Bill 1264/1 prepared for second reading. Attention! Increase the fine for undeclared transactions of one percent as currently available to five percent of the transaction amount, and remove the ceiling of one hundred percent of the minimum wage. Because fines are strictly formal now. This will be serious financial pressure and responsibility for those who violate tax laws. We also foresee a fine limit of 200 times the minimum wage for transactions for which no documentation and reporting has been provided. I mean, if you didn't report it, you have a fine of 200 per cent of the minimum wage. But if you're gone, you have a fine of 5 percent of the transaction amount. And the third. Set on a permanent basis the application of a comparable, uncontrollable price method for all controlled export transactions, import of goods with a market quota. And here's the question on the stock market, how to determine the stock market. In order not to wave at the markets, coalition factions have offered a list of markets for each group of goods, which must be international markets, determined by the government. Paragraph 21 should be deleted. Please consider the coalition factions. Oleg Beresuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u187	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u188	1264-1. _________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ Mr. Prime Minister, how about we remove all the exceptions that came from chemicals, metallurgy and so on?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u189	This is a decision that we have made, and I reaffirm that all the removals for chemicals, metallurgy are done, so they are all taxed and subject to the bill. That's why I'm asking you to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u190	I'll bet you a vote. The battle is so great to say business by voting with proposals announced by the Prime Minister of Ukraine. 1264-1. Please vote on the second reading, in general, taking into account the proposals made by the Prime Minister of Ukraine. I'll bet you a vote. Be determined by vote, Your Honor. Vote please, Your Honor. 1264-1 with the Prime Minister's proposals, in general. [[Applause]] [[21:29:49]] For 279 Decision taken. [[Applause]] Thank you, Your Honor. Next, please, Arsenius Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u191	Dear Mr. Head and distinguished national MPs. And faction leaders. There is a proposal, as we have worked out the first package of laws, if the heads and heads of factions do not deny it, we would go to the Head, and we now agree on the texts of two more bills – the EU and the optimization of social payments. So that we don't have a discussion in the hall, but that we have the right, the only, agreed decisions. So I very much ask the honourable Vladimir Borisovich to announce a recess for half an hour so that we can walk on the text and for an hour, an hour.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u192	Dear colleagues, I have another bill, one minute, I ask you to stay, it's very important that we vote with you, this is Project 1592, "For the establishment of State aid to victims of public protests and members of their families" (for the source of expenses). The Committee on Veterans and Disabled Persons is the second reading of this bill. Dear colleagues, I ask you to prepare yourself for the vote (registration number 1592). In the second reading, I put it to a vote as a whole. Please vote. [[21:31:52]] For 271 Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. And now, on the basis of the faction, I'm calling the coalition a one-hour break, at 10:30 a.m., we're still working. Thank you, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u193	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm usually calling for the heads of the Coalition factions to break for another hour. Thank you. One hour's break.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u194	Ladies and gentlemen, good morning! As always, I want to apologize for being so tense. Dear National Deputies! Please take up your jobs. Dear National Deputies! And I propose to do the following thing: I now propose to welcome to the birthday of the National Deputy of Ukraine Alona Shkrum. Let's say hello. [[Applause]] Congratulations! [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, we still have a few names. Let's welcome our colleague Nestor Ivanovich Šufrich with his birthday. Happy birthday! [[B in m in s a l in]] Let us also welcome our colleague, Minister of Youth and Sports of Ukraine Igor Aleksandrovič Zhdanov, as well as our colleague and already Minister of Information Policy of Ukraine Yuri Jaroslavovich Stec. [[Applause]] Welcome. [[Applause]] And now I'm asking the deputies to take their seats. Please! And Arsena Borisovich Habakkuk in absentia. Welcome! Dear colleagues, take your seats, please. Let's take your seats. If you want us to vote. Aren't you going to vote for him?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u195	We're putting it to a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u196	Dear colleagues, I ask you to take your seats. I'm going to put one of the laws to the vote. Although I have no right to vote, the voting procedure has already been completed. Please take your seats.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u197	Vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u198	That's what I said.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u199	Yeah, we put, we sit, we vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u200	Please take your seats. Get ready, I'll put a bill to the vote now, but sit down, honourable deputies, so you can vote. Please, dear fellows, take your seats! Yeah, did everyone take their seats? Is everyone ready to vote or not? All of them. I remind you once again that the voting procedure has been completed and I should not have returned. But since there's such an offer to come back, I'm putting it to a vote. Prepared? Careful! In connection with that. One more minute, huh? [[B in m in s a l in]] In view of the fact that I received an application on December 28th at 9.25 p.m. in the vote in favour of the 24th agenda -- Bill No. 1557 -- the People's Front People's MP voted in favour of the MP, Ruslan Lukyanczuk, please ask for a vote, there is video evidence of a violation of the Constitution. It's a violation of the Rules. I beg you then. Is everyone in place? May I put it to a vote? Please put to the vote question 1557. Please vote. Please vote 1557. Vote, Your Honor, 1557. Please vote. Re-voting 1557. 1557 – voting, esteemed colleagues. For 232 Decision taken. Thank you. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, I have a word with you. I'm sorry, I have a statement from two factions, I promised you, about the break of Economic Development and the faction of the Opposition Block. But they asked me to replace it with a three-minute performance. Do you insist on a three-minute performance? Please, three minutes of "The Opposition Block" speech. Please. Yuri Anatoliovich Boyko From where? From the rostrum? Please. But I'm asking very, very correctly that we speak. Thank you. I said that's right.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u201	Your Honor, the government of Ukraine! Dear National Deputies! On February 23 of this year, after the change of power that took place in this parliament, all Ukrainian citizens found themselves and woke up in another country. And all the citizens of our country this year were divided into two parts: Maidan, these events, and after that. If you put it to a vote today and vote on the budget and all the laws you have voted before it, we will be in another country tomorrow, and we will have two parts: to vote on this budget and after the vote on this budget, if you vote for it. [[B in m in s a l in]] As soon as I can. Because this one. Please count this time they took away from me. You are voting today for a budget that affects all the citizens of our country. All the citizens of our country, this budget will also affect pensioners who don't get a pension. This budget will touch local budgets that do not receive funds. This budget will affect all those who will live worse tomorrow. So, dear friends, you are making a tragic mistake today when you vote for this budget. We won't vote for him. But all the political responsibility for this budget will be on you. So, dear friends, honourable national MPs, we think today's vote is a tragic mistake of the ruling coalition. And we think that if you have a responsibility to the people, you're going to review this budget and you're going to make it respond to what the people expect of the people. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u202	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich, thank you. Please, dear colleagues, I ask you to sit in my workplace. I invite the Prime Minister of Ukraine to address the issue, registration number 1564 of the draft Law on Measures to Promote Bank Capitalization and Restructuring. Please, Arseny Petrovich. Your word. Attention, respectable colleagues, attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u203	Dear friends, the country's distinguished deputies. We have one of the key problems of today's Ukrainian financial and economic system is the banking sector. You know that the devaluation of the national monetary unit has undermined confidence in the national banking system. At the very least, this is objectively linked to military action and Russian military aggression. Millions of Ukrainians who have their deposits in the banking system have gone to film them because they're not sure they can get them from the bank tomorrow. What does the government offer to Ukraine? The government is proposing an urgent adoption of a law that provides for an accelerated procedure for the capitalization of all banks in Ukraine. In the current year, the government has already capitalized the State Saving Bank at 11 billion dollars. We also expect that a decision will be taken by the government of Ukraine on the capitalisation of the Eximbank for an additional 5 billion dollars. Next year, we're going to see in the draft Ukrainian State Budget Act 36 billion dollars for the capitalisation of those banks that will meet the criteria set by the law and those criteria are in line with our foreign partners. In particular, we predict 20 billion dollars as additional funds to be allocated to the Deposit Guarantee Fund. And those who fall into guaranteed deposits, that's up to 200,000 dollars, will be able to get their money if the bank is in a difficult financial position. We realize that this is not the final decision, and normally 56 billion dollars, well, it's not enough to support everyone. But this is a very important step that will restore confidence in the banking system and enable the state to capitalize on those banks that meet the criteria of systemicity and that can continue to become banks financially capable of fulfilling their obligations. Bank capitalization will be carried out exclusively in public. And this will send a clear signal to everyone, both shareholders and, above all, bank depositors, that the banking system can go through this difficult period of 2015. That's why we're asking you to support a bill on measures aimed at promoting bank capitalization and restructuring. We cannot act under a valid law, as a valid law provides for procedures for the capitalization of banks that will go on for months. This law provides for quick and rapid decisions on the deposit of capital into banks and for a quick and rapid decision on the deposit guarantee fund. And guaranteeing the citizens of Ukraine that the funds they have on their deposits are within the limits set by law. Please be supportive. The committee also supported this. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u204	Dear National Deputies! I'm betting on a vote of 15, eh, Victor Mikhailovich? Huh? So we've already talked about all the revisions. Victor Mikhailovich Pinzenik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u205	Dear colleagues, I ask you to uphold this law. But there's another 27 revisions. What's that about? If the founder of the Bank of Ukraine is a non-resident or banking group, then the National Bank or the Antimonopoly Committee do not require permission to recapitalize the Bank or increase the capital. Why? First. He was tested when he bought the Ukrainian bank. The other one. It conducts a regular annual test procedure for its own controller. Third. Thank you if anyone else in Ukraine wants to save the bank. Some bank in Ukraine. This amendment is in a comparative table, please, along with this right to vote on this law as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u206	The position of the government, please, and we determine.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u207	The Parliamentary Committee did not support this exercise. But if the honourable Victor Mikhailovich and the Petra Prashenko Block insists, I think we will accept this amendment and vote in favour of the amendment just said "Peter Prashenko's Block." Therefore, there is a request for a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u208	Dear colleagues, I am putting to the vote (registration draft act 1564) – to accept in the second reading and in general, taking into account the amendments announced by Prime Minister of Ukraine and National Deputy Viktor Mihajlovich Pinzenik. I'll bet you a vote. Please vote. In the second reading, and in general, please vote. In the second reading and in general. For 273 Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. Next bill, registration number 1577. Please, Your Honor Arsenius Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u209	Dear colleagues, there have been many discussions about the bill. Generally, these discussions were primarily held by political opponents of today’s coalition, and these discussions had no basis. And in order to disprove those faithless and fictitious statements that have been circulated by political opponents of today's coalition and government and the President, I would like, after our coalition talks, to clearly publish the final draft of Bill 1577, which is agreed upon within the coalition. I'm going to start with the question of paying the employees of the budgetary institutions. There was a proposal to transfer the right to determine the conditions for the salaries of staff members of the budgetary institutions to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. This proposal was not supported by a coalition, and we're going to leave the rules in place to pay the employees of the budgetary institutions. The second is about the maximum wage. We predict that in 2015, in a crisis year, in a difficult year for the whole country, the maximum wage for government officials and budget institutions will not exceed seven minimum wages. In this case, if public authorities take steps to optimize and reduce their numbers, this may not exceed 10 minimum wages. Next. This rule does not apply to participants in an anti-terrorism operation, that is, to our military and military personnel currently in the ATO zone, to the National Anti-Corruption Bureau and the National Anti-Corruption Agency. Next. As far as government companies are concerned. We also had a lengthy discussion on the limitation of wages for employees of state companies. We propose to impose restrictions on employees of state companies at a level of not more than 10 minimum wages excluding government property objects that represent strategic, I stress, strategic interest in security and defence of Ukraine. That is, by excluding strategic enterprises whose list is determined by the Cabinet of Ministers. Next on the index rule.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u210	Julia Volodymyrna wants the word. Please, Julia Volodymyrna, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u211	Please, Julia Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u212	We, Arsenija Petrovich, agreed that the salaries of the officials working there would be made public in state corporations, especially in state monopolies, including in state banks. [[Applause]] Because sometimes, in the face of the country’s total poverty, it amounts to hundreds of thousands of dollars a month, including in businesses such as NAC, it sometimes mourns hundreds of thousands of dollars a month. And that's why we need this to be the norm of the law, and we've agreed with you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u213	All right, you got it. It's accepted, we've spoken. Thank you, Julia Volodymyrically.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u214	Dear Julia Volodymyrically, absolutely correct -- it was our decision to make, I wanted to read it. And so once again, I'm confirming that we're publishing wage levels in all state-owned companies -- that's the right thing to do.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u215	Roger that. Next.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u216	Next. Next rule. Taking into account the economic situation, according to the results of the first half of 2015, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine will approve the order for the indexation of wages, pensions and social benefits. Next.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u217	Oleg Lazko. I'm sorry, there's a clarification in Oleg Laishka. Please, Oleg Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u218	Dear Arsené Petrovich, distinguished colleagues! You and I agreed that this rule would sound like, "In the light of the economic situation, according to the results of the first half of 2015, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine is indexing wages, cash, pensions and social benefits." This is exactly what I'm asking you to support with the economic situation, and the results of the first half of the year, the Kabmin indexes. And so, I want to tell the citizens of Ukraine who still have the patience to wait for the results of the government, from Parliament will be twice in 2015 indexations, pensions and salaries for the results of the first half of December and 1st of December 2015. This is our offer, please support.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u219	Roger that.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u220	Taking into account the economic situation as a result of the first half of 2015, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine will decide to index wages further by text.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u221	That's right. Roger that. Next.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u222	Let's move on. As far as the methodcobinettes are concerned, we also had a discussion or a methodcobinette disposal. We made the following decision. Regional government administrations and local government authorities optimize the network of educational methodical offices and reduce their maintenance costs. Next. The bill, which will be adopted by you, preserves all the rules for admission to educational institutions outside the competition of those children who are now entitled to enter outside the competition, in accordance with current legislation. Free nutrition in vocational and technical schools will be provided to orphans, children with disabilities, children deprived of parental care, and children from low-income families and the government will determine the proper order. All the standards for the Ukrainian Education Act remain unchanged. [[Applause]] The same applies to long-term loans for construction and housing. Also at the suggestion of the Ukrainian National Deputies, the Radical Party and other coalition colleagues are provided for in the Act amending certain laws of Ukraine, which reduces the number of the Attorney General's Office in 2015 to 15,000, from 20,000, to 15,000. [[Applause]] The law remains standard for the maintenance of assistant consultants and for the exercise of parliamentary powers. The rule regarding the provision of representative equipment for our diplomats remains in the law. Retirement benefits for prosecutors are cancelled, and when the prosecutors are released, they receive the assistance of all the other employees in the public service. [[Applause]] With regard to nutrition in health - care facilities, we decided to leave food to all patients in health care. [[Applause]] I would like to emphasize, my fellow Members, that these are hundreds of millions of expenses that still need to be financed and not all at once, I'll say. The same is true of feeding children, feeding children in schools that are located in the 4th Chernobyl area as is currently the case. [[Applause]] A five - year term pension for women in the Chernobyl area remains. The employees of mining companies will be provided with subsidies for the purchase of solid fuel instead of the mechanism under the law. The calculation of pensions, taking into account wages in the national economy, will be preserved as is being done at this time, three years before retirement. As for the number of internal affairs officials, there is a proposal to reduce the number of internal affairs officials from 172 thousand to 152 thousand, by 20,000. [[Applause]] In doing so, I want to point out that we are leaving funding both for the Ministry of Defence and for the Ministry of Internal Affairs and for the National Guard within the limits defined by the Ukrainian National Budget Bill, because it's about the National Guard, the Armed Forces, and the total amount of the budget, dear friends. We started off with you with 80 billion, and we actually got up to 90 billion dollars of national security and defence spending. [[Applause]] This is an unprecedented figure, of which 6 billion are State guarantees for military-industrial enterprises for the acquisition, manufacture and repair of weapons. Further on, after consultations, we left the following option: By June 1, 2015, the premium is unchanged, and since June 1, 2015, this benefit is paid — attention! People with disabilities I and II groups, children with disabilities, orphans, children without parental care, students from low-income families and persons who accompany them and who accompany the disabled and the groups and participants in the fighting. The crew. Next. Dear friends, the 12th: the salaries of the officers of the courts will be left at the present level. Let me remind you that we had a standard that predicted three times the salary increase of the officers of the courts. For 2015, we're leaving a standard where they're at the current level. When it comes to eating, feeding students in the 1-4 classes of orphans, children deprived of parental care -- that's what's been bothering you. [[Applause]] The benefits for those assigned to categories 1 and 2 who suffered as a result of the Chernobyl disaster are provided without regard for income. And sanatorium treatment is given to people who are assigned to the first category of Chernobyl disaster victims.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u223	Arseny Petrovich, there's a minute. Julia Volodymyrna.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u224	Julia Volodymyr, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u225	Dear Arsenius Petrovich, unfortunately, agreed on a completely different line of work for the Chernobyl family. We agreed that for those who refer to the first category, all benefits remain unchanged and are not written here. And secondly, we also agreed that for the second category, all benefits remain unchanged by excluding sanitation. So I would ask that this is exactly how this standard is written. Because the way it's written right now is that they don't keep the benefits here, they just say that they don't have any income. This is not in line with our arrangements. And second of all, what I'd like to point out. Where we talked about the preservation of all the provisions relating to the Education Act, we also agreed that the payment system and the other insurance system would be preserved for scientists. This is a very important addition, we've been told it is.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u226	Let me finish, 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u227	This applies to candidates for science, doctors of science, and so on. I would like to ask that we keep this, or confirm that it is included in another document.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u228	I'd like to remind you, we just might have dropped it. We didn't discuss it in that form, maybe. Yeah? We leave this rule in the law as it is. With regard to your interpretation of the second category of Chernobyl, it is accepted within the limits of the funds set out in the State Budget Act. The first category remains entirely within the scope of the current benefits; the second category, excluding travel, of other benefits within the limits of the funds set out in the State Budget Act. So, honourable colleagues, this subject of quite a compromise, the first step in optimising the benefits. We need to move on to addressability and monetaryization of the benefits. I hope that we will accept this by Parliament. And of course, it's not the radical changes that we could have made, but it's at least the first small step that will allow us to move on the question of optimizing the benefits that only those people who claim to have done so should have, first of all, low-security, disabled people and those categories of citizens that are listed. Therefore, there is a request to vote in favour of the bill, taking into account the proposals made by the coalition. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u229	Thank you, Your Honor Arsenius Petrovich. There was a long discussion, three hours in session. I want to put to the vote the registration draft of Act 1577: the draft Act on Amendments and Recognition in such a way that it has become invalid, some of the legislative acts of Ukraine, has been finalized, taking into account the proposals of Arsenius Petrovich Yatsenuk, which he has just sounded under the stenogram. I ask you to put it to a vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] I beg of you, National Deputy Shuhevich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u230	Mr. Prime Minister! I would ask that the benefits that are now available to political prisoners sitting in the name of Jehovah’s Witnesses be preserved in the benefits. [[Applause]] In order for Ukraine to be independent today for many, many years, to give up their lives, health, which today is a follow-up category in this country.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u231	Thank you, Mr. Yuri. Arsenius Petrovich, is there a comment?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u232	Dear Mr. Shuhevich, with great respect to you and to all political prisoners, I think we can include this. There's a small number of people there, but that's right. This is a restoration of historical justice.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u233	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I am voting on Bill No.1577 with amendments and additions that have been sounded by the Prime Minister of Ukraine as a basis and as a whole. It's 1577. This includes changes and additions announced by the national deputy Shuhevich. Please vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please vote, vote. Please identify yourself by voting with amendments and additions announced by Prime Minister and National Deputy Suhevich as a basis and as a whole. For 256 Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. Next bill (registration No. 1573) It's interesting enough. About the only social contribution. It's interesting enough. And I invite you to the floor of Prime Minister Arsenius Petrovich Yatsenuk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u234	Dear friends, this is one of the key bills, and I would like to mark the extremely constructive position of all factions. This self-help faction has made a number of key proposals to this bill. And the other factions that were involved in the drafting of this law. Today we have the only social contribution of 41 percent. It's an excessive workload on pay. And this will not in any way encourage either the employee or the employer to become a child’s earner. We're taking a risk. At the risk of reducing the only social contribution substantially, we may not get the right income, and we may have a hole in the pension fund. But we hope that the Ukrainian business that wants to facilitate business conditions will accept our common offer and start legalizing and putting wages out of the shadows. Because of the substantial and radical decline in the sole social contribution. The proposal that has been made requires that I read it under the transcript, as it should become the body of the law and an addition to the law passed by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. So I ask everyone to suffer for the formal reading of the very texture of the law. "Since 1.1.2016, on the accrual of earnings (income) to natural persons and/or on the accrual of remuneration under civil law contracts, the rates of the single contribution set out in this section for the corresponding category of payer shall be applied with a coefficient of 0.6 (I will then explain what this means). Since 01.01.2015, on the accrual of earnings to natural persons and/or on the accrual of remuneration under civil law contracts, the single contribution rates set out in this part for the corresponding category of payer shall be applied with a coefficient of 0.4 except for the exceptions provided for in this part. In the event that the payer meets the following conditions at the same time: (a) the total basis for the payment of a single monthly contribution for which the salary, income and/or remuneration for civil and legal contracts is 2.5 times or more than the total average monthly basis for the payment of the sole contribution of the payer for 2014. Or the total single contribution base does not exceed 2.5 times or more of the overall average monthly payment base for 2014 alone. So the payer instead of a factor of 0.4 applies the coefficient calculated by dividing the overall average arithmetic base of the single contribution of the payer for 2014 into the total basis of the single contribution per month, which accounts for the salary, income and/or remuneration for civil law contracts, but in any case the coefficient cannot be less than 0.4; (b) the average wage per company increased by at least 30 per cent compared to the average wage for 2014; (c) the average payment per insured person after applying the coefficient shall be at least 700 dollars; (g) The average wage at the company is not less than three minimum wages. Now I'm going to try to explain it in human language. In that case, if the company is now legally paying all its wages, it is paying the EU on the basis of a valid base. If the enterprise increases the wage fund by 30 percent, if the wage on this enterprise exceeds 3 minimum wages, and if the enterprise fulfils all the conditions defined by this article after the childization (i.e. actually increases the size of the wage), then the enterprise starts to pay a single social contribution of 16.4 percent, not 41 percent, as it is today.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u235	It's going to be a real detinction.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u236	Dear friends, I would very much like your attention, dear colleagues. There are substantial risks. And please let us agree with you. In that case, if our foreign partners — namely, international financial organizations — are warned about this article, (and we have arranged for you to do so), then the standard should be reviewed. Once again, we hope that the state has taken an incredible step on its part. The only social contribution actually decreased from 41 per cent to 16 per cent. [[Applause]] And we believe our business. What business does at a step is not a state, I'm human. Because these are the incomes of the Pension Fund, these are pensions and other social benefits. And it detinies wages, it leads them into a transparent mechanism, it stops paying them in envelopes, it stops using tax pits, and it avoids taxes, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, it deprives Ukrainian citizens of adequate pensions. Just like today's payout in envelopes means that tomorrow this person will live on a minimum pension, not the pension she actually earned. We'll figure it out. There will be administrative difficulties. But this is a real reform, a strong reform. And the success of this reform depends on the real intentions of business and the real dialogue of power and business. So we ask you to support this bill. If there are warnings from our international financial creditors, we will review it. But hopefully we can prove this model right, and hopefully we can increase the income of the Pension Fund. Thank you for your attention. And I would like to vote on the amendments tabled by the committee and agreed by the government.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u237	Thank you, Your Honor. I think we can put to the vote, an extremely important question. I am putting to the vote (registration draft act 1573): the draft Law on the Reform of National Compulsory Social Insurance and the Legalization of the Labour Pay Fund (second reading) – on the basis of and in general, taking into account the Prime Minister's proposals, which were announced under the transcript. Please prepare and vote, distinguished national MPs. Please vote. May I have the vote, Your Honorable People's Deputies? [[01:33:14]] For 268. I think that this decision by Ukrainian businesses and citizens has been waiting for decades when it will be possible to pay an honest salary and to fill out the Pension Fund. So thank you all very much for these ideas, for voting. Dear colleagues, I'd like one more thing, procedural, so we can take you in now. The adoption of laws should take effect from January 1st. And that's an absolute fact. I would ask that these laws be clarified in every law that we have voted on, the next rule that these laws take effect from the day of publication. All the laws that we've adopted today, they're taking effect. Oksana Ivanovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u238	I am. No, let me get this straight, Arsenia Petrovich. Arsenius Petrovich, part of the laws that are passed, takes effect from January 1st. And that's right. But part of the laws say that they take effect on the day following their publication. Thus, we are asked to clarify that these laws take effect on the day of publication in order to be able to publish them. You don't mind about that?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u239	We never object to the offer of the Self-Help faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u240	I'm not non-fractional.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u241	But we'd have to figure out the number of these laws, as far as I can tell. Then I propose that we vote this rule after a forced break, which I have to announce at the demand of factions, because we are now moving on to the development of the 2015 budget. I'm calling a break for an hour, dear colleagues. One hour. Thank you, dear friends for understanding! Thank you for understanding! Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u242	In five to seven minutes, the budget will begin to be reviewed, and so those in the towers, I'm asking you to step into the hall gradually, take your jobs, so that we don't wait too long, so that we can get to the budget immediately. So the people's deputies who are in the towers, I'm asking them to step into the hall, confidently, and take their jobs, and we're starting work in five minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u243	Good evening, Honourable People's Deputies! Good evening, good morning, good morning! I ask you to invite all the national deputies into the hall so that we can continue our work. Please enter the hall for three hours for 26 minutes, almost like a day! Please, distinguished national MPs! Please take your seats, distinguished national MPs, and sit down, please, and you will be able to see that you are ready for work. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u244	Dear friends. Please take your jobs, we can start our work. Dear friends, I ask you to take your seats. Dear colleagues, distinguished national deputies, please take your places of employment. Actually, it's a very responsible moment right now. I ask you to take your seats, dear colleagues. There is now an extremely responsible moment when we have to decide with you about the 2015 state budget vote -- a difficult, difficult document, but we have to look at it today, because it has to be adopted, you know, by 1 January 2015. I'm asking Oleg Berezuk, Self-Help faction. Please take your seats, dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u245	Ladies and gentlemen, the Self-Help faction has decided to invite the Supreme Council to postpone this vote today.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u246	Me, too.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u247	Fellows, pay more attention, pay more attention to your colleagues. One minute. It's their right.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u248	And I ask you, I ask you to put this to a vote, just as the room decides, and so it will be.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u249	Please, let me put it to the vote. Stop, stop, stop. Oleg Lazko. The offer of Oleg Valeriovich Lazko Oleg Lazko's offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u250	Oleg Lazko, "Radical Party." Dear fellow MPs who have just screamed, "It's a shame!".. I don't think you should do that for one reason. Four o'clock in the morning, we're all in the hall. And we have to thank those who work for their position and for the interests of the country. And that's why everyone has the right to an offer. The faction is our colleagues, worthy people, from the Self-Help faction further an offer that has the right to life, but cannot be supported. That's why I'm proposing. Because, in fact, colleagues, it's not funny, and the fact that you and I are sitting in the hall at four o'clock in the morning is a testimony to the extreme seriousness of the situation in our country. And that's why we, the responsible people, are sitting here because we have to vote. So with all due respect, Your Honor, Volodymyr Borisovich, under the Rules, we put a motion for a vote -- and we don't support and we work and we don't leave!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u251	Dear friends, there is the offer of our colleagues to our esteemed colleagues from the Self-Help faction. I'm voting on this proposal. Members, please identify yourself: begin. [[B in m in s a l in]] Tomorrow, yes, tomorrow, you heard. Tonight, tonight, the offer of a hearing for the evening. I'd like you to determine by vote. Please identify yourself with this proposal. About-64 It's not a decision you make, dear friends. Of course, there are colleagues who, well, there is such a position. Dear friends, I think that no less than the entire country is waiting for our decisions today, no less than our decisions are waiting for the whole world, because we are on the verge of the end of the year and the beginning of the year in which we need to finance all the expenditure articles, and this is a very important question. So I would like to take you up on the question of Prime Minister Arsenius Petrovich Yatsenuk's State Budget. Dear Arsenius Petrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u252	Dear friends! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! I'm going to start by saying that objectively, like all the previous budgets that have been adopted in these walls, are far from perfect. And that is why when we adopt the draft Ukrainian State Budget Act, we provide for a clear rule regarding the mandatory review of the Ukrainian State Budget Act no later than February 15, the following year. We'll adjust it. Depending on the outcome of the negotiations with international financial organizations. And as we discussed the adoption of the draft State Budget Act, we all agreed. A series of articles will also change depending on how we correct the income and expenditure and how we deal with international creditors. I'd like to start with the main -- what was the purpose of this State Budget Act. The key objective is to finance national security and defence. We're planning an unprecedented amount for national security and defense. The numbers are next. There are 80 billion dollars that go directly to security and defence. [[Applause]] In addition, your colleagues, 1.8 billion dollars that we will pay to all the mobilized people who will be called to the ranks of the Armed Forces and will protect Ukraine. In addition, other security and defence agencies add an additional 2.9 billion. And an additional 6 billion state guarantees to Ucroborprom State to acquire new military equipment and repair for the Ukrainian Armed Forces. In fact, the total amount of funding for national security and defence costs is 90 billion dollars. I think we can handle this. It's going to be hard for us to raise revenue in a modern Ukrainian economy. Remember, we lost 20 percent of the nation's economy. And 2015 is going to be a very difficult year for economic stability. That's why it's going to be a joint task: to make the state budget revenue and to properly meet the state budget expenditure and to fund the Ukrainian Armed Forces and the Ukrainian soldiers. With regard to the additional proposals that were made during the discussion of the draft law. Including our self-help partners. The government budget's income from 3G licenses was raised. Let me remind you that the government has announced a competition. And we're making sales revenue from this radio frequency resource, the minimum quantity is going to be 6 billion dollars. If we can get more money, all of these costs come in an article that has a total of 17 billion dollars, that's the cost of privatization. The second question, which concerns another source of government budget revenue, is dividends from state companies. Let me remind you that a decision has been made on the distribution of the dividends of Ukrnafta, so we include a total of 1.78 billion dollars in government budget revenues. [[Applause]] Next. Dear colleagues. As for the 4.5 billion dollars that go to capital costs. Of these 4.5 billion dollars, at your common offer, 3 billion dollars goes to the regional development fund. [[Applause]] In particular, I would like to point out that when we allocate funds to the Regional Development Fund, we want to focus on infrastructure projects in the countryside, which we need to do. [[Applause]] In addition, respected colleagues, 500 million dollars, decided jointly, would be sent to the construction site of Ohmatdit Hospital. [[Applause]] As far as 1 billion dollars left. Thus, according to the rules of the Budget Code, such a billion capital deposits are made, the distribution of such funds is carried out by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, in agreement with the Committee on Budgets. This will enable funding, including districts, and will enable us to change at least some life in certain areas of Ukraine. With regard to those requests that have been made and where we will review and amend the draft State Budget Act. We have a problem with the city of Kiev. Thus, in amending the State Budget Act by February 15, we will take into account a $1.9 billion grant to the city of Kiev for the implementation of the commitments made. Particularly in the defence budget, and this also applies to national security issues -- the Ministry of Emergency Situations, 200 million dollars for the acquisition of fire-fighting techniques for domestic production. Other suggestions. We had an underfunded article on cancer and haemodialysis. I would like to state that we will increase funding under this article. When the Ukrainian State Budget Act is being finalized, it is very important. And we will certainly consider these suggestions. With regard to other proposals, I would like to point out that the revenue and expenditure of the state budget is subject to correction by Parliament. The budget committee will duly calculate everything, signed. On February 15th, you and I will make appropriate changes to the bill. Another article on the drafting of the Ukrainian State Budget Act also raised questions about the acquisition of digital mammography and ultrasonic diagnostic devices for domestic production. On February 15, we'll also take that into account. In principle, I also, sorry, forgot. This is about spending on the Central Election Commission. We're transferring 30 million dollars to the "Leading and Control of Elections and Referendums" programme. The following year we will have an election to the local councils, so the general article translates 30 million into an appropriate program. Actually, that's all you have to consider. And there is a request for the adoption of the Law on the State Budget, with the corresponding tasks that have just been given, and you are in agreement. And we're going to be working with our international creditors out of seven numbers, and I'm going to keep you informed of the changes that need to be made by February 15. The report was completed.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u253	Thank you. Please. One minute, I'll go like this. Oleg Bérezük, then Julia Timoshenko, then I'll give it to the non-factional.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u254	Dear Prime Minister, please also take into account the view of the Naftogazu deficit, taking into account the corresponding change in price to gas, as well as the revenue.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u255	It's all right, isn't Speak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u256	A corresponding income and a cost. I'm sorry, I just couldn't finish. So when you look at the price of gas, you're going to have to look at the deficits and you're going to have to look at the revenue that the state will get from the market price of gas, and you're going to have to take into account the costs that will be associated with the address subsidy.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u257	Thank you. Please, Chumak, a national MP. And, Julia Volodymyrna, I'm sorry, Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko. Then it's Chumak.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u258	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to say that the Fatherland faction supports all the innovations that have been added to the budget that the Prime Minister has just announced. We're ready to vote for them. Just like we voted in favour of those bills that we voted on literally here a few decades ago. So we're the same people in this process. But, dear friends, the state holds on to certain important things, principles, laws, procedures, values. And I just want to go to everyone right now by dividing the budget vote in those parameters that we agreed on with you, and I should be honest to say that after the vote, after the laws that changed the income and expenditure portion have been radically altered. We don't have a budget on our hands right now, that's true, and every deputy knows that. In addition, the laws that we voted on.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u259	Ten seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u260	The right laws, they're the basis of the income and expenditure, but they're not signed by the President today, they're not published, and we can't include them in the budget. Our offer is very clear. Before morning to finish Minfin's project.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u261	Thank you, Julia Volodymyrna. I'm asking Chumak, a national MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u262	Dear colleagues, good night. I would like to say that we live in difficult times. And really, the government needs to look for, look for money in the budget. I suggest we find some other funds, maybe not very large, but I hope they'll be useful to the government. Paragraph 5 of the Final Budget Regulations stipulates that members of the Cabinet of Ministers and the National Deputies will receive a monthly salary of only one month. I want to say that it's a little bit, in my opinion, not consistent with the principle of social justice. So I think I made an amendment to this article. And I propose to present it as follows: "To the President of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the National Deputies of Ukraine, the Chief of Administration of the President of Ukraine and his deputies, the Chief of Staff of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and his deputies, the Secretary of the Council of National Security and Defence and his deputies, the Attorney-General of Ukraine and his deputies, the Prime Minister of Ukraine and other members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the civil servants of the first and second categories of ministries and other central authorities of the executive branch other than those who are assigned to take part in the Counter-Terrorism Operation, the Head of the National Bank of Ukraine and its deputies, the judges of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine and the Supreme Court, and the judges of the Supreme Court of Justice of the United States of Justice, the President of the United States of America, the President of the United States of America, the President of the United States of America and the United States of America, and the Vice-Presidents of the United States of the United States of America of America, the United States of America of America, and the United States of America of America of America of America of America, and the United States of America of America of America of America of America of America of America of America of America of America of America of America of America of America of America of America of America of America of America of America of America of America of America of America of America of America of America of America of America, and the United States of the United States of the United States of the United States of America of America of America of America, and the United States of the United States of America, and the United States of America, and the United States of the United States of the United States of America of America of America of America of America of America of America of America of America of America of America, of America of America, and the United States of America, and the United States of America, and the United States of America. " I think that Ukrainian citizens will appreciate that Ukraine's growing political leadership should stretch its belts, not just its citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u263	Thank you. Please, Yuri Lucenko. It is already voted in those laws that we voted on.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u264	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! I would like to consider today the special situation of the hall, our government has been chosen too recently, and we need to consider its unwillingness to submit documents that have been fully verified for months. That's why the Peter Dust Block faction is asking everyone to establish today by a positive vote. There can only be one result of today, the country and the world are looking at us, whether there is a coalition in this room or not. And I'm asking you to show me what it is. And the second question. Is the coalition capable of reforming? We've been showing that we can do it all day, please show me again.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u265	Let me finish 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u266	Once again, I ask you to prove that there is a coalition in this country and the ability to reform it. Positive voting even under these conditions.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u267	Thank you, Yuri Vitaliovich. Please, Ivanchuk Andry Volodymyrovich, the People's Front, and then the opposition block for a minute, then the non-fractional one. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u268	Dear Mr. Head, Mr. Prime Minister, distinguished national MPs, you know, I'm saying that "the bed of the hammer is breaking the barrel of honey," we can't afford that. We've worked so hard, we've taken into account a lot of good comments from members of the coalition. And there's only one thing left to do, to adopt the 2015 budget, to prevent the underfunding of the defence complex and to ensure the protection of our country. The People's Front faction will vote in favour of this budget and will call on all members of the coalition and concerned deputies to support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u269	Thank you. Opposition block, please, Royal.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u270	Ladies and gentlemen of the people! You know this room has seen different things, but you have not seen one vote in favour of the budget, as they say today, a small Ukrainian Constitution for the next year without having this document on our hands. But at the same time, I want to say that this is not reform -- these are the experiences, the experiments that you want to put on people, the citizens of Ukraine. We have all been waiting in this document to see a reduction in the costs of judges, prosecutors, the Cabinet of Ministers, the Office of the President and the Supreme Council, but we have seen only one way you have decided to reduce the cost of human beings in our country. And you have to understand that after that, the budget genocide can happen so that someone will protect people in Ukraine and someone will fight for our independence. You're cutting people's pensions today, and you're cutting their salaries twice.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u271	Thank you. Please, Oleg Lazko, the Radical Party and we'll work.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u272	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Save us, Lord, from such defenders as they have just done. You've already saved the country so much that we've lost Crimea temporarily, on Donbassa war, the deaths of civilians, the deaths of our military personnel and everything because of you. And so sit still and keep quiet, billionaire advocates, keep your mouth shut. Take the billions of Janukovich gangs to the budget, and that will be your best contribution to the construction of our country. As far as the budget is concerned, I'll tell you this: I've seen a lot of things in my life, too, but I haven't seen them today. Why? Because there has never been a situation like this in the country today. And that's why we like the budget, whether we like it or not, and personally I don't like much, but I understand one thing: there will be no budget, there will be no country protection, there will be no money for the army, there will be no.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u273	Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u274	There'll be no money to fight the armada, with Putin's ora. And so, we want to protect the country, we want the country to stop spilling blood. I want to tell you that the Radical Party faction, conscious of its responsibility to the country, to the citizens, to the electorate, to the history, to the military, we will vote in favour of this budget. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u275	Heroic glory! Final word to the Prime Minister of Ukraine. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u276	Dear Ukrainian national deputies, I would like to begin with the amendment of our colleague Chumak. There is a proposal for these categories of posts that are defined to be included in a bill that has been voted by Parliament to limit wages.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u277	Absolutely. So secondly, after Naftogaz, in the current year, we sold Naftogaz for 110 billion. In 2015, we predict a threefold reduction in Naftogazu subsidies to 32 billion. This grant will be removed from Naftogazu in the event that we raise prices to market conditions and then the price rise income will go directly to subsidies for Ukrainian citizens who will need assistance in connection with price increases and tariffs. This is expected to be between 15 million and 20 million citizens. And last but not least, dear colleagues, there is a proposal: to vote in favour of the draft Ukrainian State Budget Act, taking into account all that has been said under the transcript, to correct the indicators according to the income base, to apply the capital costs in case of necessity as a balancing article and committee, to anticipate the corresponding changes, to sign on to the Head, and on February 15th we, colleagues, will adopt a new draft of the State Budget Act. Therefore, I would like to vote and continue to work for the people of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u278	I'm betting on the bill number one thousand. I'm betting on a bill for the budget. For the budget, colleagues! One minute, non-faction exchange. Take your seats! The Postfaction Exchange, the Stock Exchange is non-factionable. Take your seats, please. Borislav Bereza, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u279	Borislav Bereza, 213 District. Mr. Prime Minister, you are right: the budget is needed by the country. Moreover, the rights and Mr. Ljasko, who says that there has never been such a situation in the history of Ukraine. The rights of Julia Vladimirovna Timoshenko, who said that a budget should be adopted but could not be accepted without having seen it. Even more so are the self-help gentlemen who said they were willing to vote for the budget. And I understand that they want to see him, too. So we're all ready, Mr. Yatsenuk, to vote for the budget. Show us the budget, and we will vote for it. Show him to us here, put him in our hands. And the main thing is, as long as you don't say "halva," there's no sugar in your mouth.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u280	Guys, I'd like to ask you all to take your seats. And if someone thinks it's just a game, we're all deeply wrong about who thinks it is. We have an extremely responsible moment: to make decisions, to sign and to finance. I am asking everyone to support, I am putting to a second-read vote and, as a whole, draft Law No.1000, as amended by the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the State Budget Act 2015. Please vote. In the second reading and in general. Please vote, Your Honor, the State Budget Act, as amended by the Prime Minister of Ukraine. I'm betting on the vote and I'm asking you to support everyone. We know how responsible this is. Vote. About-233 Decision taken. [[Applause]] I congratulate everyone on this.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u281	Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-28-m0.u282	Dear friends! We have one more question, we need to vote. Colleagues, we need to vote on one technical issue. It's about getting Bills 1264-1 and 1564 that we voted to take effect from the day they were published. If you don't mind, I'm going to put this matter to our vote right now. Vote? Please. It's important. Please take up your jobs. This is a technical issue that needs to be voted on. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please vote. Vote please, Your Honor. About what comes from January 1st. Please vote. Thank you, Your Honor. I'd like to announce, dear colleagues. The next session, the plenary session of the session closed. Thank you all. Thanks for the job. Welcome to the coming New Year! Good health and good health to all. Success and well - being.
