ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national MPs! Please sit at your workplace and prepare for registration. Please turn on the "Council" system and register the national MPs. [[10:09:06]] There were 240 national deputies registered in the hall. The morning session is open. Dear colleagues, traditionally, I would like to welcome the national MPs who are celebrating their birthday today. This is Zelik Ruslan Bogdanovic, Ostapchuk Viktor Mikolaiovich and Chertkov Yuri Dmitrovich. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, in accordance with article 229 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, we have a "hour of questions to the Government" on Fridays from 10 to 11 a.m. I inform you that today the Cabinet of Ministers is conducting its exit meeting in Winnica. That is why the first representatives of government members are present today. At the same time, in view of the fact that the subject is important enough, we have a social pay organization in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Donetsk, Luhansk region, and we have a minister of social policy and a job ready to speak on this issue. I, my dear fellows, propose as follows. Listen to the minister of social policy and the work of Ludmila Leontievna Denisov. Then I'd ask the treasury manager to be ready to report? Ready to report, too. And I would ask the secretariat to call on the deputy head of the National Bank, because the head of the National Bank is on a mission so that we can also get the information we need from these issues. And after that, we will have the opportunity to ask questions both to the Minister of Social Policy and to work, as well as to all the other heads of ministries and departments who are here in the government's bed. No objection, dear colleagues? None. I invite you to the parliamentary rostrum of the Minister of Social Policy and the work of Denisov Ludmila Leontiyevna. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u2	Dear national deputies, good day to you! I want to inform you first of all about the state of social pay that is now in the state. I want to assure you that in these difficult conditions where the government is now working, where the Supreme Council is now working and the Ukrainian people are living, we are still providing timely social benefits and pensions, and assistance to families with children, and other social benefits. As far as pensions are concerned. By now we have funded over 65 percent of the monthly application for all payments in all regions of Ukraine. The payment is made on time, and we financed the payment of pensions on May 18 for pensions through the post office. Government assistance to families with children The first tranche, which amounts to 3 billion 300 million, was funded on time by the Treasury of Ukraine on May 8. Today, 93 percent of our citizens have received payments either to banks or to postal offices. The payment is still in progress. With regard to the assistance provided by social insurance funds. On May 1, unfortunately, there was still a debt of 615 million dollars. You remember that this debt was on February 1st and March 1st. We're counting on the debts that took place in the last few months. And there is a new assignment to this day, but the new assignment is practically paid. And I have this feeling that we're going to fund all the assignments in May on time and this month. This is about insurance payments that are regressive at the expense of an accident fund. As far as the temporary disability fund is concerned, there are some questions about the financing of sanatorium treatment. But we think that, first of all, we have to pay in such difficult terms for insurance payments, we have to provide, and then we have to provide for consumers, we have to pay for sanitation, and we have to understand that there's also the wages of these workers who provide sanitation. As far as debt on wages is concerned. So the debt in the chambers of employment is now declining, and relative to April 1st, it's decreased by 7.5 percent and it's 541 million by May 12th. There is a debt for Montenegro's ODA on budget payments. There is such a problem that budget assignments are simply lacking. But I know that the Ministry of Finance is now solving this problem, and that debt will be repaid. There is a debt of 700,000, which is calculated by Kiev, Kiev. These are debts on salaries for the Crimea sanatorium. Kiev, located in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. This money is listed, and they depend on the accounts of this sanatorium, this facility in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, they can't use them for whatever reason you know. As far as unemployment is concerned. On May 8th, 471,000 citizens registered as unemployed in our country. 377,000 people are receiving unemployment benefits. The May 8 vacation was, like today, about 50,000 vacancies. The maximum aid that our citizens now receive, if they're unemployed, is 4 thousand 772 bracelets, at least that's not the insured person's, 544 bracelets. To date, the Crimea has left the Autonomous Republic of Crimea unorganized, not for the families of military personnel, 8 thousand 558 — 4 thousand 313 families. And I'd like to tell you what the current situation is with payments in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, in the Donetsk Region and in Lugansk. And I want to switch to Russian. I know that criminals see the "RADA" channel, and I want them to listen to me and find out that information. With regard to the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. You all remember that on 16 March there was a referendum, so-called, and since 17 March, the Autonomous Republic of Crimea has not been able to receive funds through the banking system or through the treasury system or through the post offices, mail transfers to Ukrainian citizens who are in the territory of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the city of Sevastopol. And these citizens, who are protected by Ukraine, are 2 million people. To date, pensioners who are still in the territory of the occupied Crimea and Sevastopol cannot obtain our payments unless they leave this occupied territory. We have simplified the procedures for receiving both pensions and social assistance and other benefits through social insurance funds. That in order for a person to receive such payment, or to be granted payment in the event of an insurance or birth of a child, or to retire on the mainland, only if he provides a document certifying his identity. No other documents are required. We have an electronic register of all recipients in the Ministry of Social Policy, the Pension Fund of Ukraine, and we use this register. Then we request paper documents to ensure that such a pension is located at the place of temporary residence of citizens who have temporarily moved from the occupied territories. Under the Occupation Act adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the occupied territories, on the protection of the rights of citizens, the Ministry of Social Policy has established procedures to ensure the payment of pensions to those citizens who have decided to remain in the territory of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and Sevastopol in order to be able to come and receive their payments again to the mainland. This applies both to payments at the birth of the child and to pensions and other social benefits. To that end, a person needs to come to those areas that will be defined in this order in the Herson region and make a corresponding statement that he wants to receive a pension in that post office in the mainland or through a bank account. After that next month's treatment, i.e. if he returns in May, he will be credited with a second social payment from June to his bank account, which he will open in the mainland, or through the post office of which he will be notified. Thank you. As for the people, how many of us have come. Of these, 25 per cent are pensioners, of whom 2,000 25 are paid on time as soon as they apply, whether they have a pension or not. The question also applies to families with children, and we have 1,000 244 families, all of whom receive social benefits and receive low income.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u3	Continue the time, please, for the performance.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u4	Thank you very much. Childbearing assistance is provided. Other areas. Regrettably, so far, calls have been made to the Government Contact Centre from the Donetsk Region to people and to Lugansk that they want to move to other regions. And I think that you and I should, of course, share with you all the conditions that we have on the arrival of the Crimeans and on providing them with social benefits for those who will come from the areas of Donetsk and Lugansk today. And we promise that to the people, and we will. And today, for example, the Premoga sanatorium, which is run by the Ministry of Social Policy, just in the daytime, came eight people from Slavyansk, we placed them, and they are under the care of the Ministry of Social Policy.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u5	Please don't stop the show.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u6	As far as the Luhansk region is concerned. To date, all pensions have been funded by 68 per cent and paid. And so far, there are no problems in the Lugansk area with these payments. Similarly, full benefits to families with children have been financed, and we will continue to provide them equally. There is a major problem with pensions and social benefits in the Donetsk region. It must be said that pensions were funded by 65 per cent and social benefits by 98 per cent. But unfortunately, there is a problem with delivering these payments to people. I have to say that the team that works in the Donetsk region, which works with the Government and the Stock Exchange and the Privatbank, and the postal services, they all work together and try in a timely fashion. But sometimes it's a delay, for example, in regions like Slavyansk, where you know, you burned the Pension Fund, the Pension Fund's office. It's in Melitopol. We have problems in Dmitrov, Red Lyman, Zhdanovka, Constantinovka, Debaltsev, Kirovsky. But we're transporting it all on bronzes, on BTRs, and we're delivering it. But today's situation has unfortunately been complicated in the Donetsk region. And I think the head of the Treasury of Ukraine will say that. I don't think we're going to be able to make payments under the conditions that Donbass, the Donetsk region, is in particular, because we just can't actually do that. We can, as they are listed, there are, but if the work of the National Bank and Treasury is blocked, no payments will be made. Therefore, I ask you to pay attention to this situation and how to respond to it. I would very much like to see that situation in Donetsk today not spread throughout Ukraine. This depends, among other things, on respectable people's deputies, on you and on you. I am very much asking for support from those who are now there. Once such seizures by the authorities and bank payment services have been terminated, we will resume the financing of pensions there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u7	Thank you. The head of the Treasury of Ukraine, Tears of Tetjana Jaroslavovna, please, is invited. Then there will be an opportunity to ask questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u8	Dear Alexander Valentinovich! Dear National Deputies! Dear citizens of Ukraine! For two months, Ukraine’s treasury service in Donetsk and Lugansk worked in a very tense situation in connection with separatist activities of certain bandits, so to speak, terrorizing and terrorizing these areas. We spent all our expenses on a regular basis, primarily on protected expenses, paying wages, pensions, child care, medicines, utility bills, and so forth. Some delays were due to the shut-off of city software when separatist attacks took place. I would like to thank all the employees of the Treasury of Donetsk and Luhansk, who, despite the military conditions of work, go to work every day and do their duties honestly. But the fact that took place this morning has made it conditional on the local government of the National Bank of Ukraine to pay a considerable amount of cash. In the event that such a condition is not fulfilled, it means that the administration will be cleared. Given that the Treasury of Ukraine is a full participant in the electronic payment system, and for security purposes, the National Bank of Ukraine shut down the electronic payment system this morning, allowing the authorities of the Treasury of the Donetsk Region to exercise their full powers. Thanks to the terrorist activities of separatists today, there is a risk of non-payment of these protected expenses for today's day: payment of wages to miners – 215 million (today's 9th morning), payment of pensions to pensioners within three days – 193.4 million dollars, payment of advance wages, assistance to children, protected expenditure articles, i.e. payment of medicines for 150 million dollars. If these actions are continued by separatists, if they continue to terrorize the whole of Donbas, including the Luhansk region, this is deliberately done by their actions and concessions, the Treasury will not be able to pay these payments constantly. So I'm addressing representatives of the so-called "Donetsk People's Republic": stop terrorizing the population of Donbas, allow socially vulnerable people to receive pensions, wages and child pay at the right time. This is the unprotected type of population that, apart from those pitiful copies of the budget, is nowhere else to receive its income. I am addressing my colleague, Head of the Russian Federal Treasury, Roman Evgenyevich. Roman Evgenjević, you must reason with your President Putin to put an end to the separatist acts in Ukraine in order to do so. We are colleagues with you to ensure that the Treasury of Ukraine fulfils its duties in a timely manner. I'm addressing the citizens of the Donetsk region. Ukraine’s Treasury Service will take all measures to ensure that you receive pensions, wages, and other protected articles at the proper time. If we just need the National Bank of Ukraine to include an electronic payment system, we're going to have to spend all the protected expenses in the first place. We have all the Treasury employees, despite difficult military conditions, who are not evacuated and constantly, work and are on the job every day. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u9	Thank you. The word is given to the first deputy head of the National Bank of Ukraine, Krotuk Volodymyr Leonidovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u10	Dear Alexander Valentinovich, distinguished national MPs! The National Bank in general controls the situation in the Ukrainian banking system. Our main task now is to ensure the region's viability through the banking system by serving the business organization's subjects, other businesses, organizations and the population. We understand that stopping the banking system can lead to economic and social collapse. Under the increased control of the National Bank, there are banks operating in the eastern regions of our country. Today’s problem in these regions is the creation of conditions for the safe operation of banks, the preservation of life, and the health of bank workers and bank customers. These problems are acute today in the eastern regions, and since there is a targeted attack on branches and bank ATMs. In particular, a targeted attack takes place at the branch office and at the ATMs of Privatbanka. By the way, last night, a private bank car with a cash of 1.5 million dollars was captured. There have been similar experiences in other regions. In the eastern regions, there have been more than 20 attacks on bank structural units today, more than 100 ATMs damaged or destroyed, and thus more than 13 million dollars in damage to banks. Such actions threaten the lives and health of bank employees, investors, and may lead to a halt in the payment of pensions and salaries in the eastern regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u11	I'm sorry, Vladimir Leonidovich, the eastern regions are not specific, yes. Please, Donetsk region.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u12	Donetsk Region and Lugansk Region. Well, more of this has been happening in the Donetsk region lately. In particular, yesterday the separatists made an unwarranted demand for the pre - Dutch territorial administration of the National Bank of Ukraine to transfer large amounts of funds to separatists. If not, it was a threat to clean up the area. We evacuated people. And this morning, the district office is working. The payment system is on, and the banks in the region are working. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u13	Dear colleagues, please, let's do this, you'll be sitting next to the microphone. I also ask that Mr. Butza's first Deputy Secretary of Defense also sit in the front row. Because I think there's going to be a lot of questions about the military's financial and technical security. I'm asking you, dear fellows, let's sign up for the question, we have time for this. The only summary of the leaders ’ statements was a rather dangerous situation in eastern Ukraine in the Donetsk region, Luhansk. And the actions of separatists and terrorists, first and foremost, threaten, you see, not only the life and health of our citizens but also their welfare. That is, the possibility of paying pensions, wages is blocked. And, first of all, I say again, these terrorist, separatist actions are taking on our citizens. And I'm going to turn to the residents of Donetsk, Luhansk. We need to support an antiterrorist operation, and we need to put an end to both terrorists and separatists in Donetsk and Lugansk. And now, dear colleagues, I ask you to sign up for the performance. I'm sorry to ask you a question to the members of the government or to the deputy director of Nazbank. Please turn on the "Race" system. The word is given to the People’s Deputy Laszka. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u14	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. I want to address the people of Donetsk and Lugansk. Dear citizens, the inhabitants of these areas! Today, acts by terrorists and separatists in the Donetsk and Lugansk areas are really threatening you to stop receiving pensions and wages. Donetsk and Lugansk galleys will have no wages, no unloaded products. Our pensioners will be out of pensions. Mothers with children will be left luganian and Donetsk without help, other social benefits. So task number one for today is to unite efforts to drive terrorists with weapons from our Donetsk and Lugansk countries. Because these bandits who kill people, they take you out of your pension, they take you out of your salary, they deprive you of your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u15	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u16	They deprive you of the opportunity to receive support from the Ukrainian State. So I ask all the people in the Donetsk and Luhansk region to join forces with the Ukrainian army, with the law enforcement officers. Stop the terrorists. Because every terrorist, it's a stolen pension, deprived of your wages, help, it's instability, it's blood, it's tears, it's the absence of a peaceful sky above your head. Our job is to keep Donbas quiet, light, calm, so that people can work.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u17	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I will remind you that we are asking questions to the members of the government. Please give the floor to the national deputy of Makeenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u18	May I have the people's delegate, Smithuh?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u19	Please turn on the microphone of the people’s delegate, Smittuh.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u20	Thank you. I have a question for the deputy head of the National Bank of Ukraine. Today, there are citizens under the Supreme Council of Ukraine who asked me what is going on with the Forum Bank and what is the fate of the investors. But I think it's not just Forum Bank, where the National Bank has established a temporary administration, and other administrations. So I'd like to ask the National Bank to either provide information in the press about what's going on, or inform citizens not to get excited, not to stand in the Pitts, including in front of the Supreme Council. So, please tell me what's going on with the Forum Bank, and how are the investors, our citizens, protected? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u21	I would like to assure you that the National Bank is constantly cooperating and meeting with bank investors. In particular, yesterday, I personally met with the Forum bank's investors and provided appropriate explanations, so to speak, on their questions. The point is that the Forum Bank is today declared insolvent by the National Bank, and the bank has been transferred to the Fund's Authority to guarantee the investments of natural persons. So let's say that today there's no relationship between the National Bank and the Forum Bank, except that we're getting reports on the bank's activities. As far as I know, the Deposit Guarantee Fund is working with potential investors today. And in about a week, in a week, he'll decide on the admission of such investors if they meet the deposit guarantee fund's requirements, until he participates in the forum.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u22	The word is given to the national deputy Greenevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u23	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I would like to raise the questions of students who are now studying at other universities and who have come from Crimea. Ukraine’s higher educational institutions welcomed them. But there are problems that cannot be solved by the higher education institution itself and the Ministry of Education, which requires government interaction. And my question is more likely to be with the Ministry of Finance. We have faced such two problems. The paying students who have already paid for their studies, for example at Tavrian University, are now studying at another higher education facility, and this higher education facility, because they are payers, needs them to be paid again. Clearly, they have nothing to pay for. Given such a special situation that we have an occupation of the territory and they have come from this territory, is it possible to take a decision from the government, where they will be allowed to report because they paid for it in Crimea.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u24	Do you understand the question? Please turn on Minfin's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u25	You have raised a very important question. Thank you for asking that question. I think the Ministry of Education and I are going to look at it over the week and figure out how to do it. I think we need to look at it really positively, from the point of view of the material condition of such students in order to ensure their learning. We promise from Minoswita that we will consider this within a week.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u26	The word is given to the national deputy Geidosh.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u27	Istvan Highdosh, the Sovereign European Ukraine. Dear Mr. Head, I have a question for the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine or for a representative of this Ministry. I want to say that the issue of education is very important for the Hungarian community of Ukraine, including the issuance of bilingual documents in Ukrainian and Hungarian on incomplete secondary and secondary education. As a national deputy, as well as representatives of the Hungarian national minority, I have repeatedly addressed this issue with the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine. The branch office assured us that the matter would be resolved positively. But as we can see, the school year is coming to an end, and the question. The problem remains unresolved. Please tell me, what is the situation on this issue? I believe that the solution to this issue will be to demonstrate the loyalty of the authorities to the Nazis and one of the next steps on Ukraine's European integration path. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u28	Please ask the representative of Minosveita to give an answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u29	The Ministry and Science are working on this issue right now and we're going to answer in a week about the possibility of printing the testicles in two languages.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u30	Please be brief. The national MP Raupov asks questions. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u31	Please give the floor to the People's Deputy Rosenco Paul. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u32	Turn on the microphone of the people's deputy Rosenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u33	Paul Rosenco, Vitaly Caller's Faction. I would like to pay attention to you now, Alexander Valentinovich, and to the distinguished representatives of the government, particularly the Minister of Social Policy, the head of the Treasury, who unfortunately in this campaign today is informational, which is open against Ukraine in the east of Ukraine, it appears that it is the Ukrainian authorities that have blocked all social benefits, including pensions, and other social assistance. And if you notice that Separatists are now driving around all the mines telling fairy tales to miners that it is we, Kyiv, who are detaining them today from paying wages. That's why I demand, Alexander Valentine's Day, a more active information policy than government, representatives of district government administrations, from representatives of district government.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u34	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u35	So that people don't sit in offices, but hold press conferences, meet people, work groups, and tell people that it's because of the actions of the provocateurs in eastern Ukraine, because of the actions of separatists and so-called republics today that people can't get a pension. The information policy of the government should be strengthened. I call again on the government to immediately make appropriate information messages in all media.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u36	Thanks for the offer. I think she'll be fully supported. Please, National Deputy Pavlovenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u37	Thank you. Please pass the word to Irina Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u38	Please turn on Irina Heratchenko's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u39	From our faction of questions to the Deputy Secretary of Defense. Dear colleague, we have a lot of questions today, and we have also sent you official questions about where the 7 billion dollars from Ukraine's budget were headed by a decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And likewise, where did millions of dollars collected by Ukrainian citizens go to support the army? Is it true that only 30 million were left in the accounts, while others were spent on beds, on sheets that had been stolen by the previous authorities? And we want to know how much money was spent to protect our military, to buy armor, what degree of protection. And we also want to warn you that any possible hints of corruption in military custody today will simply be investigated extremely harshly. Because the issue is the defense of our nation and the collection of money for the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u40	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u41	The Cabinet of Ministers has been depriving the State Budget Reserve Fund of 4.6 billion dollars since March 23, 2014. Of which: One and a half billion dollars went to repair and repair weapons, 1.5 billion dollars went to purchase fuel oil materials, 656 million went to cash security for military personnel, 612 million went to buy weapons and military equipment, 145 million went to goods, 89 million went to food for military personnel, 81 million went to communications, 52 million went to pay daily and freight, 17 million to wash and laundry services, 15.7 million to conduct training assemblies for military-related personnel. In March and May, the current financial resource, according to the monthly plan, received 3 billion dollars or 100 percent of the plan. In addition, in June of this year, $1.6 billion is allocated from the reserve fund, including 96.2 million -- again for the restoration and repair of military equipment, 162 million for the purchase of fuel-oil materials, 170 million for the provision of cash, 92 million for the purchase of military equipment, 23 million for the purchase of food and 4.6 million for laundry services. Since February 2014, Ukraine has been taking the "Support the Ukrainian Army" action. As of May 14, 2014, the Ministry of Defence received 122 million dollars as a charity aid, including 28.2 million dollars from mobile operators and 97.5 thousand dollars, and 41.2 thousand euros from mobile operators. Of which 115 million is for material and technical security and 7.2 million for medical care. I'll tell you what. At the suggestion of the General Staff of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, 108 million dollars are planned to target the purchase of the next item. 37.2 million dollars is a field-based consolidation of a new model, 22 million dollars is a dome helmet, 15.2 million dollars is a sleeping bag and insulation pad, 12.3 million is a bracelet with high beaks, 8.5 million is a Navy dress form, 3.5 million is a mask net, 2.2 million is a device of communication and assembly, 2.1 million is a playground, 1.8 million is a playground, 1.2 million is a topographic map and pillow. On May 14, this year, 387 million were used at decentralized costs. Besides, there are procedures for buying these things that I've just called. About 20.05, we get almost half the sleeping bags, by the end of this month, we get a portion of the dome helmets, field uniforms, shoes, Starfleet uniforms. We'll have other supplies by the end of June. In addition, we have just as much material and technical security as 3 and 37 million dollars in the military. These include 300,000 sets of dry rations, 792 units of telecommunications, 649 batteries, 527 vests, 362 tires, 46 tons of fuel, fuel oil, and a thousand 821 pairs of shoes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u42	The word is given to the Pavlovsky people’s representative, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u43	Andrew Pavlovsky, "Fatherland." In fact, the work of the Pension Fund, Treasury, has been paralyzed in Donetsk, Lugansk, because of criminal acts by bandits. They rob banks, they exhibit ultimatums. And I would like to address, first and foremost, the inhabitants of these areas. You must unite and assist the law enforcement agencies, the Armed Forces, to fight these criminals who terrorize you in Donetsk and Luhansk. Otherwise, your pensions will be threatened, the salaries of the budgeters are teachers, doctors, miners. That's why we need to show Donbass the mining character and drive these bandits, criminals, sub-drunks that terrorize you. We need to be together with Ukraine and set things right. And a question to the minister. Can it now provide for the retirement fund in Donetsk and how to pay pensions in Crimea? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u44	Please, Ludmila Leontiyevno, you had a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u45	Retirement in Crimea. Since March 17, the financing of pensions in Crimea has been suspended for impossibility. That's why the pensioners who live there are now receiving pensions at some Russian expense, and we're paying the pension on the mainland of Ukraine for appeals. And so today, 2,000 and 58 people have turned out to be, and we've paid them all the pensions. If people remain in the territory of the occupied Autonomous Republic of Crimea or the city of Sevastopol, they can leave, according to the law of the developed MINS, in order to leave, register, claim that they want to receive a Ukrainian pension, under Ukrainian law, they do not receive such a pension under Russian legislation, in Ukraine. From the following month after the appeal, such citizens will receive either a pension in the post office after their appeal in Ukraine, or they will be accounted for in bank accounts and also in the territory of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u46	The word is given to the People’s Deputy of Moshes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u47	Please pass on the word of Vasuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u48	Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u49	Dear colleagues from the government! I wanted to ask the Prime Minister today, but members of the government. So I'm still asking. Tell us how true it is that on April 25, the Kabminu decree was adopted, which is nowhere to be printed, that 45 acres [45 ha] of land is being allocated in the Chernobyl area for the construction of the tomb of Ukrainian and European Union nuclear wastes. Is it possible for today’s government to lay such a terrible mine of slow action into the life and health of present and future generations? I want an honest answer from the government.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u50	Please, do we have the head of the Ministry of Energy? Please give an answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u51	Thank you for asking. On April 23rd, the government adopted an order to allow the state-owned company Energoatoma to develop a draft land structure for the disposal of the relevant land area in the Chernobyl area to implement a project for the construction of a centralized nuclear fuel depot. This shelter is necessary for the storage of spent nuclear fuel from Ukrainian nuclear power plants, which is now being exported to the Russian Federation. I want to emphasize that it's being temporarily exported to the Russian Federation, and it has to be returned to Ukraine after a certain period of time, according to the agreements. So if you don't build this shelter, you might have an environmental disaster. This repository is built according to the law adopted earlier, and it is necessary to ensure the safe operation of nuclear power plants. All environmental requirements, all environmental standards and all procedures under Ukrainian legislation to ensure the safe operation of this repository with the involvement of modern technology are fully implemented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u52	Dear colleagues, I ask you to calm down. I'm the only one. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, national deputies, I ask you to calm down. First of all, I want to remind you that according to Ukrainian legislation in Ukraine, no other waste countries or other things used before can be imported. That's why there's a ban. This is what the government does for Ukrainian nuclear power plants, I understand. Yes, government or not?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u53	Yeah, that's right. Only for Ukrainian nuclear power plants.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u54	So once again you've heard the government say that it's exclusively for Ukrainian nuclear power plants. [[B in m in s a l in]] Let's keep going. Tymoshenko. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, calm down.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u55	Thank you, Mr. Head. Timoshenko, 198 constituency. I have a question for Ludmila Dennisov. We've been working in a new format for over two months now. Mrs. Ludmila, what's the deadline when the government will introduce a bill for a new pension reform to the Supreme Council? A month from now, a year from now, or never? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u56	You know, for today, we're still studying the situation where this can be done. Because you all know that the accounts for today's Pension Fund don't have the funds to pay off pensions. Because all the money in the treasury accounts is turned into gold bars. And so now we're thinking about how we can do this to protect our people, pay them the pensions that are now being assigned. And we will certainly move in that direction to ensure and introduce a second level of pension reform in our country. This is a compulsory general pension. Compulsory pension insurance.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u57	National MP Pober, please hit.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u58	Please pass the word to Paul Rosenko. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u59	Please turn on Paul Rosenck’s microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u60	Paul Rosenko. Well, according to the Ministry of Defense, you know, there are a lot of questions that arise, so the strike faction will require the creation of a temporary commission of inquiry by the Supreme Council of Ukraine to test the efficiency of using the funds we have allocated to the army, on these Armed Forces that list people with their assets at the Armed Forces of Ukraine, Alexander Valentinovich. And now I have a question for the Minister of Social Policy. A general issue that concerns Ukraine today. Protecting people from rising housing prices, protecting people from rising gas prices. Unfortunately, we are now traveling all over Ukraine, and there are many questions. The government is taking new social initiatives. But people don't know anything about them. So there is a great request to inform people now. Again, it is more effective to use the media.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u61	Please finish the question. That's the last question, dear colleagues. Because time is running out, and the answer is from the government.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u62	More effective use of the media. And secondly, Ludmila Leontiyevno. There is a request to give appropriate instructions to the authorities and social policy in the workplace. Many complaints are that people are unjustifiably denied subsidies. Organs of work should help people. They are to be protected rather than to create appropriate barriers to receiving subsidies and social assistance. There are requests for attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u63	Thank you, Paul Valeriovich. Ladies and gentlemen, if you have such facts as to be denied, I ask you very much to convey them to me. And we will certainly find out why they are not appointed and why they refuse to grant. And, as far as this is concerned, the government today has developed a completely different programme to support our citizens in terms of rising prices and tariffs for residential services. As you recall, there is a housing grant program that has been operating in Ukraine for over 15 years. She's very beautiful. All people are used to it. And we're going to finance it, and we're going to increase the number of people, families that are going to receive these subsidies to one and a half million families. But compensation is such a new program. The right to compensation is granted to families whose monthly total income did not exceed the family’s subsistence minimum in the previous six months. The family’s subsistence minimum is the sum of living minimums for each member of the family. For example, a family of four — a husband, a wife, one child under 6 years of age, and a second one — between 6 and 18 years of age. The subsistence minimum for such a family will be 4,000,764 bracelets. And the family gets $4.5,000. So she's already entitled to such compensation. In order to award compensation, a social security claim must be made for the place of residence. And within 10 days of the application being filed, information on the size of such assistance is sent to the applicant. In order to provide compensation along with the application, it is necessary to provide information on the composition of the persons registered in the residence and on the income of each person. The amount of compensation is defined as the difference between the amount of wages paid for services within consumption standards after the increase in prices and tariffs and the amount of the corresponding payment paid by the family to the change in prices and tariffs for services. For example, under an increase, the family would pay 400 dollars and pay 300. So the amount of compensation is going to be 100 dollars. The compensation is calculated from the month of the call for it and until the end of the heating period 2014-2015. Compensation is provided on a non-reversible basis. Its acquisition does not involve a change in the form of housing ownership and does not entail such a change. In order to obtain compensation, the family has to pay its share for utilities. Otherwise, such compensation is terminated. That is, the coverage of all families that will now receive compensation for housing subsidies is 4.5 million families. That's 30 percent of all the families that are now in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u64	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the "hour of questions to the government" is over. I thank the government. Please proceed with your duties. Honorary colleagues, in accordance with article 25 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, have 30 minutes to announce their requests on Friday. I'm asking Ruslan Volodymyrovich to announce requests from distinguished national deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u65	Thank you. A request was received from the Ukrainian National Deputies: Victor Razwadowski to the head of the Zitomir district administration, the head of the Žitomir district council on the issue of the capital repair of roads in the Romani district of Žitomir. Viktor Razwadowski to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the situation of treasury defaults, the purposeless use of the local budget of the Stanishev Rural Council of the Žitomir Region. Igor Brichenko, acting as Attorney General of Ukraine, Government Commissioner for Anticorruption Policy, Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine for the appointment of the head of the National Commission for the Regulation of Financial Services Markets, Andrija Volkova. Rustama Raupov to the office of the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the appeal of the Radomisl Paradise for the raiding of the university in the city of Radomisl Zitomir district. Alexander Zubcevski, acting as Attorney General of Ukraine, Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine for the establishment and accountability of persons responsible for the organization of mass unrest and the beating of civilians in Zaporozhye on April 13, 2014. Viacheslav Kutovov to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the situation that has arisen with the residence of the inhabitants of barracks and dormitories located within the Sanitary Protection Zone of railway tracks in the streets of Railways Buildings 2,4,6,11, Black house 7-31 (an odd side) and Black house 2.4,6,32 in the city of Vishneve Kyiv-Svetoshin district of Kyiv region, and are on the balance of the State Territorial and Sectoral Union of the South-West Railway. Alexander Momota to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the need to take urgent action on the situation surrounding the health rest of children in the Crimea camps. Lidija Kotelak under the responsibility of the Attorney General of Ukraine to verify compliance with the requirements of effective legislation by the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources of Ukraine. Sergey Firemarck to the head of the Kyiv District State Administration, Prosecutor of Kyiv-Svetoshin district of Kyiv district, on the situation surrounding the construction of the housing complex at Kotsubinska Street, 9, the village of Teaki Kyiv-Svetoshin district of Kyiv Region. Oleg Bondarczuk, acting as Attorney General of Ukraine for the examination of the illegal actions of the employees of the Biloczerkow City Department of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in the Kyiv region, the Prosecutor’s Office of the City of Bila Church, the Prosecutor’s Office of the Kyiv Region, the Attorney General of Ukraine and the judges of the Shevchenkov District Court of Kiev. Anatoly of Revenka to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Ukrainian Security Service, regarding the situation that has arisen in the Crevice Mining and Enriching Combination of Acided Ores. Andrija Tajniboka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to take immediate action to repair the roadways of Old Samobirski, Skolovski, Turkovsk region of Lviv region. Victoria Bullach to the Ukrainian minister of health regarding the use of measures to ensure the necessary treatment, Sergio Isutin, at the expense of one of the government programs. Groups of National Deputies (Kunicina, Kurpila, and others) A total of 7 deputies) to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine for the preservation of the State Higher Education Institute of the Interbranch Academy of Management. Maria Matios to the head of the Ukrainian Security Service for the search for missing persons in the city of Sloviansk, Donetsk. Jury Wozniak to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the consideration of the concern of the Clevana Village Council regarding the granting of consent to the removal of the property of the Clevani Professional List under the arrangements for the cemetery for which the flight has been agreed. Jury Wozniak to the executive responsibility of the Attorney General of Ukraine, Head of the State Executive Service of Ukraine, Higher Qualifications Commission of judges of Ukraine on the need to complete the executive exercise on the withdrawal of funds from the Public Shareholders Association for the benefit of individuals and to bring to justice persons who prevent the execution of decisions. Irina of the Coast to the executive duty of the Attorney General of Ukraine to take urgent action from the full, comprehensive, impartial and open investigation of the attempt on the life of Kharkiv City’s head, Gennady Kernes, and to immediately bring the perpetrators of the crime to the established legal responsibility. Victoria Bullach to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the implementation of measures to restore the work of the Ochtir Syrcombinate branch. Omeljana Parubka is under the responsibility of the Attorney General of Ukraine to take steps to resolve the question of an unsatisfying response to a parliamentary appeal by the prosecutor of the Dnipropetrov region. Vladimir Litvina to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, head of the Provincial District Administration for the construction of the Novograd-Wallin College. Vladimir Litvina to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Ukrainian Minister of Health, for the promotion of the treatment of a sick child in a German clinic. Alexander Fitchuk to the head of the State Treasury Office of Ukraine on the possibility of using funds on the treasury accounts of the city of Kitzman for the construction of the monument Taras Grigorovitch Shevchenk. Roman Ilik to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the development of the oil and gas sector in Borislav Lviv district. Anton Kisse to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on urgent measures to preserve Lake Yalpug, located in the Odessa region. Leonidas Bysarov, acting as Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine for the investigation of the shooting in the city of Krasnoarmiski Donetské region, resulted in the death of two others, another seriously injured. Vasil Pazinjak, acting as Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Justice of Ukraine for the conduct of a legal review of the activities of the employees of the U.S. Public Prosecutor’s Office of the Zacarpathian Region when a procedural decision has been taken on the application of a citizen named John Ogary and the legality of the administration of the State Executive Service of the Zacarpathian Department of Justice. Sergey Grnevetsky to the head of the Odessa District Council on the status of implementation of the Odessa District Council decision of 28 October 2011 on the approval of the Regional Programme for the Conservation and Recovery of Water Resources in the Kuyalnicka Lima Basin for 2012-2016. Ms. Grinevetsky to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the status of implementation of the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers Order No. 1002 from 21 November 2013 "On the Approval of the Concept of the Ukrainian Regional Development Programme 2014-2017". Irina Bážéni under the responsibility of the Attorney General of Ukraine, Head of the Security Service of Ukraine, to take immediate action to ensure the full, comprehensive, impartial and transparent investigation of the unprecedented, illegal and non-democratic events that have taken place in Ukraine in recent months, to ensure public order and to ensure the safety of Ukrainian citizens. Alexander Shevchenka and Irina Farion to Deputy Prime Minister Alexander Sich of Ukraine for the expansion of the civil status register. Vasil Petíkovka is under the responsibility of the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the improper review by the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine and the Prosecutor’s Office of the Zacarpathian Area of Deputies of March 25, 2014, regarding the use of measures to compensate the State-owned enterprise for its damage and liability. Vasila Petyovka, head of the National Financial Inspectorate of Ukraine, on the legality and rationality of budget implementation during construction in the village of Terjel Tachiv district of Zacarpathia, an object for the removal of residents of a townlike village called Solotvino from the predicted area of deformation of the earth’s surface. Bogdan Benjuk to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine for the annulment of the decision of a specialised scientific council on the conviction of Oleg Sidorchuk as a scientific candidate of law. Alexander Fitchuk to the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine for the completion of the construction and reconstruction of bridges and roads destroyed in July 2008 in the village of Rostok of the Czernovets region. Roman Ilik to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for compensation for the loss of money savings from the USSR Savings Bank. Valentina Matvieva to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the gross violation of the requirements of the Ukrainian Act on Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine during its plenary sessions. Markiana Lopachak to the executive duty of the Attorney General of Ukraine to file a report of crimes against the resident of the city of Odessa Svetlana and the improper actions of the notary. Istwana Hydos to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to ensure social justice in setting tariffs for housing and utility services for the population. Istwan Haydosh to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine on speeding up the approval of educational programmes for schools with Hungarian language. Ruslan Solvar to the Ministry of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine, Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, State Health and Epidemiological Service of Ukraine, State Architecture and Construction Inspection of Ukraine, Attorney General of Ukraine on violations of urban legislation and on the need to take effective measures to ensure the protection of constitutional rights and freedoms of citizens. Ruslan Solvar to the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights, Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Ministry of Justice of Ukraine, State Penitentiary Service of Ukraine, Attorney General of Ukraine for the possible misconduct of law enforcement officials and their violation of the constitutional rights and freedoms of citizens. Alexander Shevchenk to the head of the State Geology Service and the Ukrainian Nadr for the transfer of the entire property complex of the Northern Regional Geological Survey in the administration of the National Bank of Ukraine. Oleg Kanovtsa to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the collapse of gas production and the elimination of the existing state of gas specialists in the field of gas mining in the Strysk Technical Transport and Engineering Department of the Sebelin Department of Technology and Technicians and the Stryst Burial Work Department of the Burial Administration of the Ukrburgaz Public Stock Exchange Society. Oleg Kulinić to the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine on the payment of pensions to disabled participants in the liquidation of the consequences of the accident at Chernobyl AES. Ruslana Marcinkov, acting as Attorney General of Ukraine for the implementation of Ukraine's "On Principles for the Functioning of the Natural Gas Market" by the Public Stock Exchange Company "Ukrnafta". Jaroslav Suhogo to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the negative environmental consequences of building in a village of the city type of Ivanks of the Kyiv district of the thermal power plant with the use of local wood waste, which has a higher radionucleus content. Leonidas Dacenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the annulment of Cabinet of Ministers Decision No. 745 of 2011 which gives the Ukrainian Pension Fund the right not to issue a decision on the payment of pensions to black people and children of war, and on the obligation of the Ukrainian Pension Fund to collect such payments. Leonidas Dacenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the disclosure of payments from the budgets of local self-government bodies, institutions and organizations of local executives and local communities by the State Treasury Service. Sergey Gordienka to the head of the Lviv District State Administration on the groundless refusal to apply for the honorary title of "Mother Hero" to residents of the village of Voloshtina Premyslánskiy district of Stépania Alfawieckia. Olga Mikhailenko to the Minister of Agriculture and Food of Ukraine for the reduction of rent for the use of land for pastures for livestock. Oleg Zarubinsky to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the provision of military personnel who were transferred from the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. Oleg Zarubinsky to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the proper level of financial security for persons appointed for military service. Edward Leonov to Prime Minister of Ukraine, acting as Attorney General of Ukraine for information on the financial support of public organizations of disabled persons and veterans in 2013. Jury Crook to the Prime Minister of Ukraine to amend some of the legislation on improving the quality and timeliness of the provision of emergency and emergency medical care. Vadima Merikov to the Minister of Ecology and Natural Resources of Ukraine on improper compliance with the guidance of the Mikolai Agricultural Environmental Security Plant, which has resulted in regular pollution of the environment in the area. Paul Kirilenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the development of the Ukrainian Danube. Paul Kirilenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, on the limitation of rail traffic with Russia and the Republic of Belarus. Mikli Dzardanova to Prime Minister of Ukraine, acting as Minister of Defence of Ukraine for the construction and use of rocket cruiser project 1164 "Atlant". Mikli Dzardanov to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the consequences of the explosion of a ten-story building in the city of Mikolayev. Groups of National Deputies (Ariev, Donya, Kugel) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the verification of violations of the current Ukrainian legislation and the abuse of office as co-workers of the National Education Inspectorate of Ukraine and the expert staff commission of the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine. Igor Yankywa is under the responsibility of the Attorney General of Ukraine to establish the legality and accountability of officials responsible for the theft of property in common. Viacheslav Zadrožany to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Prime Minister of Ukraine for the payment of salaries to employees of the Public Shareholders Association of the Crivrozyska turbine plant Konstar. Groups of National Deputies (Herachenko, Pavlenko, Rosenka) to the Acting Prosecutor-General of Ukraine, the Minister of Justice of Ukraine for the Prohibition of the Public Association of the "Ukrainian Choice" and the Attraction to the Responsibility of His Leaders. Irina Herashchenko and Rostislav Pavlenko are under the responsibility of the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, to investigate the facts of the purposeful, conscious inaction of the employees of the Odessa law enforcement agencies during the attack on peaceful participants in the pro - Ukrainian rally and to conduct a competent investigation into the facts of service negligence. Jury Orotyuk, acting as Attorney General of Ukraine, acting as Minister of Defence of Ukraine, is the head of the Department of Internal Audit and Financial Control of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine for the verification of the legality of the actions of officials of the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine, in particular the Director of the Department of Internal Audit and Financial Control, Maxim Goldarb, the Director of the Department of Personnel, Sergei Borisuk, and the adviser of the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine, at the public ambushes of Viktor Savechk. Jury Bublika under the responsibility of the Attorney General of Ukraine for the inaction of local self-government and law enforcement authorities of the city of Kremenczuk Poltaw region and the removal of land-law violations in the use of land leased by the limited liability of the Cremenchuck Meat Processing Company. Ruslana Marcinkov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the situation of the Ukrainian Armed Forces released from their jobs and outstanding loans during partial mobilization. Group of National Deputies (Paulenka, Heratchenko Rosenka) to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Prime Minister of Ukraine, acting as Attorney General of Ukraine for the appointment of Deputy Chief of Public Security of the Department of Public Security of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in Kiev, and the need to conduct a competent investigation into the illegal activities of Sergey Boyka, head of the Department of Internal Affairs, in Kiev, and the need for a competent investigation into the illegal activities of Sergey Boyka, head of the Department of Public Security of Kiev. Oleg Pankević, acting as Ukraine’s foreign minister for the urgent removal of obstacles to the exercise of Ukrainian citizens’ electoral rights abroad during the presidential election on May 25, 2014. Oleg Pankević to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the introduction of legal and regulatory acts by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine in accordance with the legislative requirements concerning the granting of administrative payment services by the State Migration Service of Ukraine in the production of a passport for a Ukrainian citizen to go abroad. Vadima Merikov, acting as Attorney General of Ukraine, Head of the State Financial Inspectorate of Ukraine for the verification of compliance with financial discipline by the Public Shareholder Society of Mikolaivoblanergo between 2011 and 2014. Vladimir Pilpenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine to increase the amount of compensation for unused travel to sanatorium treatment for war invalids. Vladimir Pilpenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the allocation of funds for the capital repairs of the general practice and family medicine outpost in the village of Ustivice of the Velikobogachan region of Poltava. Anatoly of Denisenka to the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine on the establishment of social and legal protection for the wives (men) of the deceased citizens who suffered in life as a result of the Chernobyl disaster. Anatoly of Denisenka to the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine to provide children with disabilities with a constant 50 per cent reduction in the cost of travelling on internal routes of air, rail, river and car transport. Jurija Orotyuka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to stop the ethnic cleansing of Ukrainians who make Russian diversors and their lieutenants in the eastern areas of Ukraine. Sergey Balandin to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the partial degradation of the land of the research farm "Runo", which is subordinated to the National Academy of Agricultural Sciences of Ukraine to the citizens of the villages of Zatišné, Lugovov, Granite and Karaika Dnipropetrovsk Region. Oleg Bukhovtsa to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine for the cessation of the illegal activity of the armed extremist terrorist group Right Sector. Oleg Tuggnibok to the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, head of the Lviv District State Administration for compensation to the rehabilitated family of Michael Molecho. Paul Rosenka and Irina Herashchenko are under the responsibility of the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine regarding the violation of Ukrainian legislation during the printing and distribution of the newsletter "Improvement in a New" and the magazine "New Winnitzka newspaper", which contains notoriously false information about the candidate for the post of President of Ukraine, Peter Poroshenko. Sergey Kaplina to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the need to continue the public competitive selection of candidates for the posts of district and city heads of internal affairs. And the final, honorable society, the question. Sergey Kaplina to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the use of urgent measures to implement the decisions of the European Court of Human Rights on payments to socially vulnerable groups. These are all the questions asked by the national MPs. [[Applause]] I hope that this kind of activity that you just applauded will now be during the discussion of the agenda of the plenary.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u66	Ladies and gentlemen, we are moving on to a discussion of the agenda. And I ask the honourable national deputies to consider the draft Law (Registration No. 2202). Ladies and gentlemen, are there any suggestions for consideration? Let's see. So I'm asking for a report to the People's Chamber of the People's Deputies of Bulah Victoria Volodymyrna. Is there no reporter? None. Unfortunately, there is no report. We're taking this bill off the table. Is there a committee? Is the committee going to report? There's no report. So let's take the question off. There is no report, so we will not discuss it. Maybe it'll work. Let's wait a little longer. There's no reporter. We'll wait, if the reporter comes in right now, then we'll discuss it. Without a report, we won't be discussing the bill, Your Honor. The next bill (registration number 3375) is the draft Act amending article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Recovery and Recreation of Children. The rapporteur is the secretary of the Committee on Family, Youth Policy, Sport and Tourism, Igor Tarasovic. Please, Igor Tarasovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u67	Dear colleagues, I, along with the Ukrainian National Deputies Ruslan Kosulinski and Andrey Tsagnibok, have submitted a draft of the Ukrainian Law amending article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Recovery and Rest of Children (for the establishment of the age of children who are in institutions of rest and recovery with parents) (registration number 3375). The purpose of the bill is to establish a clear legal age for children who may be in institutions for recreation and recovery with their parents or other legal representatives. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Recovery and Recreation of Children, children between the ages of 4 and 6 are in institutions of health and rest with parents and other legal representatives, and between the ages of 7 and 18 on their own. Thus, the rest and recovery of children between the ages of 6 and 7 remain outside the proper legal framework. That's why we're proposing to make changes to part of article 13 of the Ukrainian Children's Health and Recreation Act, to determine that children between the ages of 4 and 7 are in children's health and rest facilities with parents or other legal representatives. Children between the ages of 7 and 18 are able to rest on their own. The committee considered the bill at its November 5, 2013. The bill does not conflict with the law of Ukraine. The bill does not require additional financial expenditure from the state budget of Ukraine. The main scientific and expert office concluded on the results of the first reading. The bill can be adopted as a basis. The committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that the draft law be considered in the first reading and adopted as a basis. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u68	Thank you, Igor Tarasovich. I'm asking the national MPs to sign up for a question. If you wish, please sign up. Please sign up, yes, please. Please include the national deputy Kovac, the group "North European Ukraine".
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u69	I beg your pardon. Please tell me, is it 18 and 6 years old?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u70	Yes. I mean, according to our legislation, we just fell out. We have 4 to 6 years, and we have 7 to 18. And this is a year between the ages of 6 and 7, and it just fell into legislation. We're settling this problem.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u71	Please turn on the microphone to the Peace People's Deputy, the faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u72	Please pass the word to the person who was directly looking after the children in the post of Secretary of the City of Ivano-Frankiv Council of Ruslan Marcinkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u73	Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u74	Ruslan Marcinkov, All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. As former director of Plast, I can say that this is really a very important law for the Ukrainian state. And that's why it's important today to really settle the issue of recovery. And the question is that all children, regardless of their age, will receive sufficient care from the state. So that's my question. Is it also planned today to review the regulations that are the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, particularly with regard to tent camps, in order to actually improve the recovery of our children today. Because today we have a lot of problems because we've lost, unfortunately, I think temporarily, the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. And we need to do everything we can to make our children better. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u75	Well, that's more of a question for the Cabinet of Ministers, of course. As far as I'm concerned, this Ministry of Youth and Sports is now working in that direction actively with the Ministry of Social Policy. As far as our bill is concerned, it refers to a change in the age limits of children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u76	Thank you. The Andriyevsky People's Deputy, the Fatherland faction. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u77	Dear colleagues, I do not even have a question, but a reply to support this law. I'm sure it can and should be supported in the first reading, and I think in general. I've been approached repeatedly by people as a major MP and the imbalance of this particular issue, well, it's a lot of trouble for people who are resting. That's the only question. How is this going to happen, and how much more funding is going to be given by the fact that we're filling this gap in time? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u78	Thank you for asking. According to current legislation, parents do all the same at their own expense or at the expense of the company funds that are allocated to businesses or institutions. So it's actually not costing anything from the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u79	Thank you. Please turn on the microphone to the People's Deputy Rudzkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u80	I support this bill. We must vote on the day when there will be sufficient numbers of national deputies. But I still have something to say to you as the chairman. I'd like that to be taken as a request. We have a critical situation at the Conquest and Cossacks now with the financing of payments, social benefits and wages. Understanding all the problems, Montenegro is a donor of the Ukrainian budget. And I'm asking as a major deputy to take steps to ensure that debt on social pay and wages in Kozelecki, Bobrovicki and Prilutski district and the city of Priluky are repaid in the near future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u81	Thank you. Please turn on the microphone of the People's Deputy Leonov, the faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u82	Edward Leonov, All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, Crimea, Sevastopol. Of course, the issue of sanatorium treatment for children is extremely important for Ukraine because the general condition of childhood illness among adolescents is terrible. So we have virtually no healthy children, and their recovery should be a priority for the state. I would very much like to go to the drafters of the bill, to their one-party people, and I think it's time for us to pay attention to the health system of the children in sanatoriums. And notice that the subordination of sanatoriums, the subordination of boarding houses, for example, there are a lot of professional so-called boardhouse sanatoriums that actually serve the private interests of people who have usurped power in professional organizations. And I urge the drafters to work together to restore normal sanatorium treatment for children.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u83	Thank you. Turn the microphone on for cranes.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u84	I think this bill is going to be adopted if there's a deputy corps and there's not going to be any problems. If this bill is adopted, I'm sure it will be, children between 6 and 7 years of age, not from 4 to 6 now, will be able to stay in institutions with parents or other legal representatives. Because they are not always with their parents. So this legislative failure is decided by the author of the legislative initiative. And that's why I would urge everyone to vote in favour of this bill. He's not carrying the economic load. Because parents are there at their own expense in institutions and institutions. I know that. I thank the author of the legislative initiative for this as the former deputy head of the Kiev City Administration and the first deputy minister of education and science. I am.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u85	Thank you. A rhetorical question, I don't think I need an answer here, Igor Tarasovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u86	Thank you for your support. I would still like this bill to be put to the vote when we have the votes in the room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u87	Thank you. Dear colleagues. We've discussed, yes, that's the question? Dear colleagues, before we go to the next question, I would like to inform you that on 26-27 April 2014, there was an extraordinary assembly of Ukrainian lawyers in Odessa, which, in accordance with article 131 of the Constitution of Ukraine, article 54 of the Law on Lawyers and Lawyerry, articles 10, 11 of the Law on the Higher Council of Justice, appointed three members of the Supreme Council of Justice. Two lawyers Rezników Aleksija Yuriovich and Greek Pavel Mikolaiovich and Judge of the Court of Commerce of Kyiv Balaca Sergija Valeriyovich. On April 29, 2014, a meeting was held in Kiev with representatives of law - enforcement institutions and scientific institutions. According to article 131 of the Constitution of Ukraine and articles 10, 11 of the Law on the Higher Council of Justice, by secret ballot, appointed representatives of the High Council of Justice: a visitor to the faculty of the National Law University of Yaroslav Jadro Kaplin Oksana Volodymyrovna, Dean of the Faculty of Law of Lviv National University of Frank Boyko Andriy Mihajlovich and Judge of the Court of Appeal of the Zakarpat district of Fazikos Hanna Vasilovna. In accordance with article 17 of the Law of Ukraine on the Higher Council of Justice and article 217 of the Law on the Rules of the Supreme Council, before taking office as a member of the Supreme Council of Justice, an oath is made at the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. A member of the High Council of Justice, Balak Sergey Valeriyovich, is invited to make an oath to the rostrum. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u88	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs! I, Balak Sergey Valeriyovich, have sworn conscientiously, honestly and impartially to serve as a member of the High Council of Justice to ensure the formation of a corps of high - professional and honest lawyers and to uphold the law and ethics of judges and prosecutors.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u89	Thank you. To make an oath to the rostrum, a member of the Greek High Council of Justice, Paul Mikolaiovich, is invited.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u90	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs! I, the Greek Paul Mikolaiovich, have sworn conscientiously, honestly and impartially to serve as a member of the High Council of Justice to ensure the formation of a corps of high - professional and honest lawyers and to uphold the law and ethics of judges and prosecutors.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u91	Thank you. To make an oath to the rostrum, a member of the High Council of Justice, Rezników Aleksy Juryovich, is invited.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u92	Dear National Deputies! I, Reznikov Alexi Yuriovich, have sworn conscientiously, honestly and impartially to serve as a member of the High Council of Justice to ensure the formation of a corps of high - professional and honest lawyers and to uphold the law and ethics of judges and prosecutors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u93	Thank you. A member of the High Council of Justice, Boyko Andry Mihajlovich, is invited to make an oath to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u94	Dear National Deputies! I, Boyko Andriy Mihajlovich, have sworn conscientiously, honestly and impartially to serve as a member of the High Council of Justice to ensure the formation of a corps of high - professional and honest lawyers and to uphold the law and ethics of judges and prosecutors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u95	Thank you. To make an oath to the rostrum, a member of the High Council of Justice, Caplin Oxan Volodymyryn, is invited.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u96	Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! I, Caplina Oksana Volodymyrna, have sworn conscientiously, honestly and impartially to serve as a member of the High Council of Justice in order to ensure the formation of a corps of high - professional and honest lawyers and the observance of law and ethics in the activities of judges and prosecutors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u97	Thank you. To make an oath to the Supreme Council’s rostrum, a member of the High Council of Justice, Fazikos Hanna Vasilovna, is invited.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u98	I, Fazikos Hanna Vasilovna, have sworn conscientiously, honestly and impartially to serve as a member of the High Council of Justice to ensure the formation of a corps of high - professional and honest lawyers and the observance of law and ethics in the activities of judges and prosecutors.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u99	Thank you. Let us welcome the members of the High Council of Justice who are approaching in the exercise of very important and responsible responsibilities. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, I declare that according to article 13 of the Ukrainian Law "On the Status of the People's Deputy" and article 60 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Ostapchuk Viktor Mikolaiovich reports on his membership in the parliamentary group "Economic Development". Dear colleagues, the next question that we can discuss with you is the draft Act amending article 26 of the Employment of the Population Act (on the employment of graduates of educational institutions). This is a project of the People's Deputy Suhigo, which he is now presenting to us (registration number 2883).
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u100	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I will report from myself and from the committee in connection with the absence of a member of the Committee. The bill is short and clear. We have a basic law called "The Employment of the Population." Article 26 of this law provides for the purpose of compensating the employment of people, young people unemployed, by compensating employers for the only social contribution each month. But this bill provides for such a standard, a young person should stand in the Employment Center, that is, be officially unemployed. When it is employed, the employer receives compensation. But we have out of 563,000 young unemployed today, 20,000 are graduates of different colleges, higher education institutions, vocational engineering and colleges. And the paradox is that when we employ this young man, a university graduate, we should actually start with him or interest the employer, send him to the stock market, he registered that he's unemployed. This is all nonsense, and what's paradoxical is that a lot of these graduates were going to learn about the agreements between them, the management of the higher and the management of a particular enterprise, to which this young future economist or engineer is going back. Therefore, it is proposed that, in view of the fact that the law currently addresses the issue of compensation for the employer’s sole social contribution to the new job, only young people employed by the State Employment Service in Ukraine are asked to settle the issue of compensation for the employer’s sole social contribution to the employment of young people, which the company itself invites to work for a new job. I emphasize, a new job, it has to be created, an enterprise spends some money on creating this new job, where we employ a graduate, and we reduce the number of unemployed young people by about 21,000 citizens. Today, there are 11 people who want to work in one job available. In Kiev, 27 claimants have one vacant seat. To one vacancy for a lawyer, 84 claimants and 29 economists. So there's some sort of distortion in the training of specialists. But this bill allows the employer to get compensation. He must be motivated and interested in accepting a job, that is, doing the law and the employment, and the first job for young people. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u101	Thank you. Mr. Jaroslav, please stay, the questions will be now. I'm asking the MPs to sign up for a question to the reporter. Please turn on the microphone of the People's Deputy, the Economic Development Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u102	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Group "Economic Development" Filipenko, Poltavščina. Our parliamentary group will certainly support the bill just presented by our colleague, which is quite relevant today. In this regard, let me also ask questions so that the doubts that a person has can be resolved. The fact is that with the adoption of the bill, there will be a substantial increase in the number of people whose work is to compensate for the costs of their employers. And since the size of the corresponding compensatory payments will inevitably increase, the question arises: Is it necessary to make adjustments to the budget?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u103	The point is that this bill and expenses will apply to the State Employment Center. It's not budget, it can be reviewed. And when we talked to the State Employment Center on the committee, we said you could look boldly at your spending at the state employment center. And in this case, it's about the employer spending money on creating a new job and completely understanding the need to compensate. And one more thing. It is quite clear that the State Employment Center will not support this bill. This bill is supported by the employer in the representative body. Because employers are interested in people being employed in their direction. And about the state budget. So when I talked to the Chief Executive, we agreed that there was no government budget spending here, it's not predictable. These are insured persons.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u104	Thank you. Please turn on the microphone of the Andreyevsky People's Deputy, the Fatherland faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u105	Dear colleagues! An extremely topical question suggests settling a colleague. I am constantly approached by university students on the very question that has been repeatedly promised — the creation of a first job. It would be very appropriate to explain briefly how this law would work for the graduates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u106	There are two directions. The first direction was to order the industrial enterprise itself, which sent a young boy or a girl to study to get a specialty in engineering or engineering, which is a specialty, the same economist and the same financier. Clearly, then, he should not be charged to the Employment Center. He was ordered, he came and the state compensated. The Employment Center compensates the employer for employing this young man. There's another way, another way. A young man himself, you know, writes a staff summary. He goes to the interview with the employer, and he goes to the interview after he's finished or Kyivo-Magilian, or any college teacher, or my own Lviv University. He goes there to work, and the employer will also have to compensate, because this is the first job for this young person. The language refers to, you rightly pointed out, young people.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u107	Please turn on the microphone to the National Deputy Briginz, the Fatherland faction. Please turn on the microphone to the people's deputy Briginetz!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u108	Alexander Briginetz, Fatherland, Kiev, Oblon. Any law that makes it possible to employ young people, the first job is to be supported, because it's very important. But please tell me, in your opinion, this law that can show the dynamics of job creation, and how quickly or to what extent this problem can be solved, precisely because of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u109	I already told you that number. That's about 20,000 a year. This is how the need to employ young people — graduates of PTUs or colleges or higher education institutions — is measured. This figure is about 20,000 a year, and this figure will certainly grow and grow if this bill works. But I'm telling you frankly, he has both his followers, and here in the session room it's definitely because we understand what the first job is for a young person and for opponents who are going to have to look at their costs in some way. Or maybe they took something else and planned it, and they're going to have to make it up to the employer, so. I think it's the right thing to do. Well, why is he the right way? It's a European path. This is what they do in all the countries of the world. The employer should be interested, regardless of the form of ownership. So the dynamics about, I call you the figure, it's 20.7 we counted, or 20.1,000 graduates of different schools.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u110	Please turn on the microphone of the People's Deputy Leonov, the faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u111	Edward Leonov, All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, Crimea, Sevastopol. Dear reporter, there are fighting separatists in Ukraine, and many young people are now being mobilized to serve their Fatherland. And, of course, it would be worth it, perhaps, for the authors of a similar bill. I understand that it was created a little earlier, but maybe you should really think about it and work on it to predict and for those young people who are now serving in the Armed Forces of Ukraine, in the special departments of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, to anticipate the possibility of getting a guaranteed job after demobilization. In addition, it is imperative that those who are now young people who are now serving in their homeland be allowed to enter higher educational institutions under the tax system.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u112	Mr. Edward, that's why I said I'd answer the committee's questions. The committee proposes to adopt this law as a basis. Why? Here, please, I urge you to cooperate. This is what the comparative table of article 26 looks like. Please. It will not conflict with article 116 of the Rules, for we write as a supplement on the matter. Look. The first job is left. He was called into the army. First place to work, after you're done. Please, let us write down this standard, and thus we guarantee the peace of our young people who are beginning to experience it. The boy wrote it. He's got a May 28th birthday. Independent appreciation there later, and he planned to do what he would do now. So in order to avoid these concerns, we certainly have to write this standard of employment. And in another bill, where education is concerned, there's a committee of Lilia Greenevich, there might be a bill in that bill. This standard is a great idea.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u113	Please turn on the microphone to the people's MP Rudzkowski, non-factional.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u114	Dear reporter, we understand that we can only settle issues with the first job when we are making serious investment in public policy, and we are actually creating new jobs. New jobs in rural areas when I was asked to vote for every 20 hectares to create one job, and this will encourage agrarians to do animal farming. In the areas of Donbas, where many areas where mines are closed and people cannot find jobs. This is a common Ukrainian problem. Social justice, justice, is only possible when there is work and a decent wage. What we can do, apart from this law, for that.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u115	Let me give you a brief answer to your question. The bill, which I report, number 2883 refers to compensation to employers for the employment of young people as the first job. Your questions are good and beautiful. I can give you an example. Three mines have been shut down in the town of Snow. The Negative Company Motor City has created an industrial enterprise, and former miners are now very normal and well venturing titanium blades for aviation engines. It's going to be a state-wide program. But in this case, it's about graduates.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u116	Please turn on the microphone to National Deputy Benyukow.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u117	Bogdan Benjuk, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Mr. Jaroslav, I'd like to ask you something. We have creative branches in Ukraine that are simply poor after the end of this college without any work. Because it's incredibly difficult to complete any creative group there with new graduates. Can this rule be prescribed in this future law, which will be passed in a second reading, that creative university graduates would necessarily have some compensation for it, because they often do not have a job, and for a long time to find a job, they're looking. They don't have this first place. Is it worth considering that creative bonds have a separate article to address these issues?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u118	Mr. Bogdan, the bill provides a general standard for all, including employers who employ a young graduate of the creative university. You know, it's a very long and complicated problem. How it happened when we started, well, the branches, saving themselves, began to create specialties, professions that turned out to be overworked today. Well, there's too many of them, they're not needed. That's why there's another problem. The problem is the training of specialists that will be needed. But in this case we don't have, well, what's going on with the demobilized is definitely a new norm. We could not predict it in early 2013. Your problem, it's, I tell you, it's covered by this bill. There can be no problem here. She's supposed to be interested in the employer, the chief director of the opera there or Frank's theater.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u119	Please turn on the microphone to the national MP Zurawski, the Economic Development Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u120	Dear colleagues! I would like to emphasize that any person who finishes a medium-special institution or a higher educational, creative institution, including (this is an answer to our colleague of the National Deputy of Ukraine Benjuk), should first register at the Employment Center as unemployed. You know, most people are unemployed after they graduate from a high-school or higher education facility. They can't do anything. And only then, if the person is hired, the first job, is compensated to those who take it, not just the business. Am I right, Mr. Jaroslav? And if this bill is adopted, I'm sure we'll support it. You don't need to register it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u121	I mean. If they sum it up, I won’t take the closing word, I won’t take the closing word. There is no need to register with the Employment Center, according to this bill. He can work on his own. And the employer, who's going to show good will, but this is going to be the first job, not the 20th, he's going to get compensation. Or he sent him to college. It doesn't matter at all. The first job is the first job. And in this case, we can ask a young person if he thinks he's not going to work for 20 years and then say he's young and he's going to work. That's bullshit. So in this case, I think you all understand the bill, the bill is extremely necessary. But I'm looking at that there's more journalists on the balcony than there are deputies, so I'd like to ask, Alexander Valentine's Day, to move the vote to a later date.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u122	If you can, just one more question, take your time, we still have a question. There are still questions. Please turn on the microphone to National Deputy Furman, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u123	And there's no Head.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u124	Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u125	Alexy Furman, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Sadly, according to official statistics, the term for unemployed youths is increasing and increasing. So the law is absolutely necessary. But I have the following proposal: The bill proposes that an employer who employs a new post of university graduates for a term of at least 2 years per month compensates the actual costs of a single tax. But I think it's too small because the employer has a much higher cost and it's very difficult to adapt to a young specialist at the time and get a young specialist. So I suggest you increase this term to 3 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u126	The point is that this rule is enshrined in the basic law and in basic article 26. If we are to rework, we need to remake the law, and here, in this case, article 116 of the Rules will not allow us to do so. Your logic is, a young specialist is considered a young specialist for three years. It would be nice if the employer who rides with him taught him, you know what he's re-learning, especially in technical enterprises, gets that kind of compensation. But in this case, you need to make changes to Article 26 of the Employment Act. It'll be another bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u127	Dear Society, let us consult. We've got a break coming up right now, so I'd suggest we work without interruptions. And now we're going to move on to the national MPs. I'll ask the National Deputies to sign up for this statement. Please turn on the microphone to the People's Deputy Philipenko, the Economic Development Group. And I've got a check-in. Thank you. There's a record, please show the record. Is there a record of you, yes, National MPs? Yes. Yeah? Welcome to the presentation of the National Deputy Bondarczuk, the faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u128	Pass it to Furman, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u129	Please, you can come out of the room if you want. Come to the rostrum. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now considering a bill (registration number 2883). I'll explain again, thank you. It's coming off. Please, the Zarubinsky People's Deputy Group, Sovereign European Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u130	Mr. Chairman, honourable colleagues, on the other hand, I must point out that the Suhim People's Deputy has a current bill that deals with an important social problem. When we talk about social problems, we talk more about wages and social benefits and so on. But it's a social problem of a universal nature, because it's about the sense of society. To a large extent, it depends on how young people feel. Is it required, or is it thrown into the trash? Well, in the figurative sense of that word. I think that the bill proposed by Mr. Suhi, the subject of the legislative initiative, is somewhat linked, but it is profiled with another bill that will be considered today by the Committee on Education and Science for Second Reading, the Higher Education Act. Because the question of whether graduates are employed is directly linked to the one who is being released from higher education institutions. And I think that the adoption of this bill, perhaps in the first reading, will also contribute to a certain educational policy or a correction of education policy. Because everyone knows that today there is overproduction, overproduction of a number of specialties that simply cannot be employed by graduates. Not because bad employers, but because they're too many, and the education market and the social market, respectively, are not yet self-regulated. And so in these circumstances, under the circumstances of the same economists, let's face it, the same lawyers, and so on, will lead to the help of the employer. Helping him to be motivated to be stimulated. I know that some of my colleagues are offering to force the employer to take on young specialists. Believe me, it'll be a fiction, it'll never be, it'll have to be stimulated. And what he's given this benefit, which is foreseen by the Dry Law, is a motive, that's a certain incentive for the employer to take a graduate from a higher education institution. I can't hear you yelling all the time? Is there a problem? After that, okay? So I think this bill should be taken seriously, as a minimum, on the first reading, our group is ready to vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u131	Thank you. I'll remind the National Deputies that the national MPs are on the move, not the question, not the proposal, the speech. That's right. I'll report to the National Police. So, I would like to ask you, before the speech of the People's Deputy Golovka, the faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. People's deputy Golovko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u132	Excuse me. I'd like to give the floor to the national MP, Edward Leon.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u133	Thank you. People's deputy Leonov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u134	Edward Leonov, All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, Crimea, Sevastopol. Ladies and gentlemen, despite the fact that, unfortunately, there are more important things in this room than participating in the plenary meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and the session hall is almost empty, the problems in the country are no less. On the contrary, the problem is becoming ever more and more. An antiterrorist operation is under way where our boys in eastern Ukraine risk their lives, saving our lives and including the lives of those national deputies who are not currently seated are not in the Supreme Council session hall, although they are obliged to do so. How can we ask those boys to do their job if national deputies fail to do their work? And it's a disgrace, and it's a crime against the state at such a time! The All-Ukrainian Freedom Union insists that national MPs be present at plenary meetings in an orderly manner, and that we do not translate or translate the laws. As a bill has already been put to the vote twice, draft decree (4510) on social security for refugees from the Crimea. On the contrary, the first meeting of the Crimean refugees will take place on May 23, because people realized that they had to solve their own problems. And of course, this gathering of Crimean refugees is actually a disgrace to the Ukrainian state. Because people who were forced to leave their homes received no social guarantees, no attention from the State. The Supreme Council Act on the status of the temporarily occupied territory has already been passed. But this law is not being fulfilled. The government has not yet created a special executive body that would care for both those Ukrainian citizens who are now under occupation and those Ukrainian citizens who have been forced to flee from the Crimean Peninsula to the continental part of Ukraine under the threat of life. It's, by the way, one of the laws that we're currently looking at, maybe in part, that could solve problems, including criminals. Because now the graduates of Crimean colleges can't get a diploma because the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine takes a formal position, it's just that there are no applications for Ukrainian diplomas by Crimean graduates. And how can these thousands of Crimean graduates get these diplomas if they are now led by people who have betrayed Ukraine who do not order Ukrainian diplomas. The Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine is obliged to take an active position, as is everyone else.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u135	If possible, closer to the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u136	It's very close to this bill. This is one of those bills that, theoretically, can make life a little easier for Ukrainian seniors. And nothing funny, dear colleagues, is in this situation. Because any law that we're considering in this session room should include the interests of those guys who are now fighting in the East and those people who are already refugees and living in occupied territory. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u137	May I have the floor of the People's Deputy Layashka.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u138	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. My fellow Members, I think it's clear that no changes to any laws will help with the employment of young people or people of a slightly older age, unless we radically change the economic system, the economic situation. In 20 years, we have turned Ukraine into a site where imported manure has been destroyed by our own production. We have no industry, no agriculture. Instead of selling ours, we import, deprive people of employment, earn, and feed their families. So the Supreme Council, the Ukrainian government, should not just change laws, but radically change economic policies in a state that should be based, as a minimum, on three whales: this is a radical tax cut, credit cuts, deregulation of the economy, protection of the internal market from mainly imported straw. We have Chinese Greeks, Turkish cucumbers and tomatoes, Egyptian potatoes, cowards, socks -- everything in the world is tied. Instead of making our own, instead of having our own jobs. As far as youth employment is concerned. It's obvious that the first thing to do is to release all pensioners from public service. And we have to start with the Supreme Council. To ban the appointment of pensioners to the Supreme Council. We have 300,000 officials in Ukraine, 170,000 of them pensioners. Young boys, college girls quit, at best they go to the markets with a degree in higher education to trade and have no opportunity to earn their pension. And in the worst case, there's no work at all. And the people in the public service, five, seven thousand dollars a pension, earned and continued to work. I've earned a pension. Go home and baby-sit your grandkids. Allow young people to come to power, allow young people to work, earn, give birth, and put them on their feet. This is the first thing that must happen. And second, what's most important is the change in economic policy. We have to understand once and for all, if we don't rebuild our own production, if we don't give people the opportunity to work, there is no future in our country. To restore national production, the government must not raise taxes but lower taxes. We should have interest rates on loans for a maximum of 3-5 percent a year, as in all countries of the world, not as close as we have to 30 percent. Therefore, the conclusion is that young people should have a job, so that older people can have a job. For consider pension reform. He has raised people to a retirement age, and today people do not even have the opportunity to earn a pension today. To change this situation, we need to change radically economic policies for the benefit of a national producer. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u139	Please turn on the microphone to the Black People's Deputy, the faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u140	The Black Galina, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Respectable Society! Of course, this bill is very relevant. And it's very relevant, especially for the West Ukrainians, who often end up in higher education today and think about how to make a living. For wages in Italy, Portugal, and elsewhere in the world, it is said that it is long for a carburetor to somehow make ends meet. But it must be said that this law was to be approved. It is vital to inform young people today of what benefits they will have along with their approval. Because as we have very often today, there are many bills. The bill is approved. And anyone who can benefit from it, who can benefit from it, does not even know about it, nor does he know about it. What is the situation today for students who graduate from higher education institutions? Very often, after completing college, the student seeks work for some time, and after not finding it because of various sources of search, they remain unemployed for a long time. So I would say that it's very important not only to pass this law, but to make sure that high school graduates know about their rights, they know what they can use. Because the result of this lack of information is, in particular, very poor employment statistics. We saw the Minister of Social Policy speak and said that we had about a few hundred thousand unemployed. But in fact, according to the International Labour Organization, the number of unemployed Ukrainians in Ukraine today is much higher and represents at least 7 percent of the working population. Similarly, we need to make sure that the students themselves are able to get a job after completing their higher education. To do this, we have, first of all, to provide them with quality and correct statistics on what kind of specialists are most needed in Ukraine today, so that the student, in his choice of skills, in choosing a higher primary school, knows how much. He's got a chance to get a job. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u141	Thank you. Please turn on the microphone of the National MP Marcinkov, the faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u142	Please pass the word to Ruslan Zelik.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u143	Thank you. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u144	Ruslan Zelik, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. In fact, you see which one. How much discussion this bill called for, which was discussed with us on the committee. And I want to say that I really appreciate the authority of Jaroslav Mikhailovich, and on the committee, I consider him to be my teacher, so "the bad student who doesn't scratch the feathers of his teacher's hat." What I'm saying is, if you count that there are 20,000 graduates of higher education, vocational and technical schools to be employed in a year, it's a very large number of people, and it's a social insurance fund in case of unemployment. Well, he wasn't thrilled at the committee meeting because he was going to have to pay so much money, because they are. Very few have the money they can pay for today. So this is kind of one point that I want to point out. There's another moment. After all, if our graduates go to work at state institutions. Well, then this compensation to entrepreneurs will come from the State Budget. It's not just the money, it's the government budget. But in principle, I would like to point out that if they were to come from the State budget, the drafter of the bill would have to give a financial and economic justification: how much of these costs would come from the State budget and where they would be taken in accordance with article 27 of the Ukrainian Budget Code. But the law is necessary. The law needs to be adopted. Clearly, it will be further developed by reading. I mean, it's very appropriate when compensation goes to employers, and they won't worry about spending their money. And those young people who, by the way, don't want to take too much right now after graduation, because there's no experience, they're going to be able to get that experience. I think it's right on the one hand and on the other hand when both have certain mechanisms to ensure their work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u145	Thank you. The time for the National Deputies is running out. Is there a desire for factions? Sign up for factions, please. Please, from the Vitalia Klitschka faction of the People's Deputy Pinzenic.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u146	Dear National Deputies! I could not miss the opportunity of using an overcrowded hall, such an active discussion, to stand in the way of this law. An extremely important law. It's very important. You know, if laws were to create jobs, you'd have to vote, I'd obviously give up my voice. But the adoption of the law does not create jobs. Jobs will create investment. And to create jobs, you have to create an investment climate. And no law that says "create jobs" is increasing the number of jobs. It can only be about changing the structure. You know. To give a job to a child, it is absurd for me to have to get rid of the work of a father, a mother, or a brother who is already working. If we want to give a serious answer to jobs. I'm sorry. This is being addressed, not by these laws, but by creating conditions for investment in the national economy. And for that, unfortunately, there are a lot of problems. But there is another problem: tax. Please tell me, what is the purpose of people's business? Well, I'm not going to make a discovery, their goal is to make money. Please tell me, when a person comes in looking for a job, gives the owner an opportunity to make money, does he have to pay the bonus? Please tell me, does this contribute to the investment climate when one pays the social security premium and the other doesn't? This destroys the investment climate. From the point of view of conditions for job creation, this law will help as much as a dead park. And the aid for corruption, of course, provides conditions for corruption. Therefore, dear friends, stand on a sinful earth and make a decision that fits logic. This law does not decide anything.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u147	From the faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, National Deputy Leonov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u148	Please pass the word to Alexander Oxentiyovich Shevchenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u149	I fully share Victor Mikhailovich's opinion. You know, the empty law is absolutely the paternalism that manifests itself, and our state follows the former Soviet Union. Instead of giving the opportunity, as Viktor Mikhailovich really said, to be able to create jobs, really be. To make students want to learn. What are we doing? We've created a lot of private schools. What? To pay and to take. Imagine, just students of lawyers, specialists today -- 40,000 unemployed on the market. Where are they gonna be released, for what? I'm asking you. If that's the law, really. Easy to say, fire the pensioner. Except for this pensioner. Why don't you take the young man, he'll work?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u150	Who will if he has no knowledge? Have you ever not worked or not? When I'm in the Institute of Postgraduate Education, I'm giving a lecture, and I'm having a student exam, and I'm asking, "What's your previous education?" And he says, "Legislative." I say, "What did you finish?" I don't want to call college, by the way, state college. He says it's like that. I say, "Are you crazy or what?" And he says, "That's an impeccable diploma." The University of Kiev, I said, is prestigious. Do you understand or not? I mean, there's, if you're learning, there's a degree that's impeccable, and there's no knowledge. It can't work. Although it's a state college. Ladies and gentlemen! What are we doing? And we continue to print these specialists. And now we have to put these losers, those who have no knowledge, on the job? We have to kill our grandfather or our father so he can take his place, right?Oh, my God! What are you doing? How many wonders can that be? But give him the opportunity to earn his own money. Really, make room. And this needs to be developed in the economy, we need to develop science. It is necessary to select people who have a propensity for learning. And we're all going to teach them. What can we learn?Oh, my God! You know very well that each one has his own inclination, his own mathematics, his own history, his own literature. And so on and so forth. Are we all scratching each other?Oh, my God! How much can you do? Obviously, you have to think about it and not do it with populism, what are you going to give space to?Oh, my God! Where will you take them?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u151	Thank you. From the Fatherland faction to the performance, I invite the national deputy of Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u152	Vladimir Yavorowski, Trinity, Fatherland. Society, it is good that we are discussing this problem today with these pitiful remnants of the Ukrainian Parliament. [[B in m in s a l in]] Except "Freedom," except "Freedom." Here. I am convinced that we are in vain, in vain, that some of us are pissing on Pinzenic. He's right about one thing. In the economic recovery of our economy, with the recovery of our economy, with the usual investment, we can solve not only this problem, but a thousand other problems. Pinzenik is right about that. But I'm sure he's not right about this law actually being thrown out, and that's not necessary, because there's going to be corruption. Today, we have a country that does not start with corruption. That's understandable. Because of that. This law is necessary. I'm sure we should accept it, because I can see that another problem that we've hardly touched with ricochet today. What's another problem and I'd like to put it on right now, and for that, I went up to the rostrum to emphasize it. This is because, in connection with such a democratization of our education, we today have created so many false institutions that no one really needs us, that we really do not know where the graduates of these institutions are going. You know, I'm not going to call it here because it touches one of our colleagues, who is fortunately missing now. This is, for example, when the institute, which now seems to be diplomats, we have the Institute of International Relations, which is preparing and Mr. Shevchenko represents it. So in many colleges today, many universities suddenly create more faculties of internationalism. What are these internationals? What are they? I'm not saying that we're going to have wigs getting higher education right now, that kind of thing. We have a theatrical, beautiful institute, a cinematographic institute. He knows Bogdan well. Yeah, no. Actors are still being released in several colleges. But we have nothing to do with these. Because of this, it would also have to be hard to bring about a certain system of things and, indeed, we have to have as many institutions as it takes specialists to have a nation exist, to have an industry, to have our culture, to have our spirituality, and then many things will happen in their legal places. But this law should normally be adopted, and it will resolve for a short period of time if it solves the problem in general. And Suhiy, of course, was good enough to pass this bill. And it's a good thing he's the only one representing our former Party of Regions today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u153	Please, from the non-fractionals, Rudzkowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u154	Dear colleagues, on May 1, a left - hand block, along with carefree people, went to the Cabinet of Ministers, demanding an increase in salaries, pensions, and scholarships of 30 percent. People have come up with a requirement to create new jobs for young people. So today's law, which we're considering, is exactly what solves this problem. Because unfortunately, theorists, Victor Mikhailovich, are preparing for today's youth, who after the end of the U.S.U. can't be an expert who can be an effective industrial engineer. So this program that allows the student to come, in two years, to get State support, to create a job, they're going to move our industry, our economy with their experience and theoretical knowledge to a very different level that will ensure Ukraine's competitiveness in the world distribution of products. Dear colleagues, I believe. That if we pass such laws, we don't support young people, we don't have to come to this Supreme Council at all, go to the elections, and allow those who care about Ukraine, about production, about its future. The other one. Today, after listening to the government, who said that he had quietly taken a secret decision to open a grave in the Chernobyl area, where nuclear fuel would be stored by Ukraine and all of Europe is a crime. The government was, not enough, and if it works like that, it's criminal. I guarantee you, I have the constituency of Kozelecki, Bobrowski, Prilutsky. The Kozelet region is 10 times more oncosa than the average in Ukraine. We will not allow this grave to increase oncosis in Ukraine, Kiev. Everyone who cares will go out there and won't even let a shovel kick to build a tomb there. The government, when the war is coming, wants to hide its crimes. If we're taking money to Europe, we shouldn't count on our own ecology, after all.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u155	Closer to the subject, to the law, if possible.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u156	Thank you. The law must be maintained, and the government must be held accountable.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u157	Then I'll ask, we have a government representative. Mr. Ivankevitch Victor Viktorovich, please comment on the bill. Your position, government position, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u158	Ladies and gentlemen, I'll just give you a few figures. Today, Ukraine’s largest youth unemployment rate is 46 percent. Six hundred thousand graduates of colleges fill the labour market each year. And the Ministry of Social Policy supports this bill. This is one option for young people to be employed in jobs in the official, not the shadow sector of the economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u159	Thank you. I hope we have discussed the bill in full at the request of the author. We won't be here, we'll postpone the vote. Let's move on to the next order of the day. The next draft of Law 1043 is a bill introducing a moratorium on forced housing. The reporter is Goncharov Sergey Vasilovich. None. Well, then we'll take that question. The next item on the agenda is the draft Law (registration number 1220-d). Draft Law on Amendments to Article 107 of the Code of Laws on the Work of Ukraine (for pay on holidays and nonworking days). Here's to Dry Jaroslav Mikhailovich. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear Society, I ask you to.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u160	Dear colleagues, I'll be brief. The point is, Alexander Mikolayovich Stoyan is sick, and I'm going to tell you from the committee the essence of this bill. But thank you all for having an active part in discussing the previous bill. Volodymyr Alexanderovich, you've washed up, the pitiful remains aren't us, they're left behind like foam and they're gone. And we sit here and we keep our oath and the oath we made here on this stand. And one more thing, I'm sorry, I never do that, because the law is different. Well, I don't know where these liberalistic views came from: come on, let him look for a job if he doesn't find one, let him shoot himself. You, Professor, are you immediately so wise and so scientific? With you after the institute, the university didn't teach you anything? I remember my postgraduate work as my nose was rung, letters were copied, and information was given, and so on. So is the factory. There's a graduate from the Institute, he needs to be taught there for two years. Because one thing is a coworker for a bottle of cognac, which you can put in your colleges, and quite another for a factory, when you need to get into a particular topic and calculate a certain beam. That's why I thank you all. And the fact that lively interest is wonderful. We talked about our young people, about our future, what it's going to be like. It's an investment, it's a sacred thing, and it's a quality of training specialists. The draft is now being reintroduced before us (1220). He talks about paying for the work during the holidays and off - schedule. You know that there are two pay standards in Ukraine: weather and daytime. Thus, the drafters of the bill amend article 107 of the Constitution. Today, work on such days is paid to workers whose work is paid at a daily and hourly rate of two hours or a day’s wage. And now it's offered in size, if this work was done on a holiday and non-work day within the monthly working time, twice an hour or a day's wage, if the work was carried out above the monthly standard. We've already rejected this bill, and I'll tell you why. Because the Labour Code, which we are trying to regulate here, was adopted in December 1971. And long ago, this Labour Code no longer regulates anything. Of the 18 chapters, only eight are still working, others can be deleted. Of the 265 articles 30 have been deleted, 22 have been modified. So the committee is proposing this bill to vote on the session hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u161	Thank you. People's deputies, if necessary, will we discuss them? Yes. Well, then let's say who has a wish, then on the raised hand, so that we don't write it down, it's not that big. Please turn on the microphone to the People's Deputy Opanaschenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u162	Dear colleagues, such bills that protect the working population are really, really useful. But here's the previous law on how to organize young people, and all the last laws that apply to work, I want to say one thing. We don't have a decent grade of work in Ukraine to solve this whole problem. This, you know, has to go from the other side. And if we have a minimum wage of a thousand dollars that doesn't even provide treatment for a person, and I don't want to talk about raising my children at all, even though this minimum wage should include it. And we put it separately in budgets, we generally accept it in all the lists, so we will never have jobs in Ukraine, nor will we have the interest of young people to stay in the country, and therefore we will have normal professionals. The long-balanced minimum wage rate by the International Associations of Trade and Employers is 32 bracelets minimum, if according to our course today, we have seven. So if we don't raise the minimum wage of a working person for at least 25 dollars, all these bills can not even be considered and nothing will happen. We will not be able to fail to develop business properly because there will be no professionals, no education, because no one will be interested in it. So in the shortest term, we also need to consider bills that relate to raising the minimum wage. I took them and fixed them at 25 dollars, and this, you know, is not the main wealth of the state that it's not the capital. It's a small cost, it's a labor resource. There will be no working resources, no healthy, secure resources, nothing in our country at all. That's why, of course, I support this bill. I find it very useful. But once again I insist and turn to the hall. We all need to work together and work together to provide for our people, raise our wages, and people will give us the story. If we abuse and put our population under genocide, it's genocide. And it's those international organizations that offer us loans and tell us to cut the minimum wage, that they're interested in the genocide of the Ukrainian people. For a thousand bracelets, it is impossible to treat or raise children or even feel healthy. How do the children of those who work in the countryside differ from those of those who sit here in the Supreme Council? And if we can't get the salary to 25 dollars at least by the time, we don't have the price, or the government, or our deputies. There are mandates and resignations, and so is the government. So I'm talking to everyone that's very important, and this bill is very important. And I would like everyone to gather to raise the wages of our citizens. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u163	Please turn on the microphone to the national deputy Zelik, then Rudzikowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u164	Ruslan Zelik, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear society, you know, it's really sad when in the past power of the Committee on Social Policy and Work has worked on a very large number of drafts in its sessions. And then under that authority, and now those bills don't go into the days when the MPs are fully present in the hall. And so it seems that these social issues, the issues of social protection, social security, social security, they're out of the question today. Yes, it is clear that there is a military force on the east side today, it is imperative to support the army, it is imperative to support our military personnel, but it is also important to support those people we now have in our country more than 60 percent of those who are socially vulnerable. So the bill is, as it were, predicts that an employer who uses a job, he or she has to pay a person for work, for work on non-work and holidays, and if not, then he can compensate himself for not using the job. And people can pay more attention to themselves and more attention to their families during those holidays. We will support this bill, we will vote for it. And I think it's the right thing to do, and it's going to provide an opportunity for those social guarantees, for the social protection of working people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u165	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Rudzkowski. Prepare the national deputy, Shevchenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u166	Dear colleagues! Dear citizens of Ukraine! There is a big problem in Ukraine – the absence of social policy by the state as such. We have a government decision to freeze wages, pensions, scholarships, and at that time, 50 percent of the price of gas, 60 percent of the price of utilities, 50 percent of the price of food. When we ask questions, people who care about people's lives and standards of living, about to raise wages, pensions, scholarships by at least 30 percent, the government says we don't have opportunities. You're funding the divisive states of the budget, you're funding the divisive states of your officials, you're saying that the cut-offs at the end of the hole to escape capital and avoid taxation, we can't, the Ukrainian people can't accept that approach. In her time when Mrs. Denisova Ludmila Leontievna was in opposition, she went out three times to this rostrum and presented the Law on the Distinguishment of Pension Reform. Three times. I spoke to her three times after she became minister. Three times he went to the rostrum and asked the question: The Law on the Distinguishment of Pension Reform needed to be included, as all Ukrainian citizens required it. I'm surprised. Presidential candidates are coming, more than the factions that are now in the majority. I wonder what they're saying to their voters who are coming to their meetings. Why do they not commit themselves to abolishing this shameful pension reform? There are only some MPs in Parliament who stand in this position. I insist that on Tuesday's presidential election, I urge you to put this question to a vote, to vote, and to understand who is ultimately in the position of the people, and who is only in the hands of demagogies. When we're in opposition, we're in contrast to pension reform; we're sitting in a minister's chair -- we forget about people. The same is true of the minimum wage. There will be no minimum wage, no appreciation for human labor in Ukraine, no goal and no boss in Ukraine, and there will be no policy, unfortunately, of an active government, because it is an oligarchy government, unfortunately, and it does not pursue any social policy. We're talking about.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u167	Thank you. People's MP Pinzenik, please. Then it'll be Easy. I'm sorry, Victor Mikhailovich. I've already announced Shewchenk Alexander Alexandrovich. After. If you don't mind, after him. I've announced before.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u168	Alexander Shevchenko, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. I wonder why only changes or additions are made. A new draft of the Ukrainian Labour Code has been prepared. I'll take a look at some of it, and I'll tell you that there are some novels in it that we should talk about exactly the ones contained in the new Labour Code. But I usually support raising wages or doubling them on holidays and nonworking days. At the same time, I'd like to raise the issue of the position of employees in general, pay for their work. The fact is that today our society is polarized into a small group of rich and large numbers of poor people. Does the Supreme Council have any opinion of this imbalance that exists in society, whether to eliminate it or not? By the way, it should be said that the form of ownership in the world is first in the developed democratic countries, and that there is a collective form of ownership. So the workers are the owners of the production. In second place, it's 25 percent, it's state property. And in third place, private property, 25 percent. And the collective form of ownership is 50. And there the workers participate in the distribution of profits. And income is allocated not only to the workers themselves but also to the unemployed, as well as to the children under 16 and to the children who are learning, up to 18 years of age. So in advanced democratic countries, there's quite a bit of good worker protection and they're distributed. When might this be a question for us to solve in this way? We used to have vouchers, but they were bought for a bottle of vodka, says every employee. And people became billionaires in one day or in a few days. And today they're making all the profits. We have to, in view of this situation, adopt laws that we're bound by, well, for example, 80 to 20. 80 percent of the profits should be distributed to employees and only 20 percent, for example, to the owner. Or even lower that ratio. This will be justice, not double or increase wages on holidays and on weekdays. I call for such bills to be drafted and, by the way, in the new Labour Code, we would need to make this happen.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u169	Thank you. May I have the floor of the People's Deputy Pinzenic?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u170	Dear colleagues, I don't know if this room is worth it. But it is very important for Ukrainian society to understand some things that may not have a bearing on this law. But since this subject has not been raised once in a while. There are laws where you can teach someone, you can't teach them, it won't help. But this law keeps the economy going. We can't share what we don't have. Ukraine releases a gross domestic product per person — 30,000 dollars a year. On average, there are 2.5 thousand dollars per month. What Is Money? I'm talking about the money equivalent. Money is paper. It's just a tool that helps people share their products. And since you're going to make these papers more, you don't make people happy. To give people a real table, you need to increase the economy. I want to go back to the last question. I am sorry to hear what is said in this room. Do not contradict the generation. Our job is to create a job for both young and older people. And there shouldn't be a conflict here. You won't create a pen with one stroke. There are a number of problems that prevent the Ukrainian economy from rising. And our efforts must be directed at this. Because then the GDP will increase, and then we will be obliged to raise people’s real standard of living rather than to pursue empty promises.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u171	Thank you. The final speech of the national deputy Lašká, and we stop. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u172	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. You know, by listening to Victor Mikhailovich Pinzenik, who talks, it would seem, smart things. But I have one question for you. Victor Mikhailovich, I finished school as you sat on the Supreme Council. In the '90s, in power. Why haven't you done anything in 23 years of independence? You're sitting in the Supreme Council, you've held positions in all governments, and you've done nothing. But the whole nation remembers your voucher privatization, which resulted in a dozen oligarchs and millions of people who don’t get a penny on their dividends. So, I think that before anyone's lectures, we should keep our jobs up to date. As far as wages are concerned. Well, it's no secret to anyone that big business owners put 90 percent or more of what they earn in their pocket. And thousands of labor groups working in this company share 10 percent of their earnings. It's definitely wrong. Because if he does, at least 40 to 50 percent of what he's earned, as in the United States, as in Europe, should go to the workers who create this added value. We've raised hundreds of billions of dollars of loans, dollars of loans. Show me where the jobs are. Once again, they took $7 billion in loans. Where will they go? To cover budget deficits, to eat. Where would they go? To create jobs, to create production, so that it's not just possible to return these loans with interest, but also to keep something else. In 23 years, we're just picking up, picking up, picking up. Stealing, stealing, lying, stealing, and lying. And then they say there's nothing going on in Ukraine. Thus, economic policy in Ukraine needs to be radically changed. And this policy should be based on the restoration of national production, on the creation of an investment climate. What is an investment climate conducive? It's independent justice. It's the absence of bribe officials, it's the deregulation of the economy, it's normal taxes that people can pay, not hide from high taxes, it's cheap credit resources. So any young guy or girl goes to the bank, they take credit, they start their own business. That's what a favourable investment climate is! Who can do this?Oh, my God! Not the kind that's been wrecking the country for 20 years. You have to bring new people, you have to make radical changes in the country's life, you have to bring young people to power. And only young people are able to bring order to this country. And those who give lectures to young ones, we sincerely thank you for your advice, for your knowledge, and so forth. But go, free the country from its rule! Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u173	Please, a minute for the lineup. People's MP Pinzenik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u174	Dear colleagues, of course I'm not going to argue with some MPs. I've never done that, because I don't see a problem for discussion, there's no subject. But I hope we have a lot of thinking people who are able to hear, able to put their heads on. The problem in a country is that when it comes to making decisions in a country, it is quite obvious. Because we have some politicians, whether with horns or with pitchforks, who go around the country and promise to make the necessary decisions that prevent the country from developing.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u175	I would like to take you to the floor of the government of Ivankevitch Victor Viktorovich. Please, your recommendations on this bill. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u176	Ladies and gentlemen, the bill provides for a change of standard. Today, there is a valid norm when a person works on weekends and holidays is compensated on a double scale. If you're consciously going to make a decision today to change this rule from double compensation to triple compensation, then there's only one request that you've forgotten one category, it's those workers who work at separate prices. In general, this rule should be governed by collective agreements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u177	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we have discussed this bill. I don't think it's necessary to vote now, either, given the number of people in the session room. I'm going to suggest you move on to the question of "Crazy." We've got an hour for the Miscellaneous. Then I will ask all the national deputies who wish to speak to you to sign up. Please, a speech by the People's Deputy Furman. Prepare the National Deputy, Shevchenkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u178	Dear Chairman, colleagues, voters! Please consider my statement to be a parliamentary request. A few months later, Ukraine lost its criminal power. Yet some of the centres of the former criminal regime continue to work in the information agencies and not only today. Surprisingly, the situation has arisen around the media of state and municipal property and the leaders of Winnitzkin. In the course of the Dignity Revolutions, the State Broadcasting Company, once again, stresses, the State Broadcasting Company "INTERA", its leader Lovev Kovalenko and the newspaper, the newspaper "Vinnicina" public newspaper, led by the editor-in-chief of Dobrin's fire and sword, destroyed the revolution on Winnitzkin. But since the end of the Dignity Revolution, there have been all those who have controlled the information block of the district government, including the head of the TRC "INTERA" Love Kovalenko and the editor-in-chief of the Vinnitztina newspaper Love Dobrinska. The leaders of the National Council of the Authority, which was created by the activists of Vinnický Eromydan when signing in January a memorandum for the release of the seized room, demanded that the authorities release the Head of the State Broadcasting Company Love Kovalenko and the editor-in-chief of the Vinnitzkin newspaper Love Dobrinski, because everyone understood that they were the main performer of the brutal and lying information company led by the authorities on Winnichkin in 2010-2014 against the opponents. For example, Lovev Dobrinska is the editor of the newspaper, which has always been the backbone of the Vinickian Authority of the Party of the Regions. The Vinicchina newspaper has long been edited by the blood regime of Yanukovic, which has severely destroyed Ukraine. And the editor - in - charge was forcing newspaper correspondents to distort real facts and events in Winnice and the area. Journalists were deprived of basic principles such as non-involvement of executive authorities and local self-government bodies in editorial politics of the printed medium and the equal opportunity to express opinions on social and political events on newspapers to representatives of other political forces. I am convinced that TRC "INTERA" and the newspaper "Vinnica" are a group of interesting and talented people who did not always share the position of leadership but were afraid to be relieved of their positions for the disclosure of objective information, as there was a hard censorship on the subject of the real state of things in the economy and in the social and political life of Winnitzka. I'm familiar with a lot of local journalists, and in private conversations with them, they're constantly complaining about the opacity of the TRC manager's "INTERA" and the newspaper "Vinitzchina". I'm going to point out that for two months there was a Dignity Revolution. A vineyard in one square.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u179	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u180	Majdan, next to the radio company, did not come out or explain any of the events. It was only after the pressure of the public that the so - called leaders began to produce a direct broadcast from the area. What was particularly striking was that during the DDT-6 Dignity Revolution, Russian television programmes, namely the enemy of the Ukrainian people, Kiselev, were being retransmitted. To, for example, get on the air or rent a meeting room.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u181	If you could just finish it, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u182	Let me remind you of one situation. Yesterday, we had a visit with Deputy Bogdan Benjuk. Before ordering the hall, we came to the same Love Kovalenko in TRC "Vinitzchina", and she refused to give us a hall for National Deputy Benjuk in connection with the fact that, as she said, he insulted a colleague.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u183	Thank you. May I have the floor of the people's deputy, Shevchenk?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u184	Dear national MPs, distinguished voters! I wanted to focus on the current situation of the Ukrainian State. The whole point is that our nation, essentially national, has existed for about 23 years, and today there is a threat to its destruction. If earlier, during the 20th century, Ukrainians were physically destroyed in wars, reprisals, the Great Holocaust, then not only are the Ukrainians being shot, destroyed, but they are also trying to destroy their state. And the danger comes from an ancient enemy of Ukraine, Russia. Today, various methods are not purely military. So our opponent is trying to break our non-military power and our willpower. That's what's important. And that's what he does with a variety of methods. Today, the hope of Ukraine is that of nationalists. These are patriots who love their people, their language, their history, their culture, who want to work for them, for the benefit of the entire Ukrainian society. Unlike essentially ethnic nationalists, for example, who wore Nazi clothes or Communism. We do not distinguish people by blood, we distinguish them by treatment of Ukrainians, Ukrainians, Ukrainian literature, Ukrainian literature, Ukrainian history, and so forth. And those who have fundamentally ethnically distinguished people today are essentially chauvinists, and this chauvinism is manifest today in Eastern Ukraine. I think that in those cities of eastern Ukraine, people in the morgues, with guns in their hands, became commonplace because the authorities were just as scary as they were able to take down. And today, the only way we can do this is to get those people with guns to put it together and start building a democratic and constituency Ukraine. Without national inspiration, it will not be possible to reform Ukraine without patriotism. And we're asking the main question in the daytime.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u185	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u186	It is the inspiration of patriots to transform into legislation, into reforming the legal and judicial system. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u187	The People’s Deputy, Suhi, gives his word to the national deputy Sameilenka. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u188	Honorable MPs, distinguished voters! In the preelection race came the peak of lies. Presidential candidates. As on Maidan, they make promises, drag Ukraine into a European paradise, paying for its sovereign pursuits, human lives. Too bad that many people naively believe in this Pharisee. Yet, most on their own have experienced the fulfillment of the requirements of the courts, and we see them on posters with hundreds of people standing under the walls of the Supreme Council every day. They demand paybacks, pay back savings, stop the trainee, stop the price hikes for drugs, utilities, protect the niggers, war children, ensure peace and tranquillity. The disaster brought my countrymen here, a group of the Žitomir liquor plant, which across the throat became the so-called DUSS. With long - range plans, his leadership decided to appoint its director, the business manager, to go bankrupt. Knowing this, the people did not even allow him into the territory. But this, like the official request to take into account their opinion of the new assignments left in this position of acting leader, did not affect the high officials of the Duc, they secondly, thirdly, fourthly, they take their crystal from Kiev, in their paws, a clean man. And once again, strikes, rallying, calling on the authorities, because they know that by such an appointment, the bankruptcy of the enterprise and the acceptance. And that's really true, because this factory is highly cost-effective, and every month, the government execution gives 14 million dollars, the easy bite. How can you let go of a layer like that? So the DUSS is in a hurry, and the leaders of which, when they meet with the rallying factories, have declared, privatize the enterprise to the presidential elections. And they will do so without prior notice of the competition, without the participation of the team, because behind all this are the competent men, the MPs who are sitting in this room, continuing the appeals of Janukovic's case. Come to your senses, remember! Don't take the last faith in justice, integrity and honesty in the 500th-century community, which is advocated by the Communist Party MPs, for which you want to ban it so they don't interfere with the State. Please consider this statement to be a parliamentary request to the Prime Minister, Mr. Yatsenuk. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u189	May I have the floor of the Zarubinsky People's Deputy. To prepare for the People's Deputy of Marchinkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u190	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! Persons authorized to perform functions of state and local self-government: The President of Ukraine, members of the Cabinet of Ministers, members of all levels, heads of state executive bodies, government officials, play an important role or play an important role in the purpose and exercise of the basic functions of the State and local self-government. That is why high selection criteria must be applied to those who claim to be such positions. Some of these requirements are already laid down in legislation. These include the price of age, higher education, vocational education, work experience, and the frequency of declaration of own income and expenditure. Moreover, one condition that applies to those who claim to take office in public authorities or local governments is the proper state of health. It is for its identification that medical assistance is provided. This is understandable in view of the need for officials to perform their duties on a permanent basis, that is, without prolonged interruptions in treatment or rehabilitation. At the same time, if physical health is monitored during the adoption of a suitable position, mental health control of those claiming to perform the functions of the State is virtually not applied. At the same time, the mental health of the individual is not smaller, but at times, taking into account individual statements and actions, and a greater role in their exercise of authority in the perception of both Ukrainian society and the international community. What is it? Look, dear fellows. Today, psychiatric science is known for diseases that may have a negative impact on the exercise of authority by officials. It's about diseases like paranoia. And this is a chronic mental illness that is characterized by a systematic hallucination in the relative preservation of intelligence. It's schizophrenicism, which is a deterioration in perception of reality and a significant social dysfunction. This is kleptomania, a pathologically strong desire to steal and some others. Ladies and gentlemen, these are diseases that need to be treated. And people with these diseases cannot hold positions. That is why, the honourable chairman, the honourable colleagues, I passed a bill on time, which deals with the obligation to determine the mental state of a person who claims to take up a position related to the performance of the functions of the State and local self - government. I beg you to put it in the agenda, because it's been hanging for a long time, and it's very important and necessary to Ukrainian society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u191	I would like to welcome you to the floor of the People's Deputies of Marchinkov. Prepare the people's representative, Bublik.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u192	Ruslan Marcinkov, All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Today I have the opportunity as an authorized faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Association of Oleg Tuggnibok to be in Montenegro almost every day, where he was born, I have meetings with working groups, military personnel, residents of the country. The Montenegrin region is a border area with Russia and Belarus. Many men are now mobilized to the military, many of whom protect Ukrainians from terrorists and bastards in the Luhansk and Donetsk region. Anxiety is felt in the eyes of people at meetings, although patriotism and the Ukrainian spirit are more than ever present in the Black Cossack region. As a result, the attempt of separatists and terrorists to conduct their anti - Ukrainian activities in the North was completely eliminated. But there are a lot of problems for military personnel who tell me when they meet with voters: First. A small number of honest patriotic officers in the Ukrainian Armed Forces. This is especially felt in the command lineup. At least we can't talk about everyone. During the years of independence, the training of the commanders of the Ukrainian Armed Forces has been destroyed, and this is now very much felt. So Freedom requires the adoption of the decree of the national deputy Yuri Orotyuk and the immediate restoration of military pulpits and training facilities for the training of patriotic officers. The lack of clarity of political and explanatory work in the military and, as a result, people do not know what kind of salary they have, what time they have been called upon, and what their families can count on as a result of possible military action that creates considerable social tension. Therefore, there is an urgent need to carry out the explanatory work of directing the Ukrainian Armed Forces and restoring political work rather than sitting on headquarters and military committees. Third. The absence of the state's repayment of loans that military officials are called upon to pay. Therefore, there is an urgent need to work with banking institutions and government officials, and an appropriate parliamentary request has been accepted today. They're especially complaining about the Private Bank network. Four. Lack of basic technical equipment and equipment. The logical question of the military and the electorate is, "And for what millions of dollars have been raised by the Ukrainians at the expense of the Ministry of Defence." We therefore demand that the Ministry of Defence be accountable today for the funds that the citizens of Ukraine have paid. Another problem is the lack of coordination between the authorities and the Armed Forces on the ground and. As a result, this reduces the sense of need for Ukrainian military personnel, and this needs to be done immediately. Visiting the Pricks, Nižin, Kozelečina, there is a significant increase in patriotism and devotion to its state, but today the Freedom of Oleg Tuggnibok demands determination from the Ministry of Defence and Home Affairs to preserve the Ukrainian state, and then we will not feed a foreign army. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u193	The People’s Deputy Bublik gives his word to the People’s Deputy Pankević. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u194	Honorable Society, Brothers and Sisters of Ukraine! The All-Ukrainian "Freedom" union expresses its gratitude to the Ukrainian military and forces for the efforts and preservation of Ukraine's territorial integrity. We are also grateful to all Ukrainian patriots for maintaining a patriotic spirit and continuing to fight despite the repression in hostile territories. Today we can confidently say that the Putinian Russia, despite millions of budgets for misinformation, bribery and welfare, has failed to break Ukrainians. What's more, there's a growing proportion of Ukrainian citizens in eastern Ukraine who are beginning to distinguish between the truth and the lie, to realize that those who have stolen Ukraine today are hiding behind the slogan of Donbas, who "do not hear." Similarly, Russia failed to convince the world of its own involvement in aggression in Ukraine. The world is increasingly looking at Putinian Russia as a barbarian of the 21st century and at Putin himself as a new Hitler. But in this difficult time, we don't have the right to rely entirely on only external factors to protect our country -- to cherish our Ukrainian power. At the same time, the positive efforts of the international community must not be overlooked. First of all, the European Union and the United States. Because a number of economic sanctions have been introduced to correct the behavior of an aggressor. We are grateful for this and would like to count on the continuation and strengthening of Ukraine’s support policy. Because Ukraine cannot remain alone because the neo-imperialism of Putin can easily move beyond our state, into other territories, into other states. And most importantly, right now. We have to say that despite Putin’s alleged Russian-speaking settlement in Ukraine, we see the opposite, we see anti-Ukrainian terror. People who call themselves militias are hunting people who use the Ukrainian language, who dress up in national clothes, who show respect for the national symbols of Ukraine. Ukrainians are intimidated, kidnapped, tortured or killed. At the same time, this can be described as ethnic cleansing, a policy of disposing of members of a separate national group from certain territories. In our case, it is the Ukrainians who are ousted from their God - given land. In 1999, the associates of Milosevic were placed before the Hague Tribunal for ethnic cleansing among Kosovo Albanians. Today, the All-Ukrainian Union of Freedom addresses the government of Ukraine and the international community with a request to initiate the improvement of the international
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u195	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u196	Improving the international system of justice with the aim of condemning similar crimes of military aggression by Russia, which today is a sponsor of terrorism against Ukraine and the world. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u197	May I have the floor of the People's Deputy Demedyuk. Prepare the national deputy of Goncharov.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u198	Basil Demeduk, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. Dear voters, there are Ukrainian national deputies! I began this morning with tears in my eyes from my mother, my parents, my wife, the boys from Volina, whom the new authorities had left behind. This is a military-related call for partial mobilization in accordance with Presidential Decree of 17 March 2014 (No. 303). Young sons and men from the military section of A2331 are currently in the Donetsk region. They are forced to sign contracts. In addition, the term they were to be assigned has long been due. But our children never returned to a permanent location for further military service in Volodymyr-Wollin County. On behalf of my mother, my wife, my parents, I demand that I return to the permanent location of the 51 mechanized military brigade of A2331. If the mother fails to comply, she will have to care for the work of the Ministry of Defence and the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Our faction will not continue to vote in favour of any bill until the new authorities ensure proper security for all the sons of our nation and end the war with their own people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u199	Before the speech of the People's Deputy Goncharov. Prepare the Zelik People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u200	Dear colleagues! Respectable residents of the town of Gorlovka, respected residents of Ukraine! I am speaking out of this high rostrum today so that the people of Gorlovka City will know all the demands that have arisen in eastern Ukraine, which you are talking about during March, April and May, and especially this has been confirmed on 11 May in a referendum where the activity of the inhabitants was much higher than in previous elections to the Supreme Council and the President, so that all these demands are heard by the central authorities, and they are resolved. They're like that. First. Federal device of the State. Dear friends, how long are we going to be scaring each other with that word? Today, residents of Gorlovka and miners understand that the federal structure is the financial balance of the region, the city, the area and the country as a whole. Today, Gorlovka citizens understand that today there is a European scholarship for our students. This requires that not one pensioner in Ukraine should have five or more employees. As is the case in European countries. Today, in order to have European wages, it takes a gross domestic product, not $4,000, as we have, but over $40, as in Germany. Ultimately, respectable friends in the struggle for power today, and everyone wants to be a local leader, district manager or leader of the country, need to be the main indicator in determining the programme. What about financial balance? What about the income and expenditure? If it is not less than expendable, then the programme can be followed and managed by a district, country or State. Dear friends, I also wanted to say about our direction to the European Union or to the Customs Union. We understand today that there must be a Government that will professionally define all the treaties that our country has and those that benefit from Europe or Africa, or.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u201	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u202	And then those contracts have to work, and then we can do it. And the last. Individual presidential candidates today say that if they suddenly lose, there could be a third revolution. Dear friends, we need not be intimidated by revolutions. Our miners say that if there is a revolution and the miners take part in it, then excuse me if there will be a country like Ukraine. We have to remember that! Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u203	May I have the floor of the Zelik People's Deputy. To prepare for the people's deputy, Dzardanov. The national deputy Zelik conveys the word to the national deputy Pharion.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u204	People! Well, where you've seen Parliament in the world to speak the occupying language from the highest legislative rostrum. Well, where you've seen, people, in a world of parliament, where from the highest rostrum they call for the destruction of the state through the so-called "favorable" word. Because I can't even say the word "federalization." I came out, I locked the door behind me! That's our job, actually, is to wipe the Party of Regions off the face of the land and a party of Communists. It's so bade away, as the English say, prelude to performance. Where did you see in the Polish Parliament that someone could speak a language rather than a Polish language? Where did you see in the Russian Duma the performance, not in Russian, but in another language? We spoiled them to the point that we crawled on our heads like these pigs, and we lowered our filthy paws! We came into politics to zero times those beings. And we will do our best to do so. Now, here's to the subject of my speech. So where do we get this problem in society? Why do we have a military war? But because for 20 years there has been a war of spiritual warfare, a language war, a historic war, a war of national self - awareness in eastern Ukraine. So all that's going on in Donbas is the result of our toothless, worthless or missing humanitarian policy. That's the first one. Secondly, this is due to the lack of adequate national-centric Ukrainian ideology. This is the result of the lack of adequate ideology throughout the education system, beginning with kindergarten and completing higher education. I hope that today's debate on the Committee on Education and the Science of the Higher Education Bill will fill this gap in our social development. Since this bill is brilliantly working on the national patriotic component of upbringing, then we won't have any freaks in the East who claim some of their strange rights. If they do not like it here, let them pack their suitcases and move to Putin and communicate with him in the language of the occupation of Ukraine, beginning in 1654. So it's the biggest. (Shut your mouth! ) So the biggest problem of today’s Ukraine is that it is affected by the germ of Moscow. As early as 1943, also during the war, an outstanding Ukrainian linguist, Vasil Simovich, said: "So to what extent must it be mossed in order to behave like this in his own country!".. So to what extent did we moss up that some part of society brought into Parliament a bunch of bastards who called themselves the Party of Regions and Communists. In addition, it is vital that we learn a valuable lesson in Ukrainian history, as Moscow in Galician was overcome. And unfortunately, this ideology was somehow there. So Moscow in Galicina ended with World War I. Then.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u205	Please finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u206	When a Moscow dirty boot came to my native Lviv land, when a Moscow dirty boot destroyed all Ukrainian schools, kindergartens, our nationalist organizations such as Sokol and Lug, and our Andrey Sheptic sent us to the white bears. It was then that when Galicina saw this Moscow beast, she sent it forever. So fighting mosquitoes is our most important task. And I want to finish my speech with a quote from the President. I don't think you can guess the name of this President right away. "You just don't have a path to regain your self-awareness and patriotism." Such expressions are not capable of those who are now boasting about ratings written for the orders of sociologists. Because this expression belongs to the President, who will enter world history, because this is Michael Saakashvili.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u207	May I have the floor of the People's Deputy, Mr. Dzardanov? Prepare the People's Deputy Mikhailenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u208	Dear Chairman, people of Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u209	There are no deputies in the room, so I'm not talking to you. First of all, I want to say a little entrance. When I think Girinovski was asked how fundamental the State Duma of Russia differs from the Supreme Council of Ukraine, he said, "We have no Farion." I beg you, I respect your views, but, yes, but that's the fact that it sounded on television. Now it's on the merits. In addition to the civil war that our precious Government has unleashed, to which we have contributed, to being elected, there are also domestic issues. In particular, there was an explosion in Nikolayev, the building with the destruction of the building, Lazurna 40, with the destruction of 3 floors, and in principle about 80 apartments, more than 200 inhabitants of Nikolayev. But a tragedy. Deplores the integrity of the authorities in force. So we have no order in the army, we have no order in the government, but we have no order in saving people. The dogs are the ones who are looking for the living and the inanimate in six hours. The crane that has to be saved from the wreckage of this building appeared quickly at first, but it turned out to be the wrong crane, a real normal crane in seven hours. The main thing is that for many years both the economy has fallen. The main thing is that the rescuers don't have modern equipment. The woman, the dogs, I don't know which one, they found in the daytime, she gave her voice. There were four deaths on the first floor, and seven people were killed. And with seven more wounded. Only three days later, the victims were found on the first floor. What's the MCS like? Well, the authorities are allocating funds now. I, today, have made a request for 50 million dollars to the city of Nikolayev. And the last two points, and they say, the communists don't offer anything. First. We have 20 years of former Ukrainian cruiser. Now they're afraid to call him a cruiser. There are 500 Marines and even the Navy headquarters. Second. The island of Maysky, where our Ukrainian Marine Cats were located, is a special army of special purpose. You've all buried it!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u210	People’s MP Mikhailenko is invited to attend. You'll still have time, Mrs. Irina, you still have a chance to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u211	Olga Mikhailenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine Bastards like you, Pharaoh, are destroying the country of Ukraine! And I propose to do a illustration in the Freedom faction, because this man in his own time, in Soviet times, was an honest communist regime, and today he is an avid oligarchic regime. It's a retreat. Respectable People's Deputies, voters! Communists have always advocated the integrity and sovereignty of our State. In due course, the Great Communists gathered all the lands together, and today it is bitter to realize that the new power and the Farion give free territory to our State. On this point, I would like to ask the Acting President a few questions. Unfortunately, he's gone. You say that Crimea is our land, that the citizens of Ukraine live there. And it is, and it's true, and we support it. So why is your appointment today, Mr. Odarchenko, Governor of Hersonian, so wildly covering the water for the people of Crimea where hersonian entrepreneurs grow, produce agricultural products? Why? And why is he disinforming the people of Hersonian today? Do you take the inhabitants of the peninsula into siege? Are you using medieval methods? Do you want people to starve to death without water? And after that, you want the Crimean to come back. And is it normal that today almost all the trains to the Crimea that went through Herson have been canceled? Okay? No, it's not normal! My countrymen also find no answer to the question: How was it possible to burn Odessites alive in the 21st century? Next. People want to know how many times the leadership of the State has met, not the oligarchs, not the leaders of different rank, but the ordinary citizens of our country, who have always held peace and well-being? What do people say today? Why do they obey and obey their leaders in the East and do not trust, trust, and ignore your appointments? I want you to answer those questions and then you'll understand that you've set fire to a skeleton, a skeleton of fratricidal civil war, and the collapse of the state's integrity. You did not give the voters the opportunity to hold an all-Ukrainian referendum on integration offered by the Company of Ukraine. That's why.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u212	People's deputy Qaeda, may I have your word? Thank you. To prepare for the People's Deputy Laishka. Mrs. Galina Black, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u213	The Black Galina, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Respectable association, little introduction. I recently said from this rostrum that Communists come here, except to use the rostrum to put all the roads on their feet, and as they did in Soviet times, to lie about the situation in the country. Now, about my speech. Those things, the terrible things that are happening today in Ukraine, are largely due to the fact that the previous authorities have not been able to exercise a direct, open Ukrainian position. And this is particularly true of the queen of information policy. Dear Society, we have had Russian television channels broadcast in Ukraine for many years, but the state was not curious about what was happening. For a long time there has been a phenomenon in Ukraine such as our native propagandist Kvasnuk in Odessa, who has been calling on Ukrainians, particularly Western Ukraine, fascists and bloodthirsty bandits, and the authorities have not been interested and allowed to do so. So to this day, they have loved this small expanse of people, today in eastern Ukraine, who can support separatists and become somewhere between the Ukrainian military and those who set the situation on fire in eastern Ukraine. Today there's a war going on, and in Ukraine it's just supposed to be banned by Russian television channels, so today it's important to see what Ukrainian television channels are also showing, please tell me if there's a need as I recently saw on one of the Ukrainian television channels to show the spreads of the Red Square in Moscow, where lucky Moscows are carrying Stalin's portraits, they're carrying Lenin's portraits. Please tell me, is there a need to demonstrate today the direct reports of the separatist rally? As I had recently seen on one of the Ukrainian television channels when a separatist rally was held in Lugansk and after a separatist rally was held in Odessa. There is no need to explain them in such detail, for it is actually an opportunity for separatists to explain their position. Please tell me, is there a need to demonstrate today, I will conclude, is there a need today to show a number of Russian television shows about a noble Russian specialty, about a valiant Russian police force that is capable of untangle the most confusing matter? Why are Ukrainian military soldiers today in fact like a cat in a bag, and they do not have enough information about what is happening in Ukraine? They don't have the ability to read Ukrainian newspapers, to watch TV. Why do Russian journalists, "journalists" (in paws) help us out today in Ukraine?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u214	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u215	Helps terrorists to interview our military prisoners, the bloodthirsty prisoners of war. Today, Ukraine is not just to engage in armed war, but Ukraine must do the same in war for the souls of the Ukrainians. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u216	People’s MP Lazko is invited to attend. Get ready for Opanaschenka People's Deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u217	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. What is needed today is a decisive fight aimed at protecting Ukraine's territorial integrity of sovereignty and independence. Today, in the eastern part of our home country, Russia, with the help of divers, terrorists, local agents of corrupt influence, fought against Ukraine. Today the blood of Ukrainian citizens is shed in the eastern part of our country. Russian terrorists, so-called peaceful citizens, with state-of-the-art military equipment: portable anti-aircraft complexes, machine guns, grenade launchers -- they're shooting and killing our soldiers. They only kill Ukrainian citizens because they speak Ukrainian. Just because people come out with Ukrainian flags, people want to live in the only Ukraine. Today, on Donbas, this has become deadly: the desire to live in Ukraine alone. So I demand that the Ukrainian authorities act decisively, persistently, never stop. Wetting terrorists with guns everywhere they see them. There can be no negotiations with terrorists. The terrorists who took the weapons that carry blood, tears, grief, and war to our home land are people with whom there can be no negotiations. They are not human beings, they are humanlike, for no man who cares for the good of Ukraine, who cares for his family, for his children, who will not call for foreign armies in Ukraine, who will not call for the slaughter of Ukraine, who will not call for war, because war will not pass by anyone. No left, no right, no Russian, no Ukrainian. War will come to every house. And that's why our mission with you is to stop the war. Our job is to have a peaceful sky over Donbas, as it is over all of Ukraine. But if we want to have a single state, a whole state, when we want to have an independent Dejava, we have to fight. Independence just isn't allowed. She needs to be fought for. And when Putin offers us an alternative today between surrendering and dismembering Ukraine, because if we stop fighting, it ends with dismemberment and the capitalization of the country. So I want to say that we will never, ever, under any circumstances stop the fight for Ukraine to be whole, for Ukraine to be independent, for Ukraine to be democratic. We'll protect Ukraine. We will beat the enemy out of our homeland! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u218	People’s MP Opanaschenko is invited to attend. Prepare the National MP Mishchenkovi.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u219	Dear colleagues, respected Ukrainian citizens, there are now complex developments in Ukraine. But a lot of people in the Supreme Council and the government say that it's, you know, some sort of settlement or something, a fight for something or a tongue or something. I mean, frankly, it's a struggle for power. For the power to get financial resources. And all those provocations that are happening, they have some funding on both sides and on the other side. Janukovic taught everyone well: If you build a pyramid of power, you can get money by sitting at home, and that's billions of dollars. So what's going on right now is the banal waste of these funds. The reach of power has been paid. We have a moment in Ukraine that the authorities cannot stop the provokers. Yes, indeed, they are, but the authorities cannot stop them. Because people have been dying for several months. And the authorities can't say it clearly when it's over. And if he cannot say clearly, he cannot deal with the situation that he is. To stop the provocateurs and this fight for these huge billions of gains, we need to decentralize total power, remove the apple of discord. Remove and make power unattainable to anyone. Don't concentrate on it. We can't even leave the governors now. We need to give the council some authority. They elected a council of deputies for the elections in the area, and seven ministers were elected from that council. Of these seven ministers, one was assigned to manage the council for one year. Then seven, independent of all factions, political forces, will have an interest in peace, peace, and development. Nor can we concentrate on the power of power. It's also a fight for money. You can't have a minister of the Ministry of Internal Affairs assigning goggles to places. You have to give people to pick their own police glasses on the spot. The same applies to prosecutors. The same is true of the President. If the President remains an influential figure, there will always be the temptation to fight for power and finance what is now happening in the country. We need to give authority and concentrate it completely. If the Prime Minister is just one year. And then we choose another, from another political power. Then it will be the interest of all political forces to work for the future, to work for people, to increase wages, not their profits. And we're going to stop what's going on. Financing troops on one side, the other on the other, and a huge cost to the army. Throughout the history of Ukraine, we have never had such an army expense. We'd rather direct these funds to people, to their salaries, to their jobs.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u220	Please, National Deputy Mishchenko is invited to speak. Prepare the National Deputy of Orphanage. You hope there's a rostrum? The rostrum is here, Andrey Mishchenko. Thank you, please turn on the microphone on the stand.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u221	Oleg Bondarczuk, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear Ukrainians! It has been a month since the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on Restoration of Trust in Judicial Authority in Ukraine, which was the first step towards overcoming the consequences of selective justice in Ukraine, corruption, and the degradation of judicial power in Ukraine. The system of administration of the courts created by the previous criminal authorities had virtually destroyed an independent court in Ukraine. The first and necessary step to restore confidence in the judiciary in Ukraine is the question of the illustration of the courts, the dismissal of judges who have stained themselves and the entire judicial system of Ukraine by making unjust decisions. By the way, we should not just stop at judges who made decisions about Midan’s participants. The judges of both the farm courts and the administrative courts also made unjust decisions, including in relation to election disputes. The All - Ukrainian Freedom Union has proposed to expand the list of cases for judicial review. And that was in our bill. Yet, as a compromise, we passed a common law. And I was also one of the co-authors of this law, the bill where we proposed to the interim commission of inquiry that it should consider a larger list of cases. Those who were tried. That is, today this law that has entered into force requires the establishment of a temporary special commission. The All-Ukrainian Freedom Union has already proposed a candidate for this Temporary Special Commission to review the activities of the courts. We ask the Head of the Supreme Council and the Supreme Council to immediately form a temporary special commission to verify the activities of the courts, because this law is not yet in force. We also demand the formation of a High Council of Justice, namely to vote on candidates from the Supreme Council of Ukraine, taking into account the proposals made by factions of the parliamentary coalition, not just narrow party interests. Personally, we also offered a candidate. So we have to start with the illustration of the courts. As for the changes to the Constitution in chapter eight, "justice." We are in favour of creating a truly independent court in Ukraine with the broadest powers and the opportunity for citizens of our country to participate in the election of lower-level judges. Today, Ukraine’s judicial system, without having been illustrated, cannot be granted the powers of society that European institutions offer us. The first step that we're proposing is to examine the activities of the courts in recent years, the last four years, the illustration of these courts, the responsibility of the judges who have broken an oath, including criminal decisions. At the same time, there must be parliamentary control over the activities of the courts. Appointment for office, discharge for the appointment of the High Council of Justice as provided for by the valid Constitution of Ukraine. At the second stage, we propose to amend the Constitution, to enable the High Council of Justice and the Constitutional Body, without agreeing with the Supreme Council, to appoint and release judges in accordance with the recommendations of the Venice Commission. If we hand over the judiciary to the judges today without proper parliamentary control, we will receive a closed corporation of corrupt officials away from the problems of society that have not been illustrated today. Therefore, our task is not only to follow the recommendations of European institutions blindly, but, above all, to reform the judicial system of Ukraine, the law enforcement agencies, the procurator's office, taking into account the interests of the entire Ukrainian society. We are in favour of returning the powers of the Supreme Court of Ukraine as the highest judicial authority in the system of courts of general jurisdiction to the Ukrainian citizens of the Supreme Court of Ukraine as a focal point directly without agreement with the higher specialized courts, the elimination of the higher specialized courts as a dual case, the possibility of creating a Supreme Court of Ukraine and the generalization of judicial practice for.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u222	May I have the floor of the People's Deputy Orotyuk. Prepare the national deputy to go to Golovkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u223	Yuri Orotyuk, All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, Cherkaščina. I wanted to start by quoting one of the authoritative publications that pointed out that today the Party of Regions has become a haven for moral freaks, criminals and Ukrainian phobics -- it is no longer a secret to anyone. Yesterday's statement of support for the so-called terrorist organization of the so-called Donetsk People's Republic finally revealed the reality of who is funding the so-called so-called terrorist organization of the so-called Donetsk People's Republic of Ukraine and who is already openly speaking against the Ukrainian state. I think that after these statements we should clearly say that any arrangements, negotiations or round tables with those who are open collaborators, who are Putin, Putler, in Ukraine are impossible. In order for any round table to be possible, you definitely have to do a few things. The first of these conditions is that all hostages today must be released by those who are imprisoned and captured by the roadside divers. The other one. All fighter bandits must surely lay down their weapons and release all the administrators. Third. All those who committed crimes against humanity. All those who took part in ethnic cleansing against Ukrainians on donbassa should be issued by separatists, and only after that can we talk about how we can have a dialogue with the Donetsk community, and its leadership is certainly necessary, but not to lead with the Party of Regions, which today openly confessed in its cooperation with Putler and with the U.S. occupations. We saw another serious problem this week -- the complete inactivity of local self-government bodies, which is, by the way, a hundred percent of the members of the Donbasa Regional Party. Last week, I called on the head of the Ukrainian Security Service to call on Kiev for Friday all the heads of the local states and heads of the district councils to warn them that their support for the so - called referendum was a national betrayal and would be prosecuted by law under article 111 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code. Unfortunately, this was not done, and many representatives of local councils, including the city of Novogrodivec, Antonenko, the first deputy of the city’s head, Ivanov, the head of the City Administration of the City Council of Tomk, helped kidnap participants from the council of Ukrainian activists, openly supported the separatists. Sooner or later, all these people will be held criminally responsible for the fact of treason. Similarly, we demand that all law enforcement personnel be reclassified immediately. Because some of them took up open secessionist positions. But not so bad today in the East. I want to welcome the Ukrainian community with yesterday's liberation of the Velionovosilk region from the Byzantine separatists. The ordinary Ukrainian is Semen Semenchenko, head of the Donbas team, with the same kind of Ukrainians who expelled the road separatists and liberated the city. And those Ukrainian soldiers, those lieutenants, the captains, the majors, who are going to banish that road dirt, they're going to become defense ministers in the near future.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u224	Please finish. I would like to introduce you to the words of the People's Deputy Golovka. Prepare the National MP, Kurpill.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u225	Mikhailo Golovko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, Ternopolishte. Honorable deputies. Honorable Voters! There are very few deputies in the session room, but I will go to the voters who are still watching the meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The Ukrainian state is really in a very difficult state right now, especially what we've practically experienced with the Russian Federation, practically in a state of war, and unfortunately, the patriots of the Ukrainian State die every day. At the same time, however, the previous criminal regime by Yanukovic, who robbed the Ukrainian state, in order of about $100 billion, caused major economic losses to Ukraine’s economy. Now that Ukraine is in great debt liabilities, we are forced to take new and new loans to raise our economy and develop the Ukrainian state. Today, Ukraine’s total government debt is $75 billion. If it's divided by every Ukrainian, even a newborn, it's about 15,000 dollars, and if it's for every worker, it's about 35,000 dollars. We have a huge pension deficit of 22 billion. And if you add another cash gap there, that's another 49 billion dollars, that's over 70 billion dollars. If we just look at the budget, we have today's budget deficit -- more than 72 billion dollars. And this is all a heavy burden on the economy of the Ukrainian state. We see the only way out. The only way in is to get our economy out of the shadows. The official Ukrainian economy is in the order of 45 percent of GDP. So if you take, for example, divided by population costs, it's 1 trillion 279 billion dollars, and somewhere, the official trade is 800 billion. This is all reflected in the budget of the Ukrainian State. So now the problem has to be the next one. We have to change tax policy. We have to reduce the critical amount of taxes, reduce them to three, up to five. We have to work on a tax reduction policy right now. So the economy is going to develop, jobs are going to be created, climate is going to be conducive to small and medium-sized business. Today, the National Bank of Ukraine needs to cut the account rate from 19 percent to European standard levels of 5-7 percent. This will give rise to the Ukrainian economy. We talked today in the session room about the need to create jobs for young people. This is how jobs will be created for young people because, in fact, 46 percent of young people today are unemployed. And that's why it's only the recovery of the economy that we can create jobs and we can actually raise standards, the social standards of the Ukrainian state. And in closing, I'd like to say a few words to the previous speakers about the federalization. This is, of course, a real myth that Donbas is feeding all of Ukraine. In fact, Donbas is a grant, it's a loss in most of the regions that we're practically financing.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u226	Please finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u227	Colossal expenses are coming. If Donbas gives the order of 25 billion GDP to Ukraine, 41 billion will receive subsidies. We spend only 14 billion dollars a year on mines, a corrupt coal sector. And that's why these appeals by separatists and those Kremlin agents are really talking about the following. They don't understand what they're doing for the people they're fooling around in the region. I address the Donbass residents first. I mean, we're a great Ukrainian state, the only one, and they shouldn't react to any provocation. We will defeat the enemy and the invader; we will build a powerful, great Ukrainian state. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u228	May I have the floor of the People's Deputy Kurpil.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u229	Stepan Kurpil, Sokal constituency 124 Lvivish, faction of Fatherland. Yesterday, in the Sokal region of Lviv, there was an extraordinary event that led to the despair of the locals. Along with the representatives of the highway, the road "R-15" was blocked by Zovva-Redograd, the Sokal Western border of Ukraine. The point is that this road is commonly called the road is simply a direction or a tankdrome. Thus, the resentment of the local people is understandable. I wrote dozens of references to the previous government and warned that there might be a social explosion in this mining area, that miners can't get to their jobs in the mines, you don't have to explain what's at stake. Last fall, it was like repairing this road on the Sosniuka-Red Town district, Red Grad-Sokal, that they took off the top layer of asphalt and left everything behind. I would like to stress that this road should not simply be repaired in good condition, it should be given the status of an international route. Because a customs crossing between Poland and Ukraine is opening up, and there can't be this road in such a terrible state. I'm talking to the government. In spite of the financial difficulties, it is urgent to find funds for the urgent repair of roads that are simply in unacceptable condition. A group of Lviv deputies made an appropriate appeal to the government. I ask the government to take on this problem immediately, because the blockade in the Sokal region continues today. I hope we can calm people down, but we can only calm them down for a while. If the issue is not resolved, the mining region may collapse. I ask you not to allow this to happen and to take full responsibility. You can't keep sneezing that Autodora is deficient, that Autodora has crazy debts. Those who have done so need to be held accountable, and from the loans we receive, we need to find some of the funds to get the road in order to keep people out of despair. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u230	National MP Rudzkowski. Half-regulatory, one and a half minutes to get you out of here.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u231	Thank you. At a time when the East Ukraine is actually going to war, the National Bank yesterday, citizens of Ukraine from all regions of Ukraine came up with one requirement: we need to convert currency credits back to 2005, 2006, 2007, 2008 and later into national currency at a rate when they took credit. This is their absolute requirement. Also with the exception of all sanctions. I think in the Supreme Council we need to support these citizens of Ukraine, who have already overpaid 60 percent from the credit rates that Ukrainian banks have received. I passed that law today. On Thursday, tens of thousands of people will come to the Supreme Council, demanding that this law be passed. And the people who took their time were relying on the state to maintain a stable exchange rate were no longer deceived by the new government. I'm calling on the MPs, on Thursday to consider this law, just like the law, at the request of the public, to abolish the liquidation assembly, and on Thursday to vote and allow people to serve their loans properly. In fact, wage increases and pensions have been halted. I think we should go meet people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-16-m0.u232	Ladies and gentlemen, the time for the "Virgin" is over for the performances. I would like to remind you that the next plenary meeting will be held on May 20, Tuesday, at 10 a.m. I thank you very much for such active work today, for all who have remained in the Parliamentary Hall today. And at this plenary morning session of the Supreme Council, I declare closed. Thank you, good-bye.
