ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national MPs! Please take your seats. And I would like to remind all of our colleagues that a session will begin at 10 a.m. I see we don't have any factions. I understand that in view of the very important, responsible issues that are now included in the order of the day of our session, factions are now being held. And I'd like to ask my respectable colleagues to contact your factions who have not yet reached the hall so that we can start the sessions at the right time. I ask both Freedom and Fatherland to contact their colleagues in factions and ensure the appearance of the national MPs. Yeah, Freedom's already coming up, it's easier. Dear colleagues, I'm asking you to take your seats. I don't see the Fatherland faction yet. I understand that we are having a very heated discussion of the order of today’s session. I'd like a colleague from Fatherland to speed up the discussion and come into the session room. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Please turn on the "Race" system. Let's get the national MPs registered. [[10:07:43]] There are 305 national deputies registered in the hall. We're opening our morning session. Dear colleagues, let me make a few announcements. According to the application and in accordance with part three of article 60 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I am reporting the departure of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Zirkin Igor Markovich, of the Party of the Regions. And also according to these statements, I'm reporting the entry, that is, the return, of the people's deputies Dudka and Samuelenko to the MP's faction of the Party of the Regions. So it's a two-one bill. Dear colleagues, please have an offer for the session hall. Before we go to the important issues that are included in the agenda, let's exchange positions, in a minute, I'm going to give a representative of each faction. Please turn on Oleg Pullibok's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m0.u2	Thank you. Oleg Tuggnibok faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear colleagues of the Ukrainian People's Deputies, because there was actually a human question about entrances, transitions from factions to factions, exits and so on, and I would like to point out that a few weeks ago, we were in this Parliament looking at issues, and unfortunately, we did not make a positive decision about the removal of the mandate of the deputies of Sergei Brik and Boris Daych. But since I have information that these deputies have already withdrawn their statements from the regulatory committee, that is, they want to remain Ukrainian national deputies again, I would like to remind you that Sergey Braiko interviewed one of the Ukrainian publications, quoted in the original language. "I'm not a deputy, I'm a citizen of Russia." Deputy Boris Daych made a similar statement. In the original language, "112" of the channel he said, "How honorable."
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m0.u3	Let me finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m0.u4	“As an honorary Crimean, given the will of the electorate, I do not believe that I have the moral right to continue to serve as the national deputy of Ukraine.” So tell me, please, are there any national MPs who make similar public statements, who can stay in this room and wear the proud high status of the Ukrainian national deputy? And if we don't vote here because they've taken their statements, we demand that the Attorney General's Office immediately file a motion to deprive them of their parliamentary inviolability and open criminal conduct regarding the statements of these so-called Ukrainian national deputies. And they're probably Russian national deputies or some other country. And I also demand that we here in this room consider the previous application of the Attorney General's Office for the removal of parliamentary immunity for some of the deputies who have been observed in separatistism and the support of terrorists. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!"
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m0.u5	Please, from the faction of the Party of the Regions, National Deputy Levchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m0.u6	Dear colleagues, in Donetsk and in Luhansk, people continue to be killed as a result of hostilities. Massive people lose their jobs, cannot pay their wages, do not pay their social benefits, people leave the region. We have a proposal. Yesterday, the committee considered a bill for which we voted here to include it in the agenda, a moratorium on penance, fines and compulsory dismissal, and forcible recovery of housing for housing and utilities. It is a huge request to include it on the agenda today, to consider the bill and to support those who are in a difficult situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m0.u7	Please, from the Communist faction, will anyone be speaking? National MP Simonenko, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m0.u8	Simonenko, the faction of the Company. Respected colleagues, respected voters, given the situation in our country and given the worsening socio-economic issues, the problems that arise from the rise in prices and tariffs, especially in respect of non-payment of wages, today requires that all proposals made by the Company's 150 draft laws be considered as a matter of priority. There are clear proposals, and unfortunately yesterday the Supreme Council did not vote in favour of the Company's proposal to introduce a penalty for non-payment of wages in a timely manner; the need to introduce a moratorium on price increases and tariffs today; the need to tightly control the prices of medicines and strike at the hands of the oligarchs who benefit from human health. Today, it is very important to review the organization of the work of the Supreme Council and to focus on socio-economic issues to protect the rights of our citizens.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m0.u9	Please, from the strike faction of the people's deputy of the Kurennay.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m0.u10	Dear Alexander Valentinovich, distinguished national MPs! We all talk a lot here about the implementation of the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, about a new life, and so on and so forth. But in fact, the whole society is facing a violation of the Constitution of Ukraine by the people’s deputies and the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I mean, so far, we have more than 20 accomplices, who are still Ukrainian national deputies, who somehow dare to file an application for their powers and at the same time take office in the state executive power. I ask, Alexander Valentinovich, to perform the constitutional function of you, including as Head of the Supreme Council, to stop this violation of Ukrainian legislation and to leave all people in one chair. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m0.u11	From "North European Ukraine," please, who's ready to speak? There's no wish. Please, from "Economic Development" Anatoly Kirilovich Kinach, please. I mean, there's no desire. Please, fellow Members, come on, I see two hands from the non-factional: the national MP, the national deputy Lazko. And we'll move on to the agenda.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m0.u12	Thank you, Alexander Valentinovich! On an organizational basis. I'm asking you because you know that there are non-fractional national MPs in the organization of Parliament's work, when they discuss some of the issues, they don't have the opportunity to register on a level playing field to express one or another perspective. So I would ask, Alexander Valentine's Day, to give appropriate instructions to the Supreme Council's apparatus on the grounds that non-fractionals on equal terms would have the opportunity to register on the same terms as groups and factions. This will allow us to balance our possibilities. That's the first question. And the second question. In view of our human resources issues, do you not think, Alexander Valentinovich, that I would like you to express your point of view, should we choose the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m0.u13	Please, Oleg Easy, one minute. Out of the way, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m0.u14	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Yesterday, a number of allegations were made by the Ukrainian Presidential Administration regarding the possibility of halting an anti-terror operation, provided that the terrorists stop the fire. I believe that any claim that there is another truce, a re-engagement of an anti-terrorist operation, is extremely damaging to the moral spirit of the Armed Forces, the National Guard and all the other heroes who are participating in the liberation of our country from terrorists. No stop to an anti-terror operation, I think, can be spoken of until the last terrorist is either destroyed or expelled from our home land. Quite the so - called truce that we had and resulted in the death of dozens of our military and peaceable citizens. And when colleagues from the Party of Regions say that Donbas is bleeding as a result of military action, no, there's blood on Donbass as a result of letting the terrorists take Donbas, and so help free Donbas.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m0.u15	Please, the national deputy of Labunska insists on speaking. And let's move on to the agenda.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m0.u16	Dear Alexander Valentine's Day, I ask you very much to include Mr. Musia in the order of the day's order for the release of the Minister of Health. I want to tell you that the committee is deliberately delaying this consideration, and I don't know why, but you can already see the consequences of this pseudo-minister's activities, which I think have already led to a collapse in health at all. I want to tell you that there is no BCG vaccine in Kiev today, which is the vaccine that our newborn children make during the days. So let's, if the committee doesn't want to look at it, put it in the agenda today, all the lines are exhausted, and let the room be defined. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m0.u17	Thank you. Dear colleagues! We still don't have one of the factions that discuss the order of the day. There is still an offer to begin consideration, and I hope that we can make the necessary decisions. So that we don't lose the vote on the issues that need to be decided, I would suggest that we now consider the inclusion of draft laws into the agenda. Please open your manuals and let us consider the inclusion in the agenda of the Draft Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislative acts (to simplify the registration of derivatives) (registration number 4201a). Please give me one minute to write the bill to the People's Deputy Philippenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m0.u18	Thank you. Dear colleagues, thank you, Mr. Head! Economic Development Group, Filipenko, Poltavščina. This bill was introduced by me in addition to yesterday's law (3237), which we discussed yesterday. He foresees simplifying the registration of real estate rights. In this case, it is said that this bill provides, more faithfully, for citizens who are currently registering their property rights to avoid the queues in which they stand, foresaw the electronic submission of applications for registration of property rights. That is, in this case, the bill strengthens the guarantees of protection for ordinary citizens during the registration of property rights and during the proper administration of these rights. It removes corrupt schemes that existed that continue to exist in individual BTIs. It enables citizens to effectively protect their rights and property rights. So I very much ask you to include this bill in the agenda, it is very relevant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m0.u19	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please take your seats. Colleagues, please sit in your workplace and decide on the inclusion of a daily bill to amend some Ukrainian legislation on simplifying the registration of derived goods rights (registration number 4201a). Please vote, Your Honor, for inclusion in the agenda. [[10:21:23]] For-103 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Parenthood – 6, Party of Regions – 1, Impact – 0, Economic Development – 25, Freedom – 33, Sovereign, European Ukraine – 19, Peace and Stability – 1, Company – 0. The next question, dear colleagues, is registration number 4141a. This is a draft law amending the Criminal Procedural Code of Ukraine (to ensure the right of citizens to judicial protection under the conditions of an anti-terrorist operation, the introduction of a military or state of emergency). Dear colleagues, an important issue that protects the rights of our citizens who are forced to live in an area where an antiterrorist operation is taking place or where a military condition is introduced. 4141a. Please, Your Honor, support inclusion in the agenda. Please. [[10:22:30.]] For 134 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Parenthood – 6, Party of Regions – 1, Impact – 33, Economic Development – 22, Freedom – 33, Sovereign European Ukraine – 18, Peace and Stability – 0, Company – 0, non-fractional – 21. Dear colleagues, next question. [[B in m in s a l in]] There'll be an offer later, we'll come back later. The next question, dear colleagues, is registration number 4225a. This is a bill amending some of the laws of Ukraine on the provision of calculations in the fuel and energy complex. Please, People's Deputy Mirni. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m0.u20	Thank you, Alexander Valentinovich. Alexander Mirny, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Alexander Valentinovich, I'm asking you to move this question in time for the faction to come. Because the question is critical. In NAC, Energoatoms are already blocked accounts, arrested, and we should necessarily put this issue in the agenda and vote. If we don't turn it on now, we're gonna be in trouble. Thank you, Alexander Valentinovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m0.u21	Thank you. Please, People's Deputy Kaplin. One minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m0.u22	Dear Mr. Head! I wanted to call you and ask you to contact our colleagues from Fatherland for them to return to the hall, and at this point there are a number of questions that need to be considered. You can see there's not enough voices. I understand that it's a matter of some sort of personnel nature, but the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine has already begun, and we need to be here and work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m0.u23	I got the offer. People's MP Filipenko. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m0.u24	Thank you, Mr. Head. In fact, there's a point to these two issues that we haven't voted for, I see, in one of the factions, and they're not registered at all. And these two bills: the first is about registration (No.4201a) and the next bill you're talking about -- they're really two very important ones. Our group will support them, so I'm asking them to put them to a vote when all factions, one of which is now missing in the room. I'm sure they'll vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m0.u25	National MP Rudzkowski, please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m0.u26	Dear colleagues! The bill, which will now be voted on, was discussed carefully on the committee. It will ensure the stability of financing the operation of the entire energy system, and it will ensure the stability of payment of wages for miners and all energy users. And so the proposal, and the call to all factions: to vote in favour of this bill, so that we can look at it today and support it as a whole, because the energy system is in critical condition. I'm also asking, Alexander Valentine's Day, if not today, then tomorrow, to ask questions about the question of imposing a moratorium on price increases, increasing tariffs for wage increases and pensions, because today's tariffs are rising -- the wages are frozen. We're paralyzing.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m0.u27	I've got the position. Please, People's Deputy Rosenko, Strike.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m0.u28	Paul Rosenco, Vitaly Caller's Faction. Well, it seems very strange that a committee was looking at something, even though the bill had been registered at night and had not been on the site of the Supreme Council of Ukraine until now. And he's already entering the hall under the scream "run, run." If this is such a difficult financial situation in a fuel-energy complex, I just want to remind you that this is the same difficult situation for consumers of the fuel-energy complex. And in general, such questions should be brought up by the government and told about the state of NAC Energy, the state of the fuel-energy complex that is planned and what is happening there. That's why the strike faction won't vote in favour of the bill. And we expect such initiatives primarily from the government, not all lobbying groups in the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m0.u29	I've got the position. Dear colleagues! We exchanged thoughts about the inclusion of 4225a in the agenda. But most speakers are concerned that due to the absence of factions, we do not have enough votes to accept an important issue. That's why, honourable colleagues, so that we don't go down any other legislation right now, but on a daily basis, especially in the first part, you know, very important issues that we need to take consciously and responsibly, which is why I'm announcing a break of 11 hours for 15 minutes. The Supreme Council will continue its work at 11 p.m. for 15 minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m0.u30	Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. The Supreme Council is continuing its work. It is difficult enough to discuss the beginning of the constitutional process in our country. This is understandable, so the Constitution is the main document that our country should live by this century. I'm asking you to take your seats, and let's go in order of the day. Dear colleagues, we need to make a decision on the issues under discussion. I'll remind you that you and I had the opportunity to discuss two issues yesterday, but we haven't been able to make a decision. And while the MPs are meeting, before we move on to personnel, constitutional ones, you and I will solve the problem of making decisions on the issues under discussion. In order to make a decision, it is proposed that Parliament decide on the draft Order on the Determining 150th anniversary of the birth of the UAPC father Vasil Lipkovsky (registration number 4097). The project yesterday reported that the Supreme Council had agreed to vote on this issue today. Please, Your Honor, 1 minute of Viacheslav Kirilenka to remind him, as long as the deputies sit down, of the meaning of this decree, and we will be determined by vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m0.u31	Thank you, Alexander Valentinovich. Viacheslav Kirilenko, Party "For Ukraine!"Faction of the Fatherland. Yesterday we discussed a draft decision by Deputy Valérie Karpuntsov 150 years after the birth of Mitrovica in Ukraine by Vasil Lipkovsky. This is the Metropolitan, which in 1921 formed the Ukrainian Autocathal Orthodox Church, introduced the principle of assembly and separation from the State for this church. He had previously graduated from the Kyiv spiritual academy. He went all the way to the church hierarchy, from a simple priest to a Metropolitan. And he is a model of loyal service to God, to the church, and to the Ukrainian people. This year, Ukrainians in Ukraine and around the world will celebrate 150 years from the day they were born. At the age of 73 in 1937, Metropolitan Lipkovsky was shot by a three - year - old CNVD and died a martyr’s death. Please support this project, which is the Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m0.u32	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please identify your support on the basis and throughout the draft decision (registration number 4097). I ask the Supreme Council to determine how to vote. Please vote on the basis as a whole. [[11:59:30.]] For 280 Decision taken. That's a good start. Next question, dear colleagues. Let me remind you, we discussed in detail the draft regulation on the adoption of Parliamentary Hearing Recommendations on the topic "Legislative provision for the development of information society in Ukraine." But we agreed that we would return to this issue in order to vote on it as a whole. Please support the return of the Supreme Council to the draft Resolution on the Approval of Parliamentary Hearing Recommendations on the topic "Legislative provision for the development of information society in Ukraine". Please vote, Your Honor, on your return to this question. [[12:00:21]] For 285 Decision taken. And right now, your esteemed colleagues, while there's inspiration, let's vote for the whole project. May I remind you, registration number 4190a. Please, Your Honor, on the basis and in general. Please vote. [[12:00:52]] For 298. Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues. All right, I'll give you my word after the personnel issues and the Constitution. Dear colleagues, I'd like to ask you another question. It's a technical question, it doesn't need to be included in the agenda. This is the Supreme Council of Ukraine (registration number 4216) decree on recognition of certain decisions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I remind you that when the Supreme Council, after the destruction of the Yanukovitch regime, took responsibility, we acted effectively in revolutionary conditions without having a government without yet having a parliamentary majority. At that time, decisions were made regarding the authorized Supreme Council for the Control of Individuals or Other Authorities. Now that we have the Kabmin, when we are now forming directly the entire executive power vertical, surely the necessity of these regulations has failed. I would like to remind you that this is the Supreme Council Regulation (since 22 February 2014) (No7587) on the appointment of the Ombudsman, Commissioner for the Control of the Security Service of Ukraine, this is the Order (since 22 February 2014) 7597 on the appointment of Zamana to the Ministry of Defence, this is the Supreme Council Regulation (since 22 February 2014) 7607 on the appointment of the Removal Commissioner for the control of the activities of the Office of the Attorney General and this is the draft Order, this is the Supreme Council Regulation (since 24 February 2014) 7777 on the appointment of the Office of the Secretary-General for the Control of Intelligence in Ukraine. Dear colleagues, since we already have the heads of these institutions, there is certainly no need for authorized Supreme Councils. Proposal: In accordance with part two of article 48 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, recognize these decrees as invalid. Please, Your Honor, support this proposal as a basis and as a whole. I'll remind you, registration number 4216a. Please, Your Honor, vote as a basis and as a whole. [[12:03:35]] For 269 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we are moving on to the next question, this is a matter that concerns the draft Act amending the Constitution of Ukraine to reinforce the guarantees of independence of the judge. Ladies and gentlemen, may I remind you that the Supreme Council has already decided to support this project by 226, in accordance with the Constitution, by a number of deputies. And today we need to determine to the Supreme Council on this issue, it's, you know, what the conditions were: when there was actually full control of Janukovich's judicial authority and his environment, and that's when this position was formulated. Today, the Supreme Council needs to determine whether to support this draft amendment to the Constitution by 300 votes or more, or, in fact, to reject the necessary number of votes, in order to develop a new format for strengthening the guarantees of the independence of the courts. You know how important and relevant this is to our country. I give the floor to the head of the Industrial Policy Committee, Writer Valery Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m0.u33	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! To implement the prescriptions of article 154 of the Basic Law of Ukraine, the President of Ukraine submitted a bill to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that envisaged amendments to articles 55, 85, 106, 122, 125, 126, 127, 128, 29, 131 of the Constitution of Ukraine. According to the "Explanatory Note", the purpose of the bill is to improve the Constitution of Ukraine and to strengthen existing guarantees of judicial independence by changing the existing procedure for the appointment and release of courts, reducing the role of political bodies in this process, and transferring powers to issues related to the activity of judges to the knowledge of the organs most of which will be the judges. By a decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 5 September 2013, the bill has been incorporated into the agenda of the day-long third session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the Seventh Convention and has been sent to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine to reach a conclusion on its compliance with the requirements of articles 157, 158 of the Basic Law of Ukraine. On 19 September 2013, the Constitutional Court of Ukraine adopted a finding in the case of the Supreme Council of Ukraine that the draft Act amending the Constitution of Ukraine on strengthening the guarantees of independence of judges met the requirements of articles 157, 158 of the Constitution of Ukraine. By a decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on October 10, 2013, the bill was previously approved by the majority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. According to the requirements of articles 155 of the Constitution, a bill amending the Constitution of Ukraine, previously approved by a majority of the constitutional composition of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, is considered to have been adopted if it was voted in favour of at least two thirds of the constitutional composition of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In accordance with part six of article 149 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Supreme Council may adopt a bill provided for in article 155 of the Constitution of Ukraine, provided that the bill, at the conclusion of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, is recognized as satisfying the requirements of articles 157, 158 of the Constitution of Ukraine and the Constitutional Court did not make any warnings about it, and the bill was previously approved by the Supreme Council in accordance with article 155 of the Constitution of Ukraine at the previous session of the Supreme Council. In view of what has been said, the Committee of the Supreme Council on Legal Policy has prepared materials to finally adopt this bill as a law, but given today's changes in Parliament, and that there have been many meetings, part of the deputies, namely, of the two factions, were not present on the committee, so the final decision will be on Parliament. I just want to remind you that the point of this bill was to actually remove politicians from the pressure on the judiciary. Parliament is completely left with the right to intervene in the judiciary and the Supreme Council of Justice will form two-thirds of the judges. In addition, the bill was worked together and concluded by the Venice Commission, as well as by experts from the USAD. He received a favorable response from the European community, and this is why Parliament actually supported him twice, once sending him to the Constitutional Court, where he received positive conclusions, and the second time that he was approved by the majority in the first reading. Realizing that there are different visions of how the judiciary should function today, Parliament today can actually adopt a decision to support this bill by 300 votes. Otherwise, Parliament will have to draft a new bill that should be submitted to Parliament. But if, in the future, the bill tabled by the President is not supported here to go to the Constitutional Court, then it would be wise to vote on this bill, if we don't find a vote, to make a single bill, which will provide both for the independence of the judiciary and for the changes that society is looking for in terms of decentralization of power and other things that we are going to do today for today's needs. So, dear colleagues, this question is put to the judgment of the hall. And once again, let me remind you that today we need 300 votes to positively adopt this bill. And please support this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m0.u34	Dear colleagues, the question to the Supreme Council: is there a need to discuss this problem, this project? Because there's a suspicion that 300 votes are not going to come. Let's do the faction one performance at a time. And we'll vote. Dear colleagues, please sign up for the factions. National MP Simonenko, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m0.u35	Respectable voters are considering a very serious question of how the rights of ordinary citizens can be protected in court and what Parliament is doing to restore confidence in the country's judiciary. Of course, I will now present the position of our faction, on the basis that I am not talking about a particular court, but I am expressing our view on the basis of the political, State and, of course, as part of this regime, the judiciary. It is obvious that the courts are being privatized today. They are privatized with large capital, depending on who is in power, what interests in a region are being pursued, what large capital arrangements are being implemented, and the judicial system of power is being established as a tool for the protection of the interests of the courts only of large capital. Secondly, it has become clear that during all the years of independence in the courtrooms and meetings, a simple person does not find protection of his or her rights and that what is now taken as a decision in the courts is made on the basis of who has paid more, the same rights. And unfortunately, this system has penetrated and affected almost the entire vertical of this system. And she left the State without protection a simple man, a simple labourer. People have lost faith and every new president as we are with you as witnesses. In fact, he takes the lead in breaking through the knee to form an accountable and controlled self and, of course, with the greatest degree of responsibility for all that is given. The judiciary. These are the vices that are the vices of the current political system formed by large capital and subordinated to all of them by privatizing the law enforcement agencies (the militia, the prosecutor's office, the BSS), including the judiciary for one purpose only, to protect its corrupt and criminal regime and to protect its interests. Last. What does the faction of the Company, the Company as a whole offer? We have a radical decision to make. The courts must be elected by the people. That is what we have proposed and proposed today. And the second. If that is not the case, the Supreme Council, to our deep conviction, cannot claim the right to decide on the expression of trust or mistrust in the appointment of judges. Therefore, the faction of the Company will not vote in favour of this draft law.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m0.u36	People's Deputy Bublik, Freedom faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m0.u37	Please pass the word to Oleg Bondarchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m0.u38	Please. Turn on the microphone of the National Deputy Bondarczuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m0.u39	Oleg Bondarczuk, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear colleagues, we have been asked to consider a bill to introduce the Constitution on strengthening the guarantees of the independence of judges. But we all remember the independence of the courts before President Yanukovich, under the previous criminal authority. So the introduction of President Yanukovic's amendment to strengthen the guarantees of the independence of judges sounds, you know, like abuse. The bill essentially proposes that the entire judiciary be fully dependent on the President of Ukraine, which will in fact mean the usurpation of power by the President of Ukraine and the removal of the Supreme Council as the only legitimate body empowered by the people. Because the only source of authority in Ukraine is the people, in accordance with article 5 of the Constitution, and the people are empowered by the Supreme Council to form a judicial branch of power, and to transfer these powers to the Supreme Council of Justice in full and to the President, do you understand? The Higher Council of Justice is formed as a collegiate body among judges, quite closed, and we doubt that it will perform the functions entrusted to it. That's why we're here. There are so many comments to this bill. One of the key novelties is the changes that are intended to empower the President of Ukraine to appoint a judge on the basis and according to the Supreme Council of Justice and to remove the Supreme Council from the election process. It is noteworthy that such changes conflict with the basics of the constitutional system of Ukraine, since according to the Preamble of the Constitution of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, by adopting the Basic Law of Ukraine, acted on behalf of the Ukrainian people and carried out the sovereign will of the people, that is, acting once as a constitutional publisher. So we're going against these changes. Another point that should be highlighted is the change to the constitutional status of the High Council of Justice. Obviously, the right decision would be to strengthen the role of the assembly of judges as a judicial authority, not to remove Parliament from the process of forming the Supreme Council of Justice. In our view, the best way to resolve the problem is to authorize the exclusive assembly of judges and parliament in the process of forming the High Council of Justice. In addition, the Law on Restoration of Trust in Judicial Authority was passed in Ukraine, where the Supreme Council gave judges the opportunity to elect judges for the first time in independence. And we think that we should hand over the powers of self-government to the courts, give these powers, and the Supreme Council will exercise control. That is why we strongly oppose the adoption of this bill. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m0.u40	People's MP Filipenko, Economic Development.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m0.u41	People's MP Filipenko, Economic Development Group, Poltavščina. Dear colleagues, speaking at the session of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, the President of Ukraine, Peter Poroshenko, pointed out as the main task of the President of Ukraine is to reform the judiciary, after, of course, the cessation of the armed conflict that is now taking place in eastern Ukraine. That is why the President of Ukraine insisted that the bill today be considered by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The point is that, indeed, reform, the judiciary is central to Ukraine right now. And even if that bill doesn't get 300 votes, we understand that it will be rejected, in any case, the President's position to carry out judicial reform is supported by our group. At the same time, judicial reform can be supported when implemented in close cooperation with the Venice Commission. And what I want to point out is that the bill that was submitted today for our consideration in the second and main readings was fully approved by the Venice Commission. In fact, the standards to be adopted are approved by the Council of Europe. What are we talking about? Let me just give you a few examples. First, every person is entitled to a fair and public hearing of his or her case. Changes are expected to be made only within the walls of the Supreme Council to determine the network of courts, to create them, and to reorganize them. The Supreme Council is given the right to determine what courts are in place in Ukraine. So that, as you recall, in 2008, we have the President of Ukraine who formerly made the Coastal and Coastal District Courts to resolve his questions. All of this must now be decided, under this bill, by the Supreme Council by a vote. The appointment of a judge is improving. New requirements are made for a judge to be appointed. In particular, the increase in age price to 30 years. That is, those who are able to serve as judges should be at least 30 years of age. Of course, this novelty is positive. At the same time, the political influence of the bill is being removed. Which is quite controversial and controversial in this room. The influence of the Supreme Council on the appointment and release of judges is being eliminated. Because judges, in line with the recommendations of the Council of Europe and the positions of the Venice Commission, will be appointed on an uninterrupted basis. So it cancels a five-year term. In this case, others are also novices, and they are also supported by the Venice Commission. If this bill doesn't get enough votes today, and our group will support these novels, we hope that the President of Ukraine will continue the course he took to reform justice. And of course, the idea of uniting both decentralization and the distribution of powers between branches of government, and the reform of the judiciary in one document, is also noteworthy. At the same time, if the next amendment bill is supported by this room, the President is not prevented from drafting a bill to amend the questions of the judiciary, agree on it on the Venice Commission and submit it to the Supreme Council of Ukraine for approval. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m0.u42	National MP Sobolev, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m0.u43	Dear colleagues, members of Parliament, our citizens! I'd like to draw your attention to what we're looking at right now. This is a brilliant project of how dictator Yanukovic, through his subordinate slaves in parliament -- a faction of communists and a faction of regions -- tried to rape the country's judicial system completely. I want to remind you of our performance of the year when the "Fatherland" faction did everything it could to ensure that this project was in no way brought to Parliament. And as we were then saying, "Let's try to do this -- and we'll see how real changes in the judiciary start." What does this project offer? This project is in fact a project of the total usurpation of President Yanukovic's power, who tried to put not only Parliament and its subjects on their knees, but also tried to put the entire judiciary on their knees. If, in fact, Janukovic or the person authorized by him would approve all decisions in the Presidential Administration, and then they would be brought before any judge from the District Court to the Supreme Court. This is a project that actually destroyed the entire system of judicial independence if it were approved. That's why, I think, the moment has come to tell the truth about what the state would expect if this project, God forbid, was approved by Parliament. That is why our faction has no doubt adopted a unanimous decision: by no means do we support this project, Janukovich. But unfortunately, we and this room hear Moscow voices from Portnova and companies that are still trying to convince us of what a great project it is. That's why I'm warning you, if, God forbid, this project gets the required number of votes, it's going to mean that we're finally going to crush at least the embryos of democracy that existed in the country before this so-called judicial reform. That is why our insistence is clear: no one has the right to vote in favour of the draft destruction of judges, the destruction of real parliamentary supervision and the real control of Parliament over how the judiciary in Ukraine takes place. Because our question is not only a matter of legislative regulation of this process, but also a question of when there should be dishonest, sales judges who should be responsible for what they did in the judge's office. That's why we won't vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m0.u44	People's deputy Karpuntsov, impact faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m0.u45	Respectable citizens of Ukraine, respected colleagues! Sufficient criticism has already been given to colleagues who have spoken before, to this draft act, and for what it has been called. I'd just like to draw your attention to the following things. First. One of the main reasons why our citizens stood up to the Dignity Revolution was the corruption of the judiciary, the inability of a citizen to find justice in a court of law. Where does it start? It starts with how we adopt these changes that affect the ability to protect the rights of a citizen. I remind you that the bill on the introduction to Chapter VIII of the Constitution on Justice has not yet been registered with the Supreme Council of Ukraine, but has already been a representative who has tried to present it in order for us to approve it earlier. Once again, I warn you that those acts that affect -- in that case, the changes to the Constitution affect the vitality of our entire state and the independence of the state itself -- they should be held in public debate in society and then in public debate in Parliament. The other one. The issue of access to justice. It begins with the steps of the court and concludes with the possibility of a citizen making his demands to the judges and being considered. I remind you that every judge in Yanukovich's office has created a group of so-called advisors to deal with the case. There's money for the case. We're looking at it. It's way too expensive. There is no money -- we simply refuse a citizen because a citizen is so illiterate and the state has not created conditions for a citizen to defend his rights in court. Of course, this draft of the Act does not conform to the requirements of society. Of course, it must be comprehensively shaped along with other changes to the Constitution and, I stress, discussed by society and in the walls of Parliament in public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m0.u46	Ponmarov National Deputy, Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m0.u47	Please pass the word to the expert in this matter to Spanov Dmitry Yuriovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m0.u48	Please. It's not Sphen's. Turn on the Sphinx microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m0.u49	Dear colleagues, the draft amending the Constitution that we are considering today has been registered a year ago. During this time, the project was evaluated by the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, the European Commission for Democracy through Law, and the assessment of civil society. The importance of constitutional reform in the justice system for Ukraine is difficult to overestimate. The Venice Commission in 2007, in 2010, in its conclusions, has developed guidelines for reform not only by legislation but also by constitutional provisions that form the basis of the judiciary. I speak of basic requirements, such as the exclusion of Parliament from the election and dismissal of judges, the change in the composition of the Supreme Council of Justice to the increase in the number of judges elected by the judges themselves to 50 per cent, the lifting of the probationary period for five years, which is now a judge, the change of power of the Supreme Court of Ukraine. All these recommendations were taken into account in the draft, and the Venice Commission generally welcomed the bill. At the last meeting of the Venice Commission, experts discussed that, in the case of parliamentary elections in Ukraine, it was very important that constitutional changes in Ukraine of the seventh Supreme Council should not be lost. Therefore, I believe that the adoption of this draft constitutional changes will help our State to take a major step forward with regard to the construction of an independent judicial system that meets European requirements. I would also like to remind my distinguished colleagues that, if you look at the transcript of the vote, not only the factions of the Party of Regions and Communists voted in favour of the bill. This is also very important in the adoption of today's vote. It is very important that the best works approved by Europeans be taken into account, if not in today's vote, in subsequent amendments to the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m0.u50	Dear colleagues, we have discussed this with you. Please calm down! And I want to say that in addition to the substantial comments made on the content made by the speakers, the well-known lawyer, the Ukrainian Victor of Sweden, approached me and focused on the topic that actually these changes to the 1996 Constitution. You and I have renewed the Constitution in 2004, and in these circumstances, of course, we cannot correct the law, the constitutional law, which has already obtained the necessary number of votes and was voted on in the first reading. So no one can be changed here, no article can be thrown out, so it's only possible to define here. And I don't see the point of further discussion, because, according to the speeches, he doesn't have 300 votes. So let's say, dear fellows, let's define the way we vote. And in accordance with article 155 of the Constitution of Ukraine, part of the eighth article of article 49 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules of Procedure, I am voting on the proposal to adopt the whole draft Law (registration number 2522a) amending the Constitution on strengthening the guarantees of judges. I ask you to determine by vote, and I ask the honourable national deputies to vote. [[12:29:58]] For 111 The decision is not taken. We can look at the factions, please. Parenthood - 0, Party of Regions - 56, Impact - 1, Economic Development - 24, Freedom - 1, Sovereign European Ukraine - 0, Peace and Stability - 22, Company - 0, non-fractional - 7. Dear colleagues, we need to come to terms with a serious personnel issue right now. And in order to have a discussion of the issue concerning the leadership of the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine, I invite you to the session hall of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, President Peter Alexiyovich Poroshenko of Ukraine. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues! I also want us to welcome Prime Minister Arsenius Petrovich Yatsenuk of Ukraine. Thank you, please. [[Applause]] Dear National Deputies! The word is given to the President of Ukraine, Peter Alexiyovich Poroshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m0.u51	Dear National Deputies! Dear Mr. Head! Today I present to you my comprehensive vision of the leadership of the force bloc and I am submitting to your consideration the nomination of the Ukrainian Defence Minister. At the same time, I inform you that I appoint Lieutenant General Victor Muzenek as the new Chief of Staff, Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces of Ukraine. [[Applause]] The person who has heroically displayed himself now, in carrying out an anti-terrorist operation, is a general with strategic thinking, undeniable authority among the individual composition, a true professional and a true patriot of Ukraine. To improve the coordination of the President with the Ministry of Defence and the full force of the bloc, Yuri Kosyuk will be the first deputy head of the President's Administration to improve the management and organization of the back-up system. But above all, I would like to express my gratitude to the acting minister of defense, Michael Kowalya, whom I am. I would like to congratulate Mikhail Kowala, the colonel general (), who in the most difficult times, however difficult it may be, took responsibility and did everything he could to carry out our army. [[Applause]] I decided to appoint him as Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council. I would also like to express my gratitude to the Chief of General Staff of the Mikhail Kucin Armed Forces, who was injured in an anti-terrorist operation yesterday and is in hospital. Thank you, General, for your service! (Front) [[Applause]] Once again, the criteria I was guided by when I made a complex decision on the design of a force block: professionalism, determination, self-loyalty. Ukraine is facing too many challenges: we need to clear the army of parasites by withdrawing budget funding from it, we need to restore the potential of our military-industrial complex, which has served for many years as a platform for money-laundering through state defense orders. The faults of the destruction of the military-industrial complex and the theft of the material base of the Armed Forces must finally be brought before the law. () [[Applause]] And today I'm going to be the appointed head of Ucrobanprom, and we have to do everything we can to make sure that the military, although the general, the captain who took the bribe, is never again able to pay his respects. In today’s challenges, the Armed Forces need to modernize governance more than ever, as well as to solve the fundamental problem of improving logistics and security. An antiterrorism operation in the East has shown a complete breakdown of the rear security system that has been destroyed over the past 10 years. The lack of quality supplies, the corruption of government spending, the army, like the poor, was surrounded by corrupts who had grown to roots, sucking up government funding. Inefficient logistics, lack of material and technical security – all of this during the ATO has practically had to be improved. Yes, that was not all. I believe that the arrival of new people into the power structures will allow not only a qualitative remedy, but also a breakdown of years of polished corruption schemes, allowing the clean waters of traitors who have tried to exploit the safety of our soldiers. In fact, the military’s strength is being restored from scratch today. An army capable of fighting and winning, I was convinced of this during my personal meetings with soldiers and officers in the ATO zone. An army that knows and knows how to protect the people and the state. [[B in m in s a l in]] So do we. And we will not allow our army to be disgraced and defiled! [[Applause]] Because just as the country today needs the protection of our Armed Forces, the National Guard, the border guards, the Security Service, so the army needs your protection today! Do not be alone with those who try to undermine faith in our army, trying to embezzle it by singing from the foreign voices of Russian propaganda! [[Applause]] At the head of the Ukrainian army, we need people who will work day and night to restore the strength of the Armed Forces. And that's the kind of person I'm proposing to you today. The name of this man is Colonel General Valery Viktorovich Heletei. [[Applause]] Our army needs a leader who, through determination and perseverance, will finally begin immediate reforms: reforms that we were about to undertake 20 years ago; reforms that will allow us to create an army that is. No one else will even think of planning aggression against our nation. The Ukrainian army needs a new commander, a military man who not only learned to fight but also fought himself; a general who felt on himself that it was a hybrid war and understood how to win that war. In addition, we urgently need new approaches in the area of national security. Any treachery or danger to the country must receive a hard and instantaneous reprisal. Dear MPs, dear colleagues, I ask you to support my choice. I'm sure Colonel General Helletay will excuse your confidence. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m0.u52	Dear National Deputies! In accordance with his constitutional authority, the President of Ukraine nominated Valérie Hellette to serve as Defence Minister. In this connection, the President introduced a draft Decree (registration number 4229a) on the release of Koval Mikhail Volodymirovich from the duties of Ukrainian Defence Minister. Please, Your Honor, determine your support for draft Decree No.4229a. Please vote. [[12:40:15.]] For 327 Decision taken. Dear National Deputies! In his speech, the president described Valery Viktorovich Hellet, the colonel general. The relevant draft Decision on the appointment of Valery Viktorovich has been introduced. Can we make decisions without discussion, dear colleagues? We can. Please, Your Honor, support the draft Supreme Council of Ukraine Decision on the appointment of the Hellet Valerija Viktorovich Minister of Defence of Ukraine, registration number 4228a. Please vote. [[12:41:26]] For 260 Decision taken. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, I'd like us to welcome the new Secretary of Defense and wish to do everything we can to protect our country. Let's say hello! [[Applause]] I ask the Secretary of Defense to take the oath of a member of the government. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m0.u53	I, Heletej Valeriy Viktorovich, aware of the high responsibility of a member of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, solemnly swear allegiance to the Ukrainian people. I commit myself to upholding the Constitution of Ukraine and the laws of Ukraine. Strengthen Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence Defending the rights and freedoms of a person and a citizen. Taking care of the welfare of the Ukrainian people, the constant democratic development of society.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m0.u54	Dear colleagues, I, too, have a few words, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m0.u55	Your Honor, Mr. President, the Honourable Head of the Supreme Council, the Honourable Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Honourable People's Deputies! Thank you all for the high trust you have given me today on behalf of the Ukrainian people in this difficult and not easy time for Ukraine. I would also like to thank my predecessor, who was responsible for the responsibility of the Minister of Defense, Michael Kowala, for being able to stop and control the process of separatism in Ukraine. I promise you, I will do everything I can to ensure the safety of our fellow countrymen. I promise you to ensure peace and order in our country, to restore territoriality and integrity in our country, its sovereignty, to bring peace and harmony into our home. [[Applause]] I am convinced that Ukraine will win. And believe me, there will be a victory parade. In the Ukrainian Sevastopol! [[Applause]] Thank you! Glory to Ukraine! [[Applause]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m0.u56	Thank you, Valery Viktorovich. Thank you. Dear colleagues! I would also like us to applaud and thank Mikhail Kowala, the leader, as well as the expressman already, Genstab Kucin, for leading the Armed Forces in difficult circumstances and turning the destroyed army into a armed force! [[Applause]] Thank you. Dear colleagues, I was approached by two factions. Take ten minutes off. It's a faction of Fatherland and Freedom. Is the need for a break confirmed?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m0.u57	Dear colleagues, before we go to the question of including in the day-to-day changes in the Constitution, there is a break of 10 minutes, up to 12 hours of 55 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m0.u58	I'm asking you to take your seats. I ask the Secretariat to make an announcement so that all the national deputies, even those who held the factions, would approach the session room. I'm giving you a few more minutes to get the deputies to the hall and we can get to our work. Ladies and gentlemen, I am convinced that it has been possible for all of us to consult on these difficult but very important issues so that we can now make decisions. And I'm going to remind you that we need to make a decision on the question of initiating the actual constitutional process, more faithfully, to translate it into a real parliamentary plane. In order to do that, we need to include in the order of the day a draft law, the registration number of which is 4178, on making changes to the Constitution. I would like to point out that the main positions of this project concern the powers of state authorities and local self-government. So this is primarily about the question of decentralization of power. Therefore, honourable national MPs, this draft amendment to the Constitution was introduced by the President of Ukraine in accordance with article 154 of the Constitution of Ukraine and defined as urgent. According to the requirements of part one of article 146 of the Rules, the matter is dealt with in full. But, dear fellows, once again, in order for us to actually translate the constitutional process into the parliamentary plane, we need to put this project into the order of the day. Given that inclusion in the agenda is actually the start of constitutional changes in Ukraine, there is a proposal to hold a vote on inclusion in the agenda. No objection, dear colleagues? There is a suggestion that, in the course of the discussion after the information provided by the President of Ukraine, we should be able to speak out of factions. And I'm going to be able to sign up for one performance by non-fractional MPs who'll be lucky not to tell them that I'm subjectively defining those who want to speak. Dear colleagues, I'd like to invite you to the session room of President Peter Alexiyovich Prashenko of Ukraine. The Prime Minister is already in the room. [[Applause]] The word is given to the President of Ukraine, Peter Alexiyovich Prashenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m0.u59	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, Mr. Head! Once again, I would like to thank the Supreme Council of Ukraine for supporting the President's staff proposals and expressing my conviction and hope that our constructive cooperation will continue this way in the future. The changes to the Constitution that are being brought to your mind today are a much broader topic than a mere state system, a form of government, or a balance between branches of government. That's the answer to the question: whether or not to be the only, consummate, indivisible Ukraine. This is a matter of war and peace, which for the first time is in Ukrainian history. And this is the most important part of my peace plan. A plan that will somehow be implemented after the completion of an anti-terror operation. And that's why we can't delay making this decision. We have neither the right nor the ability to postpone it for a month, two for long conversations. If the Supreme Council supports the draft amendments to the Constitution, it will very much disappoint all the unwelcome people of our country, obsessed with the federalization plan, as a tool for dismembering the country. Perhaps the first major change in the Constitution is not to drag a blanket into a triangle of Parliament, the President, the government, but rather to place a wide delegation of authority into communities, regions, regions. The vast majority of changes relate to the decentralization of public authority, the strengthening of the constitutional and legal status of local self-government and its financial capabilities. The decentralization that we've proposed, which we've been entrusted with with European experience, is an antidote to federalization, a powerful vaccine from it. Ukraine was, is and will be a unitary state, this fundamental principle remains intact, intact, incorruptible. This governmental position is based on the opinion of the vast majority of citizens, since all the authoritative social centres conducting public opinion surveys have received similar results. They all say in unison: The vast majority of Ukrainians are in favor of maintaining unitarianism and decentralization of power. On the outside, the idea of federalization is 10 percent, and the number of supporters of it is constantly decreasing. So the people want a single country where real power is as close to people as possible. This, of course, is the basis for the changes I have proposed to the Constitution. You've probably already had the opportunity to get to know the project. I'm going to stop at some of the positions that are particularly important to people, especially our compatriots on Donbass. First. The government will form, not from above, but from below, basic powers will be focused on the basic level: the village, the village, the city. Instead of accepting the heads of administrations from above, the councils that will be selected by the inhabitants of the districts and districts will form their own executions. The executives will exercise executive authority and operational authority in these areas, and the heads of the board will be led by the executives. We have fulfilled our promise to give local authorities additional authority on language matters. Article 10 of the Constitution remains unchanged. The only national language in Ukraine is the Ukrainian language, and there will be no discussion about it and there will be no discussion. I will point out that in recent months the number of adherents throughout the country has increased significantly. We have a solid, convincing majority in favor of a single national language. But in a democratic European society, we cannot fail to respect the rights of minorities, which is why rural, rural, urban, district, district councils will have the right to grant special status of Russian and other languages within their territory and within their competence. This amendment to the Constitution defines the status quo, which is based on valid language legislation. This is a difficult decision I consider a reasonable compromise that will make our country stronger, a nation more united, and all speculation on a language issue will finally be removed from the order of the day. The decentralization institution of Presidential representatives is established in areas and areas. They will not interfere with the operational management of the territory, they will not be assigned to office, they will not share money, they will not be granted a license, they will not have to go to worship. But each of them in the established territory will be careful that the acts of local self-government are consistent with the Constitution and the laws so that no one is "on the way." They will suspend and, through the courts, cancel the illegal decisions of the local authorities, but only after confirmation by the court. As a pupil of the eye, the President's representatives will preserve the unity of the country. If the Constitutional Court establishes a violation of the Constitution by local self-government authorities, only in this case will the President have the right to dissolve the city, the district council or the district council, and not only will he have, but he will exercise that right. Convinced that the head of state has more than enough authority to ensure the right, protection and freedom of people, as well as the territorial integrity of the country, under conditions of decentralization. So I don't see anything negative or dangerous in the fact that for the first time, the President isn't fighting for extra power for himself, because for today, the President has it. Everything in the area is decided by the head of the government: budget, social policy, economy, agrarian complex, industry, and the board is just an addition to the district administration, which is usually controlled by the government. And now everything will be exactly the opposite: there will be none, there will be no administrations, and all power will go to the chosen councils. I am sure that this Constitution draws us closer to Europe. In this context, it is very important to me that my project is supported by the Venice Commission, and a government that has been actively involved in its development has approved of the project. And I would like to thank both the Prime Minister and the government for helping with this process. I've discussed this project with faction leaders, people's deputies, and the changes were discussed on round tables initiated by the President and the government. In fact, for days I reported the project to the heads of the local government of Donbas and received the full support of its basic provisions. Most importantly, the approval of the concept and the constitutional changes in decentralization -- I got hundreds of thousands of people from my electoral campaign. It was my key promise, and at every meeting, and during the campaign from the east to the east with more than a million people, we talked about changes to the Constitution, about decentralization, and we had absolute support for this project. Dear National Deputies! In your fate, this calling of the Supreme Council has already resulted in a lot more decisions, perhaps more than your predecessors. But the most important choice was to make right now. I'm counting on you to make an operational and positive decision. Convinced that the adoption and implementation of changes to the Constitution provides a credible way to address the crisis in Donbassa, it brings power to people throughout the country. Without that, we have nothing to go to Donbas. Because only a military instrument of victory will be there. First of all, through the tools of the peace plan, we need to fight for the hearts of those who live on the Donbass. And I'm asking for your help. I suggest and call, just please press the "for" button. And this will be the victory of our national congregation, which will come out of the trials of the last century as strong and as complex as ever before. Thank you for your attention. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m0.u60	The report is given to the head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Legal Policy, Pisarenek Valerija Volodymirovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m0.u61	Dear colleagues, Your Honor Chairman, Your Honor Mr. President! We have received for consideration a bill submitted by the President to amend the Constitution, where, according to the Explanatory Note to the Bill, the purpose of the proposed amendments is to improve the constitutional legal status of the higher public authorities according to the principles of the functioning of the State with the parliamentary and presidential form of government, as well as to reform the constitutional legal status of local self-government bodies. The bill proposes to improve the constitutional principles for the functioning of the Supreme Council as the sole legislative representative body, to clarify certain aspects of the constitutional legal status of the President of Ukraine, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Prosecutor's Office, and to establish a system of local government and the principles of the organization of government in the areas and areas. In accordance with article 145 of the Supreme Council’s Rules of Procedure, a committee is established that, according to article 154, part one of article 156 of the Basic Law of Ukraine, a bill is submitted by the appropriate body of the legislative initiative of the President of Ukraine. According to the committee, the adoption of the bill does not require a simultaneous amendment to Chapter I of the General Principles, chapter III of the Elections. Referendum, chapter III, "Improving Changes to the Constitution of Ukraine." This would mean that a review of such a bill would not require a nationwide referendum. Today you and I can make one of these decisions. First. To include such a bill in the agenda, and then the MPs may be able to work with this text of the document. The other one. To adopt this bill, to include it in the agenda and at the same time to send it to the Constitutional Court for its conclusion. This decision will be solely behind this sessionary hall, because today, I understand, not all the political powers have participated in the debate on this issue at the Supreme Council Committee on Legal Policy. So the Supreme Council can today adopt one of these decisions and start making changes to the Constitution from these procedural points. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m0.u62	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'd like to ask the factions and MPs to sign up. The word is given to the representative of the Communist Party of Ukraine Simonenko Peter Mikolaiovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m0.u63	Dear colleagues! Why won't the Company's faction support these proposals? In the event of the adoption of the initial draft law amending the Constitution, note that the Head of State will, officially at the level of the Basic Law, place in his hands not only direct management of the sphere of defence and external political activity, but also fairly broad powers on extremely important issues of economic policy, but through his representatives in the regions and areas he appoints and liberates individually, effectively subordinates the entire vertical of executive authorities and self-government, local councils and their implementing bodies. Once again, proposals for changes to the Constitution are aimed at substantially expanding presidential powers by narrowing the prerogatives of the Supreme Council and the government. Such constitutional powers have not yet been exercised by any president of Ukraine. I stress this in connection with the declarations that were made during the elections and in Maidan. The President shall appoint and dismiss from office the head of the Antimonopoly Committee, Heads and Members of the National Commissions, without the appointment of the Government or Prime Minister, who shall carry out the national regulation of natural monopolies in the fields of communication and information, securities markets and financial services. This is taken away from the authority of the Supreme Council. Local government administrations are being eliminated, but instead they are expected to establish an institution of Presidential representatives across the entire vertical area with very broad powers. In exercising their powers, the Presidential representatives will be accountable to the President, responsible and subject only to him. Presidential representatives will coordinate the activities of representatives in the areas, the organisation and activities of Presidential representatives in the regions and areas should be defined by a separate law The President's representatives are under surveillance. The President's representatives will coordinate the interaction between the territorial authorities, the central executive authorities, especially the power structures, the control bodies. It's extremely important to understand what functions they will have when they enter a state of emergency. According to the Presidential representatives, the President will stop the decisions of the local self-government authorities on the grounds of their inadequacy with the laws and the Constitution. That is, there is a direct motivation for not allowing local authorities to work at any time. Local governments will have no effect on the activities of the President. In this connection, it is worth reminding that the local councils are now entitled to express their mistrust to the heads of local government, who have also been appointed and relieved of their office as President of the Cabinet of Ministers. This means the creation in Ukraine of a fairly rigid, centralized, personally subordinated head of state of vertical power, to which the government will not be involved. Many years of experience in the country shows that the presence in the region of two parallel organs does not rarely lead to conflict, determining which one of them is the chief, the elder. It's practical, this dualism that we've been fighting all the time. We cannot agree that the prosecutor’s office also loses oversight principles. So once again.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m0.u64	Half a minute, give me a chance to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m0.u65	Once again, I would like to emphasize that the Company's faction proposes to fulfil the commitments made by the President when he said that he is primarily supporting the parliamentary-presidential republic and all efforts will be directed towards the real decentralisation of power, namely the transfer of these powers to the district, city and district councils, and the implementing structures that approve these.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m0.u66	National MP Sphenov, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m0.u67	Please pass the word to Pisarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m0.u68	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m0.u69	Dear colleagues, the honourable chairman! Dear Mr. President! Should we be engaged in the constitutional process today? Of course, yes. And I want to remind you that this is the third time in a very small time that we want to make a substantial change to the Constitution. For the first time, it was a task force, and after that, it was a temporary special commission. Today we have the initiative of the President of Ukraine, who proposes his vision of changes to the Constitution of Ukraine. Of course, it would be better to pursue the Constitution when there is no peace in Ukraine. And when we can calmly engage in the Constitution. But today the situation is that we do not have time to delay. And of course, we need to avoid making mistakes that have unfortunately been made in the past few drafts of the Constitution. The point is that certain participants in the process were out of the game. That the Constitution was often done coolly and we didn't see the final result. Today we are talking about the need for decentralization in Ukraine. Of course, by that word, many people understand their own vision differently. Today decentralization for us is the transfer of most authority to places, it's giving local councils the right to decide their own issues, including humanitarian issues, including language issues, including the development of their own regions. And of course, we see changes to the Constitution today as the way to peace in our country. Today, here in the session room, we must finally unite around the ideas that we have constantly proclaimed. These are ideas that have been introduced by all the factions in the draft amendments to the Constitution, which unfortunately not all have reached the session room today and have not even been reflected in the single text of the document. We see that today all the questions we would like to see in these suggestions are not solved. The initiative that we have today gives us the way for parliament to start work. But the work that should lead to the results when the whole country hears what they hear in Kiev, and the fact that everyone has equal opportunities is equal to rights, and that all regions of Ukraine can develop equally successfully. So we're going to propose stronger changes, stronger proposals. Such suggestions were made when the initiative came to Parliament. We hope that the proposals will be taken into account and that we will come up with the text of a document that will be approved by Parliament, will receive 300 votes, will be signed by the President of Ukraine, and that this process will be completed as soon as possible for peace and stability in the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m0.u70	National Deputy Razwadowski, Sovereign European Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m0.u71	Thank you. Please pass the word to Bondar, the national MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m0.u72	Please, National Deputy Bondar.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m0.u73	Dear Mr. President, Your Honor Chairman, Prime Minister! The Group "Supreme European Ukraine" certainly supports the process of change to the Constitution of Ukraine. And today we will unanimously vote for the inclusion of this issue in the agenda, in order to begin this consideration and to have the opportunity of each faction, each MP to prove his views on the changes that Ukraine is going to make in the next six months in terms of constitutional and real economic reforms. Of course, the key issue of the new constitution should be decentralization, as spoke of by the President of Ukraine. And in the decentralization plan, we not only see a transfer of powers under the Constitution, we will initiate that at the same time the government will introduce bills that will relate to changes to the Code of Budgets, changes to the Tax Code, and also transfer the funds to the places to actually come into the regions, real opportunities to decide the fate of people, to decide the issues of people with real financial fulfillment. In addition, we understand the need to study carefully the blocks of the Constitution that apply to humanitarian policy, health care, and education. That is, these questions that are of great concern to people today: pension reform and so forth. We understand that the process of reforming the legal system and the judicial system is also needed. And these blocks in the Constitution need to be carefully studied. It's about time now in six months to go through all the successive steps, to look at, and each faction will give its vision, its load of these blocks, so that we can get a real new Constitution with a real transfer of powers, a really changed system. And this will enable Ukraine to get into European harmonised legislation that will allow for further development under European rules. Of course, we will support these initiatives today. We therefore ask and insist that today's issue be included in the agenda in accordance with article 46, paragraph 1, of the Supreme Council's Rules of Procedure, which allows today's launch of the procedure to be confirmed and to lead it to a logical conclusion within six months. So we're going to vote unanimously. We support, and we continue to see Parliament's actions as a demonstration of unity and a demonstration of European choice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m0.u74	The word from the strike faction is given to the national deputy Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m0.u75	Dear Ukrainians! Every day in eastern Ukraine, mercenaries today kill Ukrainian soldiers for a very large amount of foreign money, and so do Ukrainian women and children. And here in this session room, some people are trying to kill Ukraine every day, continuing with the same for the external money of all kinds of Kurczenks, six Yanukovichs, for millions of dollars a month to kill the country, speculating on the subject of language, federalization, separatization, without even knowing the meaning of those words. And today, our mission with you, this session hall, which unfortunately is as much part of the country's division, is to do everything for unity, supporting the President's peace plan, for which millions of Ukrainians have actually voted for today, to do so in a legitimate way, not as the previous authority, because of the decision of the Handy Constitutional Court, it has stolen people's right to accept the Constitution itself and to decide in general what will happen to their country. And so it is quite obvious that today we will be able to help you with the decentralization of Ukraine by making changes to the Constitution. So it's obvious that our strike faction will support the introduction of this bill today, and the referral of it to the Constitutional Court, and the voting for this bill. And finally, if there's a question for this bill in the session room, let's vote to send it to the Constitutional Court, which will answer the professional question of what's right and what might seem wrong to someone. You and I need to do everything we can today to knock the goats out of the hands of people who hate Ukraine and continue to speculate on it; so that local authorities can get more authority on the issue of humanitarian, social, economic policy. Moreover, today, when this draft Constitution, which is being submitted to the Supreme Council, is annulled by the institution of local princes, heads of government, which, on behalf of the President, ruled in the regions, is actually about not only this cancellation, but what is going to be a huge savings in government funds due to the downsizing of the government apparatus, which is also now extremely principled for the pervasive Ukrainian budget. It's left over, the Presidential Institution is actually being introduced in places, but it's still there to keep it in place and actually to keep it under control. But it is obvious that, as the previous speakers have stressed, including the President of Ukraine, it is not possible to dissolve any local self-government body without a decision by the Constitutional Court. And our task with you is to make sure that never again the Constitutional Court of Ukraine is a pocket organ of any authority, this is what we're talking about.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m0.u76	Let me finish, half a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m0.u77	So we're asking you to support not only the President of Ukraine, but Donetsk. Lugansk, Lviv, Cherkas, Kyiv, Vinnic, Dnipropetrovsk, Kharkiv, who appeal to each and every one of us about the fact that there should be more authority and more rights in places, but they must be brought in a legal way with us. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m0.u78	Thank you. From the "Fatherland" faction, National Deputy Vlasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m0.u79	Dear colleagues, the Fatherland faction, having received this draft of the Constitution today, has carefully considered it at its meeting because it was moved today if no one knows.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m0.u80	Colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m0.u81	03.07.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m0.u82	As for the content, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m0.u83	It's about content. Having received this bill today, the "Fatherland" faction reviewed it at its meeting and decided unanimously, unanimously, unanimously: to vote for the inclusion of the bill in the agenda. We considered it carefully, and unfortunately we did not see any issues related to the removal of parliamentary, judicial, and presidential integrity; we did not see a decrease in the composition of the Supreme Council there; we did not see any other issues that the Ukrainian people so called for. In addition to the issues of decentralization, we have seen an increase in the power of the President not only in the question of the appointment of the head of the Antimonopoly Committee, heads and heads of the respective national commissions -- we have seen an increase in the power of the President to influence the local authorities. If that head of administration mentioned earlier could have been retired by two thirds of the council, it is now impossible. This representative of the President has been authorized to monitor the legality of the territory entrusted to him and to coordinate the central executive authorities in the territory entrusted to him. What this relationship has to do with decentralization, we don't understand. We did not understand the basis for article 142, which dealt with the authority of local authorities that had been removed from the Constitution, and instead these powers would be established by law. We have not seen a wide public discussion of this text of the Constitution. That's why the "Fatherland" faction insists that after the project is included in the agenda, a broad, public discussion of this project will begin. Yes, we really think that the question of decentralization is a matter of war and peace, and that's why the faction of "The Fatherland" will introduce an alternative bill that will only deal with issues of decentralization and only issues related to the Procuratorial Act and the status of the Public Prosecutor's Office. [[Applause]] That is what we consider to be the solution and solution to the crisis. Once again, the Fatherland faction has made a unanimous decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m0.u84	Let me finish half a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m0.u85	The "Fatherland" faction has decided to include this bill in the agenda, in order to really start a real one, I emphasize this word, the real constitutional process, without propaganda stamps and without confusion, with a view to forming that Constitution and the decentralization that the Ukrainian people so expect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m0.u86	From the Freedom faction, National Deputy Tegnibok, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m0.u87	Glory to Ukraine! Oleg Tuggnibok, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Respectable Society! Should the Constitution of Ukraine be approved, a new edition? You definitely have to. This is what Ukrainian society is expecting from us today, and this is what the international community is looking for, and this will give us an opportunity to bring the order in the middle of the Ukrainian state, including, I think, to fight the external aggressor. But is it necessary to adopt changes to the Constitution, even under pressure from outside circumstances? I don't think so. Because it's a matter of a nation's development strategy, not a political tactic. The representatives of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Association took the most active part in the proposals and the work of the temporary commission that made these changes. And we're very sorry that no proposal from the All-U.S. Freedom Association, and this is actually a proposal from the community, a proposal from Maidan, has been introduced into this draft Constitution. Specifically. The draft amendments to the Constitution did not raise the question of the election of members of the people to Parliament by a proportional system, under open electoral lists, no cancellation of the inviolability of the national deputies of Ukraine, the President and the Judges, no appeal procedure for Ukraine's constituents, no reduction in the number of parliaments to 300 deputies, no election of local judges by the Ukrainian community, no ban on Nazi communist ideology. () [[Applause]] Instead, we have very serious doubts about several articles that I will not stop my special attention to. This also applies to the mandatory mandate, this also applies to the procedure for the possibility of "breathing" in Parliament. But the most important thing that stops us is 143 articles: rural, rural, urban, district councils can grant within the appropriate administrative and territorial unit special status to Russian, other languages of national minorities. This is actually the equivalent of 10 articles in the Constitution. If it is put into effect, which refers to the status of the only national language – Ukrainian, we have every village, not state, to solve a language issue. So Freedom can vote in favour of putting the issue in the agenda and only to introduce an alternative bill will it be possible to do so. But we will definitely not vote in such an order to refer to the Constitutional Court. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m0.u88	Dear colleagues, the People's Deputy of China, the MP's Economic Development Group. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m0.u89	Dear Mr. President, distinguished national MPs! The Economic Development Union is very much asking to focus your attention, the responsibility that the consideration of constitutional reform issues takes place in the face of unprecedented risks that our country today has given to Ukraine, the choice of its statehood, territorial integrity and, most importantly, the right of the Ukrainian people to their strategic choice and the irreversibility of Ukraine's development as a modern democratic, competitive state. We urge everyone to consider the issue of constitutional reform as a task of national importance, which should be above the conditions of the current, personal, or political environment. This is a factor in the consolidation of Ukrainian society, it is a factor of confidence in Ukraine by the international community, which is helping us today to protect our statehood, our dignity and the lives of our citizens. The Economic Development Union clearly supports the main direction of the creation in Ukraine of a parliamentary-presidential form of the state system, allowing for a more effective balance of responsibilities between branches of government, avoiding the repetition of recent tragic events that have been concentrated in one branch of government. It's very important -- and we're directing your attention, and we're going to work on the content of constitutional reform -- the inadmissibility of politicization in the actions of the force, the law enforcement agencies, which have become a factor in political conjuncturing and the destruction of political or commercial competitors. The main target is decentralization. That State, which can delegate its powers to the community, has a chance to develop on the basis of civil democratic society and to maximize its use of intellectual, industrial, human, natural potential for effective development. We support the need for a clear formulation of the status of the only national Ukrainian language with the right of local communities to determine the status of special languages in the territories. We support the need to abolish the imperative mandate as a factor in the formation in Ukraine of modern European standards of democracy of law and state. Therefore, the integration of Economic Development supports the need to incorporate the draft law on constitutional reform into the agenda, calling for tight deadlines to be sent to the Constitutional Court, and this will be a very serious step both in protecting the national interests and development of Ukraine as a democratic state. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m0.u90	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I have promised you that it will be possible to speak out without any frequency. With so many hands, I ask the nonfractional to sign up for the performance. The first person selected by the Council system gets the word. Please sign up. National deputy Kanovec, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m0.u91	I give the word to Oleg Laishka.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m0.u92	Please. Not to be accused of subjectively giving my word to Lyashko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m0.u93	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. I sincerely thank my colleague Kanitz for the opportunity to come up with such a vital question. I think he gave the floor not to me, but to those one and a half million Ukrainian citizens who voted for me in the last presidential election. Thank you very much! Dear Peter Alexiyovich, Mr. President, Your Honor Mr. Head, your fellow national MPs! Ukraine is now living in wartime. Peter Alexiyovich, with all due respect to you, but I believe that the draft Constitution you're proposing is not in time. First we have to defeat the enemy, first we have to complete the anti-terror operation, and then we're going to talk about the changes to the Constitution. We have changed the Constitution several times in recent years, and as you can see, there is no order in the country. Isn't the Constitution to blame for the lack of order? Or are we to blame? You know, like Krilov's, "And you're friends and you're not good at music." And we change the Constitution with every new president. And we change it, unhappy, and we change it, unhappy, and we're all talking about what we're finally changing the Constitution -- and there's going to be order in the country. I don't think the Constitution is going to change, and you're all going to have to change. You're all going to have to change, not the Constitution! Now for the anti-terror operation. Peter Alexiyovich, the entire Ukrainian public, was shocked to hear another statement about a truce, about the possibility of an end to an antiterrorist operation. I'm a firm opponent, and believe me, I know what people are thinking. The vast majority of Ukrainians want you, Peter Alexiyovich, as promised before the elections, as you are doing now, to complete this anti-terror operation immediately. And it will end when the last terrorist with a weapon is either destroyed or fled our home land. Then there will be order in the country. Any negotiations with terrorists will lead to the defeat of Ukraine. You, Peter Alexiyovich, meet the so - called Donbas elites you are trying to make a deal with. The real Donbas elites are the patriots who today free Donbas from terrorists. Donbasu's elite is not the mayor's traitors and the deputy traitors who brought the terrorists to Donbas. Their policies set war on Donbassa today. And today, your attempts to make a deal with them will lead us to preserve the situation that the Donetsk-Lugansk mafia has both robbed the country and will continue to rob. So I ask you, Peter Alexiyovich, do not make any deals with those who did not speak in defense of the country. Show me one of the regional MPs or the Crimea who were speaking out against the referendum, who were speaking out on the terrorists. There's none! What do you want to deal with them?Oh, my God! They robbed and they still want to rob. And today we have a mafia rebellion on Donbas. Therefore, arrangements must be made to support Ukrainian patriots who protect Ukraine. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m0.u94	Dear colleagues, we've been exchanging thoughts about, Your Honor, the Council system has chosen, you've seen, the People's Deputies of Laszka. So please, please, dear colleagues, we have an agreement. We agreed, from each faction there are 10 willing to speak. So please calm down. Now a national deputy was speaking from the non-fractional. So, colleagues, please calm down. Dear colleagues! My colleagues, once again, I do not need to be accused of subjectiveness. He was given the word, a national MP, chosen by the Council system. Please, if he gave you his word, I would also give you the opportunity to speak from the rostrum. Please don't disturb me. Please don't interfere with your work. Dear colleagues, we've exchanged thoughts, we've had the opportunity to speak with representatives of all the MPs and factions and non-faction MPs. So we need to make a decision about the beginning of the constitutional process. For us to begin the constitutional process, we need to include in the agenda the draft Act amending the Constitution of Ukraine No. 4178a, introduced by President of Ukraine Prashenko Peter Alexiyovich. Dear colleagues, I ask you again. In order for us to start the process, we need to identify ourselves on this very issue. Then we'll have the opportunity to have a public discussion and in the next plenary week we'll be able to figure out the future of this project. In the case of alternative projects, these projects are also available. Please, Your Honor, support the inclusion of draft amendments to Constitution No. 4178a in the agenda. Please vote. [[13:52:37]] For 277 Decision taken. Thank you. We started the constitutional process with you. Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleagues, please, calm down! We have to take a few more. The factions. I'm announcing the results of the factions. Parenthood – 80, Party of Regions – 5, Impact – 39, Economic Development – 37, Freedom – 34, Sovereign European Ukraine – 32, Peace and Stability – 4, Company – 0, non-fractional – 46. Dear colleagues, I have a huge request. We have the Prime Minister working with you in the morning. We need to consider now, without distinction, dear colleagues, I very much ask that I continue for 10 to 15 minutes of the Supreme Council meeting. But we need to take a calm look at the energy security issues of Ukraine right now. It is from these issues that the Prime Minister wishes to make appropriate comments in order for Parliament to take a decision. Colleagues! I'll have the team shut the door so the MPs won't run. Time's not up for our work yet. Please take your seats. Dear colleagues, I ask you now to let us make a decision with you in the bill on a special period in the fuel-energy complex. These are three alternative projects. Colleagues! Attention! And I'm asking you, fellow honourable Members, to support us so that we can vote on the short-term procedure for dealing with this important issue. Please, Your Honor, support the reduced procedure. Please vote. [[13:54:41]] For 197 Decision procedure accepted. The word is given to Minister of Energy and Coal Industry Sold to Yuri Vasilovich. Please. Yuri Vasilovich, please go to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m0.u95	Dear Alexander Valentinovich! Dear National Deputies! You're looking at a draft Special Period Act in a fuel-energy complex. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I'd like you to know very well what the situation is today in the fuel-energy complex. First of all, Gazprom, the Russian side, when the Russian side offered us a discriminatory, unfair price for gas, stopped supplying gas to Ukraine. Ukraine is looking for alternative gas supplies from European countries. We found these paths. However, as you know, today there are allegations from the Russian side that, and there are threats to suppliers, European gas suppliers that such supplies are illegal, even though they are now fully in line with European Union legislation. It's quite a difficult situation for today, too, and you can see it beautifully, in the coal sector. Despite the war that is now being fought in this region, I want to thank our miners for continuing to supply coal to our power stations. However, the situation is tense and complex. Ladies and gentlemen, it is very important that we adopt an appropriate bill today. The purpose of this bill is to address the issue of the order of operation of the fuel-energy complex in a special period. We're preparing for a special fall-winter today. The bill proposes to define the mandate of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the central executive authorities to ensure the formation and implementation of state policies in the fuel-energy complex, primarily aimed at ensuring the unbreakable and stable operation of the fuel-energy complex during a special period. Besides, the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m0.u96	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m0.u97	the characteristics of regulation of public authorities in the conduct of business activities by enterprises and institutions, organizations in a special period in the fuel and electricity complex. Ladies and gentlemen, the main purpose of this bill is to ensure the operation of a fuel-energy complex during a special period when energy supplies are limited to Ukraine. The main objective of this bill is to preserve the country's vitality, to ensure the functioning of the economy, to provide light and warmth in our homes. Ladies and gentlemen, please support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m0.u98	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have two other alternative bills. The authors insist on performing? They insist. Please, Martovicki, National MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m0.u99	Dear Alexander Valentinovich, dear colleagues! Your opinion is proposed to consider the draft Law on the Special Working Regime of the Ukrainian Gas Complex (Registration No. 4117a-1) as an alternative bill to the previous Bill on a Special Period in a Fuel and Energy Complex. I want to first describe the bill of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine at number 4117a. It proposes to introduce a special period in the entire fuel-energy complex of Ukraine, which is primarily related to the restriction of constitutional rights and freedoms of citizens. In doing so, no decision by the Supreme Council and the President of Ukraine on the introduction of military or state of emergency or the decision on mobilization is required. That is, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine alone can impose restrictions on the same rights and freedoms throughout the country. The draft law gives unlimited powers to regulate the central authority that implements state policy in a fuel-energy complex. In fact, manual control of the entire amount of fuel-energy complex is implemented: the oil-gas, coal market and the wholesale electricity market. Of course, the issue of the safe operation of the fuel-energy complex is one of the main issues for the state, but it should be noted that the fuel-energy complex includes enterprises whose economic activities do not significantly affect the balance, coming and distribution of natural gas. In particular, heat, hydro, and nuclear power plants do not consume much of natural gas, and heat plants consume it primarily to produce heat and hot water. So the maximum consumption of gas for heat and hot water is only 5.7 percent of total consumption, and the gas is hardly used.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m0.u100	I'm asking you, half a minute, finish it, but no more, because we won't be able to make a decision. Dear colleagues, I announce an extension of the sessional morning session for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m0.u101	So, in order to solve the problems of gas distribution in the context of its deficit and to empower the public authorities, at the same time, I have developed an alternative bill, which introduces a special regime, namely, that only in the gas complex provides all the necessary full powers to mine and stimulate natural gas production, sets out the main steps to prepare the gas complex for permanent operation during the special operation period, introduces mandatory sales of natural gas to the gas undertakings on market conditions, gives the Cabinet of Ministers the authority to restrict the supply of gas to the population at the same time.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m0.u102	Thank you. I got the offer. Please, National Deputy Derevyanco. I'm asking you to step into the rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m0.u103	Yuri Derevyanco, 87th Majority Electoral District. Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! The bill I have introduced is an alternative to the bill passed by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The only difference between my bill and the government bill is that the funds of the State budget received by Ukraine under the Kyoto Protocol should be channelled on a competitive basis solely towards energy conservation measures. In fact, measures are being taken in those social areas that are now owned or owned by local communities, namely, education, health care, and culture. Today we have about 3 billion dollars of that kind, but the schemes that were created in the Yanukovic regime have remained valid today. I mean, what we've got today is about 2.9 billion dollars of contract contracts made at Kyoto costs among those companies that are the winners of these tenders. There are companies that have one working or zero employees that have zero basic assets, and these companies report for one, two, 2013 and 2014 that they don't do business. And these companies today are the winners of the Kyoto Protocol tenders. When we talk about what we're looking for in the state of energy, we expect that we're going to have a cold winter, first of all, this 3 billion money we need to channel our schools, our kindergartens, so that our other treatment facilities are made energy conservation measures: replaced windows, replaced all the necessary things. It is not enough that all the energy - saving projects at the appropriate schools have a health care facility.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m0.u104	I've asked for regulations, Your Honor. We won't be able to make a decision. Give me half a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m0.u105	All these projects have been in this agency for two years. I have asked the Attorney General's Office, the Prime Minister of Ukraine to investigate these facts, but this bill suggests that this is precisely the responsibility of the government -- to direct these funds exclusively to these measures -- to foresee. So that we don't repair subway cars, so that we don't buy cars for the Ministry of Health and Social Affairs, but that these costs in this problem are directed exclusively to the energy conservation of our health and social institutions.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m0.u106	Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss? We shall vote without discussion. Dear colleagues, the only one, Mikola Volodymyrovich, I ask the head of the committee on the rostrum, one minute, which the law itself proposes to support the committee so that the MPs can determine.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m0.u107	Dear Alexander Valentinovich! We have a decision on all three bills, one, it sounds like this. Bills 4117a, 4117a-1, 4117a-2 shall be submitted to the Supreme Council for consideration and shall be determined by the National Deputies to support or reject these bills by voting. This suggests that these bills still need to be worked on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m0.u108	Dear colleagues, the offer is 4117a. Please take your seats. Dear colleagues, this is a matter of the energy security of our country in the condition that the Russian Federation tries to conduct an energy blackmail of Ukraine, we must be prepared to do so. And that's what the government's proposals for in this law are about. Please, Your Honor, 4117a support in the first reading, that is to say, so that those proposals that came from the national deputy of Derevyanka, Martovitchki, and from other national deputies to the second reading could be worked out and taken into account during the general vote. Please, Your Honor, support this project as a basis. Please vote 4117a. [[14:06:16]] For-142 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Parenthood – 75, Regions – 0, Impact – 14, Economic Development – 27, Freedom – 0, Sovereign European Ukraine – 13, Peace and Stability – 1, Company – 0, non-fractional – 12. Dear colleagues, I think this is a very irresponsible position of national MPs who refused to support the government. I make the following laws regarding the adoption of them in the first reading, that is, on the basis of the Rules. I understand that under the Rules I have to put all the laws to the vote, and then it will be determined. 4117a-1, please proceed to Parliament. [[14:07:20]] For-93 The decision is not taken. The next law is 4117a-2. I would like to make a decision on Parliament. [[14:07:42]] For-27 The decision is not taken. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to give the floor to the Prime Minister so that we can determine the future fate of this project. Colleagues, please don't leave the session room. Arsenius Petrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m0.u109	Dear Mr. Head, honourable people's deputies, I appeal first to a coalition that should support the Ukrainian government, because a government formed on a coalition principle. You'll be sitting in the winter without gas! Understand? Unless you support the government's bill. I'm done.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m0.u110	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, this is a serious, responsible question, please. I refer first to members of the coalition, to all the deputies who care about the fate of their own country, their own homeland, to support in the first reading, i.e. on the basis of Bill 4117a, which is proposed by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. For the second reading, we can work on this project, take into account your suggestions, but right now we can't stop this process, dear colleagues. Please return to your consideration of the matter. Please vote. [[14:09:21]] For 181 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Parenthood – 76, Regions – 1, Impact – 24, 22 – Economic Development, Freedom – 30, 14 – Sovereign, European Ukraine, Peace and Stability – 1, Company – 0, non-fractional – 13. Dear colleagues, we can come back with you now, but I don't see the number of votes that can support this law right now. That's why I'm asking you, dear colleagues. Please, Your Honor, let the faction leaders hold consultations, and we could. had the opportunity to return to that question after a break. At this morning's meeting, we're adjourned. The Supreme Council will continue its work at 4:00.
