ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-04-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:05:17]] There were 378 national deputies registered in the hall. Dear colleagues, honourable deputies, at the opening ceremony of the fourth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, there is the Acting Prime Minister of Ukraine's first Vice-Prime Minister Sergey Hennadiyovich Arbuzov and members of the government. The present Attorney-General of Ukraine Victor Pavlovich Pshonka and the head of the Ukrainian President's Administration, Andri Petrovich Klavev; the leaders of the judicial branch of power, the officials elected by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, appoints and authorizes them to serve; the heads of diplomatic representations of foreign states for other officials. In accordance with article 83 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the fourth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the seventh vocation is publicized. [[The National Hymn of Ukraine]] Dear National Deputies! I would now like to share my thoughts on resolving the political crisis and ensuring stability in the state. That is, our first plenary day should be the day of the open parliamentary rostrum and allow us to express to those who wish not only to the leaders of factions but also to the deputies. So it's suggested that six minutes should be given to the faction leaders. And I'm asking you, who's going to come out of the non-faction? Allowing the National Deputies to sign up for three minutes to address the situation in our country today. So I'm asking the representatives of the MPs to sign up for the speech from the rostrum. Please sign up. I beg of you, the Party of the Regions. People's Deputy Bobkov. I'm asking you to come to the rostrum for Alexander Sergiyovich Efraemov's speech. [[B in m in s a l in]] Come on! [[B in m in s a l in]] Alexander Sergiyovich, come in.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-04-m0.u2	Dear President, distinguished colleagues! The least I'd like to talk about is what I have to talk about. [[B in m in s a l in]] Ukraine today is experiencing perhaps the most dramatic period in its recent history. Further escalation of the conflict could lead to civil strife and catastrophic consequences. In doing so, we have no answer to the questions: Who controls the street and is responsible for extremist actions — the seizure of public buildings and various provocations? Who is directing the militias to take over public institutions in the areas? Of the many statements made by the leaders of the parliamentary opposition, it is not clear whether you take responsibility for what is happening or use people to achieve your career goals while trying to get away from all the crimes committed. And where is this feature of cynicism, when democracy and freedom of speech are spoken of from the rostrum, and in parallel, family members, women and children of those who have a different view of the threat of physical destruction. Is that your way to Europe? Or do you think this is the path that will lead you to power? I personally doubt that. Not always, as modern experience has shown, the consultations of foreign experts you are actively paying attention to can benefit the vast majority of your country's people. I ask you to think about it, who can think, not just shout. As for the next one. We are proud of those who have a sovereign independent State. Now, we are not sovereign or independent today. Because it is not in a position to make a decision and meet the challenges. Look at the number of counselors around. In Europe, there are elections. Some European politicians are making a career of their own today. And some of our patriots in the holopaedic pose beat up their hostess. Question: aren't you ashamed of yourself? Where is your national pride? Now about our parliamentary work. In the wake of the political struggle, we have stopped noticing that the parliament of the current assembly is moving further away from its main purpose and is becoming a battle club of its own. Now it's obvious. Unilateral assessments, political ultimatums and attempts to block the rostrum are a dead end, and wild revue speaks of a lack of culture. When politicians were silenced, the street began to speak. This clearly separates Ukraine from the fundamental principles of European democracy, creates chaos and opposition in society. I would like to hope that the next session of the Supreme Council will be a turning point and that we will not allow a catastrophic provocative scenario to take place. Having established a negotiating group, understanding all the responsibility for the country's fate, the President of Ukraine proposed unprecedented compromises, stating his willingness to go to amnesty for all participants in street confrontations and in parallel with the cessation of riots and the removal of people from administrative buildings. And we voted in favour of this agreed position. Consider changes to the Constitution. On the basis of the representation of political forces in Parliament, reform the law within the time frame of the Central Electoral Commission. Improve the legal framework for electoral legislation. By the way, we, the Party of the Regions, have been talking for three years about the need to adopt the Electoral Code. And most of all. In order to consolidate all the political forces responsible for the country's fate, the President proposed the highest positions in the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to the leaders of the opposition. In response to opposition politicians, there is widespread silence or savage poverty as it is today, and radicals are further trying to exacerbate the situation. It's a dead end. I therefore invite everyone to forget the insults, not to think of the victories and defeats of their careers, but to work together to develop a strategy to overcome the situation, namely, an agreement in Parliament and a political compromise among all political forces. And the last. If someone calls for power to be taken by force, it's a provocation that pushes you to blood and destroys the state. Get him out of here! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-04-m0.u3	It's Vitaly Call's Faction. This is Vitaly Klitschko, the manager of the Vitaly Klitschko faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-04-m0.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, this week's Parliament is facing a very important task. And that's what the Ukrainian people are doing. You all see, people are out on the street. Regardless of the region, regardless of East, South, North, West, Kiev, Dnipropetrovsk, Zaporozhye, Donetsk, Lviv. People came out because they wanted to say, "That's enough!".. They are tired of living in lawlessness when there are no laws when there is no point in going to court, there is no place to look for the truth when total corruption, when there is no prospect for its future, for future children. People came out, so they say, "That's enough!" And to this day, there are many politicians who, and this is the opposition of people against power. But a lot of politicians who want to put this movement in a completely different direction. They're looking for a difference. Differences, i.e. they start again, draw out their old song -- it's our language, it's not our language, it's not our heroes, it's not our story, it's not our story, it's our principles, it's not our principles. Anything just to break society apart. I am confident that today’s political crisis is the full responsibility of the authorities. Thus, power has led to today’s situation. And to this day the authorities can solve this problem. But we have one more pitch left, this is the Supreme Council. And I appeal to you all, we are obliged to do the fate of the people. We are obliged to listen to them. And one way to solve this problem is to redistribute powers in the state. Because today’s monopoly has led to the situation we are in today. One of the proposals is very important and sure, and then people will be sure that they have changes in the country that started the reforms. We were promised that reforms would start with Euro-integration. It didn't happen. Okay, let's move on. We have to go back to constitutional reform, which was changed into an unconstitutional tool in 2010, and we now have a chance to return to constitutional reform. This is one of the ways we can get the country out of the political crisis by taking it one step at a time. European standards first. I'm sure if we don't do this, society can explode, and we can see this anger in the streets. So I urge everyone: we must go in a civilized way. Let's stop the dictatorship. We return to the Constitution, which makes deputies the subject of decisions, not buttons. We should also announce elections in Kiev and district centres, where they have not been held for many months. On this basis, we're going to get the trust of society, and that's very important. Because there is no trust in society, nor in the Supreme Council, nor in any politics. Dear colleagues, I'd like to warn you of another way: the escalation and the path to provoke further conflict. Lately, there are ideas I heard yesterday from important politicians, the federalization of the country, the clearing of the streets. Some bereavements with local authority are creating fronts. And unfortunately, the crime is beginning to work with government structures, with strong structures. It's unacceptable. And those who push this path, I want to emphasize, play with fire. And the way to the federalization of the country is to destroy the sovereign state. I want to emphasize once again, we must not move in any way in this direction. We must do the will of the people. I'm calling on each of you, to the deputies: we're about to raise the question of going back to the 2004 Constitution, and this is one way to solve today's crisis. I suggest that each of us think about what he is doing and what the consequences may be. We all have to go the right way together and we have to do this way. I'm talking to each of you: let's do this. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-04-m0.u5	Freedom Union, leader of Oleg Tuggnibok faction. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-04-m0.u6	Sergei Nigoyan, Mikhailo Zizniewski, Yuri Verbicki, Roman Senik, Bogdan Kalinjak And there are hundreds of people who are traumatized, who have their hands ripped off, who have lost their eyes. And another three dozen people who are missing. And hundreds of people sitting in prisons, in prisons, completely innocent, random passersby who were caught on the right and left, were detained and arrested. And there are hundreds and hundreds of crippled human fates. Ladies and gentlemen of the government who have disappeared so quickly, would you like to continue that list? Do you want to continue the fraternity and bloodshed on the streets of Kiev? I think it's time to stop all of this. And I think that each of you should realize that the responsibility lies with these deaths, the disability, the cut down fates of those who have solved this conflict, who have organized these provocations and oppositions, precisely those who are today blowing up the fire of civil war in the Ukrainian state. Those who are being pushed on the side of your Kremlin masters today, the Kremlin, who is now very interested in dismembering Ukraine to destroy the territorial integrity of our nation. And that's pretty obvious right now. The Kremlin became active, and the Kremlin began to create the fifth columns here in our country. And we need to understand that the prerequisite for preserving Ukraine's territorial integrity, for preserving Ukrainian national sovereignty, is not only the cosmetic changes that must be made in this room and done immediately, to return to the Fourth Year Constitution in order to somehow change the powers of the President, the Supreme Council and Parliament, to balance them. Decisions on the so-called decriminalization should be clearly adopted, and steps should be taken to address this social political crisis in the Ukrainian State. And everything must be done in order not to resolve civil strife, civil war. Because what is happening in the Midas today is not a conflict between the Ukrainians of various parts of our country, it is not the opposition of the East or the West, the Ukrainian or Russian-speaking, it is the opposition and protest of the people who have been led to despair, to this power, to this regime that cannot listen to the people who speak only the language of power, the language of the paloks, the language of the weapons that they are sending to the people. So society, in order to take real steps, can't afford just cosmetic changes, it can't be counted on just that the International Monetary Fund, the West or anyone else can help us financially, because it won't solve problems either, it just delays the inevitable deflation of the Ukrainian economy, which is completely ruined and looted. We need to make very systematic, real changes to the state and national body, and the basis for these changes should be decriminalization, disintegration and deputisation of the Ukrainian community, the Ukrainian society. Do you not understand that today the Kremlin is sleeping and seeing how to take advantage of the present unstable situation in Ukraine and dismember Ukraine, divide Ukraine? We are facing a possible loss of territorial integrity and perhaps even national sovereignty. That's why we need to stop, immediately stop all of those attempts to create the so-called "fifth column" that now wants to solve civil strife and civil war in Ukrainian society. And look what the fifth column is: in fact, the Ukrainian community today is facing this kind of hybrid in the form of recidivists, checkers, new capitalists, oligarchs. The ugly symbiosis of so much Russian blackness, Stalinal Bolshevism, and modern Ukrainian mafia structures. That is why, society, we must immediately realize that Parliament still has a chance to rehabilitate itself before the community and say its word, because the inaction of the Ukrainian Parliament as the highest legislative body of our nation will produce further blood on the streets. Surprisingly, stop, authorities, do not commit further genocide against your own people in the 21st century. We immediately adopt the issue of constitutional reform, the changes to the Constitution in 2004, we introduce legislation, amendments to the Decriminalization Act, and we cancel any conditions, the report by Henprocurator and the Minister of Internal Affairs on the investigation.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-04-m0.u7	Finish up. Finish!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-04-m0.u8	Report by the Attorney-General and the Minister of Internal Affairs on torture, murder, loss of life and murder, and the preparation of documents for the Hague Tribunal on the conviction of criminals. We are to ratify with you the status of the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court. — Rome, July 17, 1998. These are the first steps that we must take to save our nation. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-04-m0.u9	Thank you. The Fatherland faction. Who's speaking? National deputy Sergei Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-04-m0.u10	Dear colleagues, let us examine what the country is entering today, which has changed over the last 70 days since millions of people have left the street? Nothing's changed. Janukovic still wants to keep power at any cost, and for that he's willing to drown the country in blood. And the first sacrifices that today are in the state are sacrifices that are in the blood of Yanukovich, not just in the blood of Zacharychenk and his government. What does Maidan require for today? It doesn't matter what Mayan is — the one who brought the regionals or the millions of people who came out on the street. They require a few key things. First. The resignation of the corrupt government of Azarov has taken place. What did we get? Instead of Azarov, there are the same corrupters who have led the country to bankruptcy, who cannot pay for key sovereign debts and who have received property in Austria in Switzerland and anywhere in the world. Second requirement. Release the prisoners immediately. A requirement that began with Timoshenko. We now have hundreds of political prisoners who are now murdered, who are now allegedly released from house arrest and are again behind whom all the same articles, which have never been guaranteed by the so - called majority of their Amnesty Law, remain. The third that citizens demand today is an immediate change in the constitutional system. This is required by all: both the opposition and the majority. Instead, what are we offered? The creation of successive commissions, the conspiracy of this issue -- and in the end, the solution is nothing to change the real Constitution of Ukraine, which was illegally amended in 2010. What else do citizens require? First of all, the key question is to stop a bloodbathed fratricidal conflict. For those who frighten us of what it will be, open your eyes: it is already on the streets when today the people are resisting armed with the teeth of a top that uses criminal authority to intimidate people. What should we do next? The Fatherland faction and its allies are offering the only solution to this crisis. The first, and the main, is the return to the constitutional field of Ukraine, namely, the proclamation by the Supreme Council of Ukraine -- and this can only be done with you, neither the President nor the corrupt government, but only those deputies who sit in this room, who have at least one drop of conscience and responsibility for the future of the country -- is the declaration of a constitutional act that guarantees a return to the constitutional order of the country, which in fact the fourth year lives neither in the Constitution nor in human laws nor in the laws of God. The second is what we offer. It's not just an act of amnesty when they hide their heads in the sand and the killer and the executioners and those who are innocently murdered and tortured, and it's an amnesty without any warnings that will require a clear investigation. And there can be no amnesty for such persons -- those who killed, those who tortured. And to everyone else, the state should apologize. Because those people who have suffered today are actually further away from the question: why did Zacharychenko not answer for his actions today; why Kluvlev did not answer for his actions and why, in the end, those who pushed on the civil war, which is scary, continue to push on the civil war, are not responsible for every action they take. The second issue, which is equally important, is that Parliament should immediately begin to develop a clear economic strategy, because what has been going on for the last four years has been a simulation of reforms. The third thing Parliament should do is empower the new government to sign the Association Agreement with the European Union and the Free Trade Zone. Have they forgotten those hundreds of voices from the Party of Regions that claimed three months ago that we are going to the European Union, and we will sign this agreement. Do this, and that will be the way out of the situation today. And the last. I propose that after the speeches of the National Deputies take a break, assemble in factions and continue to resume meetings when the action plan is in place. And this is the only option that we can go on doing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-04-m0.u11	Thank you. The faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, directed by the faction Peter Simonenko Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-04-m0.u12	Dear citizens of Ukraine! By determining the position of our faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine for this fourth session, we came out of the next one. First of all, the new realities that require us to radically change our approach to the organization of the work of the Supreme Council and the list of issues that need to be taken on time and in the first place. First. Extremism and radicalism have taken over the mountain in Ukraine. The territorial divide is already real, and the threat of civil war is already at the threshold of Ukraine. The Fascist dictatorship is on the verge of Ukraine, and it is clear that those calls that have been made very often, that they are trying to move Ukraine to European values, have quickly turned into a nationalistic "Ugre" that we have in Ukraine. On Fridays, bloody provocations impose a different viewpoint on the people of Ukraine, for it is those who are not interested in peace, peace, and harmony in Ukraine and in these Friday - day bloody provocations that are causing anxiety, that are causing extremism, that are trying to drive radical action on the part of those who are going today, as if, under the slogans of fighting for the future of Ukraine. The blood, the hands, the disability, the death of people are all on the conscience of the so-called opposition and the party of power. It is you who have forbidden the Ukrainian people the peaceful way to decide Ukraine's future and to decide in a referendum on Ukraine's Euro-Integration or Customs Union choice. It is you who have forbidden the courts of the people of Ukraine to have their opinion, and in the struggle for the office of president you have thrown the Ukrainian people into the bloodbath today. You're the one who's killing him today. You're killing the future of Ukraine. The blood of the Ukrainian people is on your hands. Next. We need to understand that calls for the reintroduction of power by the oligarchs are attempts to place others in the same chairs instead of the same oligarchs, and to carry out the same policy, and we have enough examples to do that. All 22 years of independence in Ukraine have you done just what the Ukrainian people have called for a reintroduction of power. Recharges were made so that only their wealth increased and your wealth grew, and the Ukrainian people became beggars today and ran across Europe, seeking a job and a piece of bread. The Ukrainian people and the state must be protected from external influence today. It is you who have led to the abuse of Ukraine today. And already in Munich, it is said that the government in Ukraine can only be the one loved by the International Monetary Fund and the one to sign the Association Agreement with the European Union. Well, it's been a long time since we've seen that kind of insolence. And I would like to remind you once again, fellow citizens of Ukraine, that the Munich conspiracy in 1938 led to the dismemberment and dismemberment of Czechoslovakia and the opening of the way to the end of World War II. World War I is the result of the first world crisis. World War II is the result of the second world crisis. I would like to remind those who went to Munich for advice, remember that you were there practically giving up national interests and giving up the future of Ukraine, saying that you really need their help today, not relying on the Ukrainian people. You've led to the fact that already in Romania on January 25-26, you've solved aggressive policies that they have territorial claims to Ukraine, and they're ready when you're killing the Ukrainian people here, to claim that they're going to protect the Romanians in Ukraine by armed forces. Shame on you! You bastards are the political ones you're doing with the Ukrainian people right now. [[B in m in s a l in]] A mediocrity in your hands is a mechanism to replace one president with another president. It's a battle of clans, it's a bloody battle of clans. Majdan is also about Ukraine's final loss of independence today. That's why the Company, the Company itself today, is proposing to urgently undertake constitutional reform and give up the presidency. We must cancel this position and let you no longer fight the bloody methods for one clan to rule or another clan to rule. Next. We think that maybe there's only one compromise that the President's mandate is to accept the credentials and give the awards to the state. Another element of constitutional political reform, the Company sees as a process of federalization of Ukraine. We need to save Ukraine's future by protecting our people, our traditions, our future by deciding for ourselves what language to speak, what traditions to preserve, what respect and whatnot. As this applies to economic mechanisms of influence. I believe that today the question has been urgently raised as to the composition of the government. The Company's faction insists that this government should not solve the issue of bringing another president into power, it must be the government of professionals, those who have experience today and those who are excluded from the oligarchs, who today are willing to put their professionalism in place for the future people of Ukraine! Again and again, I urge the people's deputies to focus on practical actions and practical decisions, steps that will make it real.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-04-m0.u13	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-04-m0.u14	I'm proposing concrete steps, and the Company's faction has made the right decisions. I reiterate that today there is a real threat to civil war and the guilt of those who today talk more about democracy, those who bloodyly forbade the people of Ukraine to hold a referendum on the definition of the future fate of the people of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-04-m0.u15	Welcome to Vladimir Mikhailovich Litvin's words from the non-fractional deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-04-m0.u16	Dear Volodymyr Vasilovich, dear colleagues! Without exaggeration, it can be said that these days the fate of Ukraine will be decided, as at least this week, and everything will depend on the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And, thank God that she finally stopped the two-month silence, because it was such a strange way of working -- they kept quiet and contradicted the decisions, and then it turned out that those decisions weren't the same. And everything will depend on us now, on the mind and balance and the correctness of our actions. Obviously for this we need to understand that the winter of discontent, anger and resentment of people is not an act of a bunch of extremists, nationalists and radicals, it is the general mood of Ukrainian society! It's the general mood of people! And there should be no illusion, no illusion should be in order for us to make the decisions that Ukraine needs, not the political power of one country or another. And we don't need to betray, honourable colleagues, who are willing to do what is real and not to try to act in a way that will stop whom. Let's not stop. Ukraine doesn't last. We must not allow this winter of discontent to turn into a spring rebellion. The prospects are: On February 17 the students will return from their holidays. And you have to take that into account. We have two scenarios. The first scenario is to find a reasonable compromise in the interests of the state. And I would ask you not to view this call as weakness. We're doomed to compromise. We are obliged to compromise. But there is a problem -- people are radicalized, politicians are radicalized accordingly. The other one. We don't have any culture of dialogue. We're trying to make each other cry out and scare each other, and that's what we heard in the session room. You can talk about civil war as much as you want, you can warn each other, but you can't do anything -- the situation will only get worse. We have no experience of compromise and dialogue. We want to break down or compromise on our own terms. That's not gonna work. And the second scenario, which is scary for Ukraine, is confrontation, and it's really war until Ukraine's dismemberment. And I think today that the issue of the federalization of Ukraine is one of the scenarios for a violent solution to the conflict. Today, the question itself is unacceptable. Maybe we should talk about unitary decentralization, not the spread of Ukraine. And I'd like these politicians to keep their mouths shut, as a minimum, so that they don't once again act as provokers. It must be a country theme. And the country's theme should not only be politically speaking, but also economically speaking. The country lives by inertia. We're facing an economic collapse. And you all understand that very well. I think the trend with the bracelet is that of confirmation. We need a serious general discussion about the country, both economically and politically. It's a matter of government. We need to form such a government together, first of all, in order for it to be directly involved in the economy. Maybe it should be a coalition government, it should be a government of national harmony. You can have any word here, but it has to be essentially, by the way. And one more thing, and it's no less important. We need, your honor, to do everything we can to exclude the government from the future election campaign, let it do the country. And yet another complication, honourable colleagues, which we must consider and come out of this complication and act wisely. In fact, there are no legal mechanisms to solve the problems posed by society. There are no legal mechanisms today to make the decisions we are all talking about. And there is the threat that due diligence from a political principle will translate into legal decisions. And this is, by the way, this is proposed, and this is another way to deepen the conflict and fight. Because you understand very well that no one is going to seem that simple, and you have to take that into account. I mean the question of the Constitution. The obvious fact is that we need to put power in place. The obvious fact is that we have to have a restraint system and an opposite system. The obvious fact is that we need a social control mechanism for the operation of power. What are the options? There are options for adopting a constitutional act, but there are other options. Let us take this matter seriously, realizing that there is no time. There is also the possibility of adopting amendments to the law to force the Constitutional Court to annul its non-legal decision. We should have this decision close to the legal one. We should, seriously, invite non-politicians here, those who tell us what kind of decision we need to make. Otherwise, dear colleagues, we will rekindle the fires and be deeply opposed. And finally. I'm done. The role of the Supreme Council. It is a good thing that the Supreme Council broke the silence. At the same time, I ask and appeal to the Head of the Supreme Council to stop any discussion about the possible dissolution of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I can't see at all. The fact that the Supreme Council does not work then raises the question: There is no need to dissolve what does not exist. And one more thing. Dear colleagues, stop any search for materials on MPs in order to put them up.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-04-m0.u17	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-04-m0.u18	to ask questions about the termination of their powers. If necessary, let's adopt the law in the Supreme Council and put another obstacle in place to the Constitution. And I'm convinced that we need to be all together here and understand our responsibility. Again, despair, despair, and anger have entered Ukrainian life so much that this winter may not survive the country’s dissatisfaction. But we are obliged, I stress once again, to do everything we can to bring the country on.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-04-m0.u19	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we'll take 30 minutes to speak to the national MPs. Please enroll the national deputies for the performance. Ukrainian Company, National Deputy Babic.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-04-m0.u20	Please give my word to my colleague, Spiridon Kilinkarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-04-m0.u21	Please, the People's Deputy of Kilinkarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-04-m0.u22	Ladies and gentlemen of the people! [[B in m in s a l in]] The situation in the country is the result of the economic policy we have been pursuing for the past 20 years. Over the past 20 years, there have been major criminal and oligarchic clans that have ruled the government for 20 years. No criminal or oligarchic capital will ever allow the power to be strong. Because this capital wants to rule the government! Because this capital has never done business in this country! This capital was scraped out of the budget by an apricot shovel! That's what this whole business is all about! It is today that we are trying to diminish the role of this capital in the events that are trying, taking place in our country, trying to corrupt the Ukrainian people. What is happening today is the struggle for power. It is not just the struggle for power, it is the struggle for financial resources and the flow of the country. I want to say that in fact, the people who went out to Midan are opposed to the injustice that is today. And that's true. But the truth is that these people's desire to change the country is actually governed today by the false opposition that is making false slogans to date. And I want to tell you, gentlemen, that those people who are trying to use the people of Ukraine to some extent today for their useful purposes will sooner or later face the fact that these people are the kings that are in opposition today, will correct your crowns with the shovel that you are stealing money from the Ukrainian budget. I also want to tell you about your candidates. I think it is time for the opposition to decide with a single candidate for the presidency and to put this candidate to office as President of Vitaly Klick. But the President, not Ukraine, but the President of the Federation of Boxes, will then benefit Ukraine much more than in politics. I think the role of the opposition could be distributed today, it's your business how you do it. Now, with regard to the issues of further action. If we do not go through the full process of amending the Constitution today, if we do not hold a referendum and the people of Ukraine do not decide what the country should be, those oligarchic clans will always wish to reconsider once again and illegally abolish what will be unlawfully adopted in this Supreme Council. So if you don't know how to act, act by law. And we must go through the full process of amending the Constitution and moving to the parliamentary Republic, reducing the role of third countries in governance.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-04-m0.u23	The Vitalia Klitschka faction, the national deputy of Bilkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-04-m0.u24	Please pass the word Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-04-m0.u25	The national deputy Heratchenko is speaking.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-04-m0.u26	Dear colleagues, there has been a great deal of talk here today about the need for deputies to reintroduce the role of the subject in the decision - making process. And it doesn't really have to wait for the return to the Constitution in 2004, it takes a little bit of each of us to have a sense of self-esteem, and that's what I want to talk about. Because we talked a lot about the responsibility of the authorities for what is happening in the country today, but let us be silent about the responsibility of the Supreme Council itself. Dear colleagues from the Party of Regions and Communists, you know, the last two weeks we and our colleagues have been going to courts, raids, hospitals, and seeing as much distress as there was. It came after the laws you've passed, and unfortunately we haven't seen any of you there, which may not be right, because it would be right for you, Mr. Kaletnik. Mr. Kaletnik! heard your responsibility for your accent! These are the kind of people who are in hospitals today. And, you know, it's no surprise to anyone, Your Honor, because those who lie in those wards and hospitals are beaten by Birkut. They're saying that these people are actually lying there in peacetime, we just didn't know what Berkut and the militia were doing. Isn't that our responsibility? You know, your honorary colleagues from the Party of Regions and Communists today are starting appeals against those people who have been detained through these decisions by our joint decisions with you. And I think it would be appropriate for one of you to go to these appeals courts, see what they stressed, and apologize to the people for leaving the country and starting to correct it. And it started with the Supreme Council. Because in fact, you and I have this climate of mistrust and aggression to stop. I want to say that it's not normal that 150 journalists were beaten, demolished by "Berkut," and we still don't know the name of anyone who beat journalists, and there's no statement from the Supreme Council on this. This is not normal when women MPs are being beaten in the Supreme Council of Ukraine today when Lesju Orobec, when Masha Jonah was hit by MPs from the Party of Regions and we didn't even hear the support of women from the majority party, and that's justifiable. Please tell me, can such a parliament bring peace to the country? I want to say that very much today depends on the position of the speaker of the Supreme Council, who, in fact, needs to understand that he is the Head of Parliament, Mr. Ribak. And when you're approached by MPs as to what's unacceptable, when this atmosphere is created in Parliament, you might not be allowed to do that, it's insane that we're just starting to discuss these conflict issues in society today. So I want to ask you, my dear fellows, so that we don't throw our heads at authority, at someone else, and everyone is starting to think for themselves what you're voting on, what you're doing, what you're appreciating. We all appreciate each other's actions and started these changes, including the Constitution.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-04-m0.u27	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-04-m0.u28	Before it's time to change Parliament. Parliament should once again become a parliament where MPs should treat each other with respect and follow this procedure. And I also think it will be right if today's summary of the day becomes the first apology from Parliament to the Ukrainian people for what has been taught in the last month, it's going to be a wonderful, really, start to move on to the 2004 Constitution.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-04-m0.u29	Party of regions, National Deputy Mikola Rudzkowski. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-04-m0.u30	Vladimir Vasilovich, I am not a member of the Party of Regions. [[Applause]] So, respectable national MPs, respectable colleagues! Indeed, the situation facing the country today needs not only comments but also the actions of the deputies of the Supreme Council. I think we understand that the political ambitions of politicians who have a rating and are preparing for elections in 2015 will not allow us to make the important decisions that the country needs today, until we turn to the people and consult the people. I think that this week we need to adopt the Referendum Act, correct it, so that we can ensure fair will so that we can correct the composition of the Central Electoral Commission in order to ensure the full confidence of the whole of society in the results, and hold a referendum over the coming month with a few questions: Parliamentary or Presidential republics, proportional or majority elections, the removal of parliamentary immunity, the privatization of land, Ukraine moving to Europe or the Customs Union, and some other issues to speculate on these issues, and they are guided by the will of its people. This, first, will give us the opportunity to adopt a new text of the Constitution that will meet the expectations of the majority and remove all political speculation. After the adoption of the new text of the Constitution, if we decide on the formation of executive committees by local councils, we, we want it or not, we have to go to parliamentary elections and local councils, because we are expanding Parliament's mandate. People in the election didn't give us the authority to do that. I hold the position that we should elect the President in Parliament, not because I don't like the most rating candidates. I think that if we go to the President's elections in 2015 and we contrast East and West Ukraine again, we're going to break it down, we're going to rebuild the enemy situation in Ukraine. I want the deputies and the Supreme Council to build peace and harmony and unite the country with our decisions, not to build contradictions. Let's move in this direction and the politicians of the call.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-04-m0.u31	Thank you. The Fatherland faction, the People's Deputy of Knieżicky. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-04-m0.u32	Dear colleagues! We're always late. Once it was enough to remove Zacharychenk and punish the guilty, then to resign. Now we're talking as if our children aren't standing on the Maidan and not our child soldiers who are protecting here (and they're freezing) the Supreme Council. We have no right to do that. We are in a period of time that has survived Poland, Spain. They had the wisdom to forget the past. Yes, punish the guilty, but forget the past, in order to build a normal future together. We don't have another way out. We need to change the Constitutions by modeling European countries. We need to make a government based on this constitution, to appoint parliamentary and presidential elections. We need to release all the prisoners. Julia Timoshenko is to take part in these presidential elections, and she must be the person to give guarantees to those who want to build this country together. We have no choice but to think about those who are currently in prison. We have no other way out of thinking about half the country they're trying to separate from us right now. You don't understand what's going on in the street right now. You don't understand what the whole world is looking at us right now. I want to ask those diplomats who are sitting here. I believe that on this last day, the last few weeks, we've had enough of this wisdom to change the Constitution, declare elections, make a new government and release Timoshenko. I urge diplomats to convene an immediate major international conference on Ukraine's financial assistance, which is in a difficult financial crisis. I believe that all of us will make sure that those people who are being caught in the streets now, not the amnesty, wait for their innocence, but smile at all of us here together: and those who are sitting here in opposition, and those who are wise people who are sitting here most of the time. We're talking. It's your responsibility, it's ours. Let's stop and do this in the next few days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-04-m0.u33	Thank you. Freedom Union, national deputy Blavajki. Alexander Sich will be speaking, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-04-m0.u34	British political scientist Anthony Smith, Europe’s most famous researcher of nations, nationalism, made a distinction between nationalism, fascism, and Nazism. Nationalism is the protection of its nation. Fascism is the use of its own nation in the interests of the dominant calling. Nazism is racial superiority. In this, I have to agree with Peter Simonenko that Ukraine is threatened by the dictatorship of fascism as the dominant cry of the pre-Nigerian gang clan, which is trying to exploit the entire Ukrainian nation in its interests. And let the word "nation" mean whoever wants it, either in an ethnic or in a political sense. In this sense, Yuri Szerbak, a well-known Ukrainian writer, really deserves the Shevchenk Prize, because his Diology "The Time of Death" and "The Time of the Great Game" were actually presented for this award because in his book "The Time of Death: The Time of Death" in 2077 he predicted this time. The only thing that's happening is not in 2077, but in 2014, the gang is running the state. On top of that, the state seems to have signs of a Ukrainian state, as if it has a bit of a positive sign of a real Ukrainian ruler, a hetman, but in fact, the state is ruled by a gray prince. In fact, Yuri Sterback made a mistake because it's not a gray prince who's hiding in a dark person, but a black prince of the bandit regime in Ukraine, and this blackness scares us because today they take hostages, kidnap and torture those who want to fight this blackness, but tomorrow this blackness will come to us all and you, the distinguished members of the Party of the Region and the distinguished members of the Communist Party. And at the same time, I want to remind you of one very important philosophical sensation: "the people are primary and the authorities are secondary." The people choose authority to rule society and to do its will. If the authorities cease to do the will of the people and abuse his will, sooner or later he will overthrow such authority. And our task as advocates of the people is to help the people to achieve this peacefully, for the preservation of the social evil, for the preservation of the sovereign Ukrainian state and the bloodshed that the Ukrainian nation today is throwing at, the Ukrainian state of the Donetsk clan. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-04-m0.u35	The Fatherland faction, National Deputy Irina Lucenko. Please, Andrew Shevchenko will be speaking.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-04-m0.u36	Colleagues, I just wanted us to think together about how we could become the country's parliament again. Because I think it's obvious that if we don't find a political solution, we're all going to get swept away. I think we need to understand that the enormous responsibility for the deaths that have taken place and the tortures that are going on lies with the entire Ukrainian Parliament. Because we didn't find a common solution here. I also think that we understand very well that Parliament has not yet been able to find a solution, because it has been actively hampered from the outside. Because periodically there are people who think they are better than the national MPs, including the largest faction, who understand how to seek this political decision. If we don't change that, there's a disaster in the country. I may not be the oldest MP in this room, but before becoming a parliamentarian, I was a journalist for 12 years. I was one of ten journalists who spent the night of June 28, 1996 here in the press ’ bed. And I remember that when the Constitution was adopted, we journalists applauded the MPs because we saw each of the politicians, of the gray, uninteresting politicians, becoming a public man because we made decisions that mattered to the country. I also remember 1991 as a child. When 239 Communists for a moment forgot that they were Communists and felt statesmen, they voted for Ukraine’s state independence. It seems to me that now is one of those times when each of us can reenter history. Why did this not happen until then? Because there was too much grayness in the hall, too much fear and too little real people's deputies in Ukraine. I want us to remember how the last of this pseudo-amnistic pseudo-amnist bill was voted out, when the largest faction of the country of the Ukrainian Parliament came in here, without text, broken across the knee, without discussion, and they voted for not even knowing what it was, then putting their eyes down, to explain what it was. My friends, I think it looks more like the slaves on the galleys that were set up and said, "Go back!".. And everybody sees it's a mountain river, and it's a waterfall ahead, and it's washing everybody up there, and it's like slaves scratching, humping, humping, because there's someone next to this backpack who's barking like this. If you look personally at the MPs in the faction of the Party of Regions, is this really the job you want to do? Alexander Sergiyovich Efraemov, is this faction that you can really be proud of? Sergey Tihypco, when you received third place in the presidential election, did you think you would be covered up for such a vote? Vladimir Makeenko, who voted in favour of the State Independence Act, George Miroshnichenko, the President's representative in Parliament, with whom we have joined in the civil society bill, is this the Parliament that we can be proud of? Vladimir Vasilovich Ribak, is this the Supreme Council with which we can make history? So, my friends, I think we're in a dark room right now where everyone's afraid to take a step forward, what might give us a way out if you and I enlighten the way forward. The goal is obvious to the whole country, it's an honest presidential election early, and it's a change to the Constitution. That's what we need to come to. There are countries where people die for the right to pursue politics, and unfortunately that country is Ukraine. And I know that those who are now dying and risking their health are in favour of not even people from the Party of Regions who want to go out for a peaceful protest. If they lose the presidential election, they won't.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-04-m0.u37	I'm asking you to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-04-m0.u38	They'll come to someone with a dove, or they'll take care of some authority, so they won't be chased by aunts, so they won't be found in the woods under Kiev with their boars wrapped in their hands and feet. Those people who are currently standing on the Maidan stand for freedom and the right to pursue the politics of every Ukrainian. Let's respect them, go on a date. I dream that the Ukrainian Supreme Council will once again become a real Ukrainian Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-04-m0.u39	Thank you. Alexander Mirny will be speaking from the Freedom faction. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-04-m0.u40	Any attempt to fix the situation is probably starting with a mistake analysis. Let's try to analyze together what was the biggest mistake in society? The main mistake of society was that society believed that power represented the interests of most of society, that power could hear and that power could influence the situation. The main mistake of authority is that it has forgotten that things are more important than life if they don't sound paradoxically. Because any attempt to intimidate people leads to a feedback reaction. What did the authorities expect by killing people? That two or three bodies will appear and all of Midan will break up. Is that the result? The result is absolutely the opposite. Hundreds of depraved people have to sit in the holes, in the cracks. And the result is the exact opposite. The government does not understand that there have been qualitative changes in society, which has become the state of Ukraine, I stress, the state. That people in this country know what they're fighting for. People know how to fight, and people are ready to go to the end. And the chief envoy for the authority to stop. Those methods that worked in the 1990s, those methods that work in the Latin American republics, don't work in Ukraine. Because it's a highly educated nation. Because it is not a nation of slaves, it is a nation of free people. Because these people, these people, I emphasize, including in the East and in the South, respect themselves, respect the family, respect the people around them, know and know. And these people together, I emphasize, what has never been in our history, together are willing to defend their rights. Remember that any solution to the question will simply be to bring more and more severe punishment to those people who are not ready for any reason to meet people. We remember with you that there are no statutes of limitations for crime. And our task with you, our mission with you, is to make sure that no more drops of blood are shed in Ukraine, because this is the way to nowhere. And because it won't solve the issue of power, it won't solve the issue of those people who support it. Only dialogue, only concessions, only the ability to hear society will help the authorities and save faces, and save the country. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-04-m0.u41	Freedom Union, National MP Yuri Mikhalchisin.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-04-m0.u42	Dear Volodymyr Vasilovich, distinguished national deputies! Indeed, the fatal situation affecting Ukrainian independence forces us to be more honest and honest today than ever before. Indeed, today is the moment when false illusions, false rhetoric, pseudo compromises must be rejected, and fear and uncertainty must be rejected. It's time to call things your names. It may seem to someone that power is stronger than ever, strong and solid state vertical, thin as a Donnie terricon, strong as a barbed steel, hot as metal flowing out of the domain furnaces of "Austals," but really, it's not really true, society. Compared to a situation that has already taken place in European history, the painting by El Salvador Next is "The Foregleam of Civil War". The other name of this painting may not be appreciated by those in today’s government who see themselves as future foams and generals of Franco. This painting was called Safe Design with Soft Beans. This is what today's authority is like trying to hide its worthlessness, absolute corruption, total incompetence, and non-professionalism behind the metal shields of "Berkutu", behind the stakes of the inner armies, behind the bullets of the special-purpose mercenaries. Indeed, when we mention Spain, we need to keep in mind the lessons of the European tragedy, which is sadly so close to Ukraine. A hardworking, peaceful, creative people are divided, not by the boundaries of regions, not by language, not by the boundaries of economic and social realities, but by a brutally corrupt, total-sale, anti-national government. I understand that in this room, when calls for totalitarian condemnation are being made, everyone wants to condemn totalitarianism in a foreign way. At the same time, they want to measure themselves to the same degree as Roman Emperor Nero, so French or gymnast of Soviet dictator Stalin. We need to understand that we are living at a time when the Ukrainian people will not allow themselves to be resuscitated by the dark past. We don't need a new Barry or a new Himmler. We don't need the new Kaganovichs or the new Ribbenttroopers with the Molotovs to share Ukraine. We need to restore the spirit of Ukrainian heroes: the spirit of the Iron and the Gont, the spirit of the Zaporozhye Cossack, the spirit of the Sichi shooting, the spirit of the heroes of the past who live in today. And these heroes now live and stand on the front line on Gruszewski Street. We thank them for what they do. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-04-m0.u43	The Fatherland faction, the national MP, Mikola Catherinechuk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-04-m0.u44	Ladies and gentlemen, I want you to take my words very seriously. You're all smart people, everyone has a past, and I'm sure you're thinking about a future. I'll start with what I'd like to offer you to become now and a minute of silence to secure the memory of the heroes of Gruszewski, please. [[A Minute of Silence]] Thank you. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'd like to remind you that now we have six people killed, six people killed, families, young guys who probably have a future. And today I don't want to read you morals and call you to your consciousness or conscience. I want you to understand one thing: today is our task with you, and there is every possibility that there will be no more victims. Vladimir Vasilovich, I suggest you make a decision today so that we don't close the session until we make a decision under the Constitution. If necessary, changes to the Constitutional Court Act, but the Constitutional Court has to correct its error, and we have to go back to the Constitution in 2004. Next. If we are serious about resolving this conflict, then the President's Administration, together with the President, if they produce their proposals, must now put off the tension of the resistance due to changes in the Cabinet of Ministers. The Minister of Defense must be against the opposition, it will never give anyone a chance to think that there might be some military opposition. The hottest place will be at the negotiating table where it should be. That is why this question must also be resolved today, Vladimir Vasilovich, in order for us to be able to make a constructive solution in a peaceful way. And I'm sure there are enough healthy people here, enough responsible people who can rise above their fears, stand up over their infidelity, those questions that separated us, and resolve the issue today. Thank you for your attention. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-04-m0.u45	Thank you. Two minutes, Anatoly Kirilovich, and we'll be done.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-04-m0.u46	Dear compatriots, distinguished national MPs, the scale of social and political opposition, socio-economic problems have no parallels, virtually, over the past 23 years of our state's independence. And it is vital that our conversation conclude with specific basic principles that should unite us. First. Political opposition is the failure of the State to defend its national, economic and political interests, create conditions for increasing dependence on external economic conditions and transform Ukraine into an area governed by the Western or Eastern directions, regardless of external scenarios. It's different. Action, regardless of the parties that pose threats to territorial integrity, force resistance is clearly an anti-State action. The third principle. The only way out of this crisis is through a peaceful legal path. On the basis of, including, a moratorium from all sides on violent opposition. Of course, the Constitution needs to be improved, particularly in the direction of control of society over state authority, delegation of powers to communities, creation of conditions for development of Ukraine as a democratic, competitive state. This is the Supreme Law of the State, and you can never change the Constitution under the current personal or political context. Everything should be hard in the legal field, including international standards. And to conclude, the economy. This is a matter that is outside Parliament's attention and is creating very serious risks of exacerbating the socio-economic systemic crisis, and we need to work together to avoid it. Parliament must work and pay its debts to the Ukrainian people on an annual basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-04-m0.u47	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we've discussed the political situation, so there's a proposal, there's a board of faction leaders, there's going to be some working group from all the factions that, the working group, can generalize the proposals and initiatives that have been made in the course of our meeting, and maybe prepare a statement by the Supreme Council of Ukraine regarding the situation that has arisen in the country and tomorrow could be considered and accepted in a situation, a statement by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Next, a few announcements. In accordance with article 60 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, and according to the minutes of the parliamentary faction meeting of the "Fatherskin" of January 16th, it is reported that the National Deputy of Ukraine Zabzaluk Roman Omelanovic has been expelled from the House of Deputies of Fathers. Next. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy, the Rules, according to a personal statement, report the entry of the Ukrainian People's Deputy Valuation of Leonid Mikolaiovich into the MP's "Fatherhood". [[Applause]] Announcement. According to the application and in accordance with part three of article 60 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, it is reported that the National Deputy of Ukraine, Mr. Grecenka Anatolia Stepanović, has resigned from the House of Deputies. Next. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People’s Deputy, according to a personal statement, it is reported that the National Deputy of Ukraine, Mikli Petrovich, has entered the Party of the Regions. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, there has been a very important question in the speeches of the national MPs about constitutional reform, but there are no agreed materials to be considered at this time in the Supreme Council. At the beginning of the session, we need to consider the order of the day session and make a decision, the calendar of the session, and the questions that have raised the MPs, we need to consider. Yesterday at the Conciliation Council, the leaders of the MPs raised the question that today the faction leaders would be able to take a stand and take a break in order to draft laws that might be passed at the meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Different thoughts. Someone's offering a 30-minute break, talking again and not getting anything ready, someone by night, someone by day, says, let's work in the hall, someone says, let's take a break today, work on the paperwork, and tomorrow at 10 o'clock we'll continue. So I want to know the supply of factions and non-fractionals. So I'm asking for a minute from the factions and the MPs. Please, your suggestions so you can put it to a vote and work. Why do I want to do this? Because they're bringing statements here, they say, let's call it a break, I'm going out to the session room, and the deputies say, "You don't let us work, you invite faction leaders, and you don't make any decisions." So let's define in the session room. I'm asking you, who's with the strike faction? Please, People's Deputy Pinzenik, your offer, your factions.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-04-m0.u48	Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! We have no right today to address any issues other than those that allow us to address a very serious crisis in Ukraine. We can't even split up. We cannot close our eyes that are extremely serious problems that need solutions, not conversations, and not commissions. So our proposal is that today, not working groups are formed, but decisions are prepared. The solution is, in fact, even if they are not registered. So the position of our political force strike: faction leaders gather, take a concerted position on the decisions to be taken. And first of all, we all understand that we're all hostages. The regions, like the opposition forces, are hostages of the so-called constitutional change. Our first priority is to go back to the Constitution, which was changed through the Pencil, through the knee. So the proposal is to announce the meeting now.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-04-m0.u49	Let me continue.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-04-m0.u50	For an hour to gather here to make the country's decisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-04-m0.u51	What time is it?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-04-m0.u52	At four o'clock.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-04-m0.u53	At 4 p.m., you're making an offer. Please, Freedom, then Fatherland. Oleg Tuggnibok, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-04-m0.u54	Oleg Tuggnibok, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Mr. Head! Yesterday at the Conciliation Council, you accused the opposition of going to your office and having some culinary negotiations, and there's no result. I understand you'd have to justify yourself in front of the community before your faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-04-m0.u55	Don't fool the people! That's what MPs say, not me.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-04-m0.u56	Let me finish and don't interrupt me! Don't interrupt me!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-04-m0.u57	Don't fool the people! This is a requirement of deputies! Stop talking and blame someone!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-04-m0.u58	So I suggest that there be no such charges against the opposition, so let's set up a negotiating table in the Presidium and in public with the press, with the deputies sitting in the Hall, we'll talk. So that you don't tell them later by justifying yourself before your faction. [[Applause]] That the authorities don't want to go into concessions, that the authorities don't understand what a negotiation is, that you don't understand that you're in power, and that you're primarily responsible for the state of affairs in the state, and you have to be the first to be interested in the situation being resolved.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-04-m0.u59	I'm telling the Ukrainian National Deputies that you're raising questions, but the draft laws in the Supreme Council are neither registered nor registered. And that's enough talking and lying to people. I'm telling you again. And the MPs today, the demands of the deputies. Enough to meet the faction leaders in the Cabinet of the Supreme Council and not solve the issue. I agree with the deputies. Please, the "Fatherland" union of the Turkinov.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-04-m0.u60	Dear colleagues, the people of Ukraine are waiting for the Supreme Council not to speak loudly, not to let a couple out, the people of Ukraine are waiting for the Supreme Council to restore the constitutional system. This is a major task that can stop the escalation of violence in Ukraine and lead Ukraine out of the crisis in a peaceful way. That's why. Vladimir Vasilovich, I'm sorry, are you listening to the offer, or will we talk to you later? That is why we believe that, apart from the decision of the first vote concerning the Constitutional Reform Act, other issues cannot be addressed by the Supreme Council. We've introduced this document. He now registers with Parliament. We ask that the faction leaders discuss it seriously, give it to the deputies, and go to the voting room as we please. This will be the way to solve the terrible and dangerous crisis in the country. So we think when it's possible to talk by four o'clock.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-04-m0.u61	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-04-m0.u62	When it's possible to do that by four o'clock, let's take a break until four o'clock. There's no way to do that by four o'clock, so I'm gonna take a break until tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-04-m0.u63	Thank you. It's a normal offer. It's a normal offer. So I want the Hall to decide that we don't blame each other. Party of regions, please, leader of the Alexander Sergiyovich Efraemov faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-04-m0.u64	Thank you, Vladimir Vasilovich. We need a negotiated solution. A decision that all faction leaders would sign. It would be logical, from my point of view, for Parliament to work during this period, and for us to consider agreed bills in the hall. But if this is not supported by the opposition, perhaps it would be logical to support Turkinov’s point of view. If we're ready to work at 4:00, you'll gather the hall. If not, I'll be off by tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-04-m0.u65	The faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, your offer. Any suggestions? None. Thank you for the non-factionals, Oleg Lazko. One minute, please. Proposal for a constitutional reform session to be held and considered.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-04-m0.u66	Oleg Lazko. Of course, parliament cannot break up and stop working when blood is shed in Ukraine. So if Parliament doesn't say its word, speak the streets again. I believe that we should make decisions that will help us resolve the deep crisis that power has caused. What does it take? The 2004 Act of Return to the Constitution. This document has, under it, the signatures of more than 226 national deputies. Volodymyr Vasilovich, let's put him in the hall and vote. Next. We have registered draft Decree 4076-1, on the responsibility of the Constitutional Court judges, whose decisions have led to a deep constitutional crisis in Ukraine, on the release of judges appointed by the Supreme Council. Next. Why there is still no commission to investigate the kidnapping and murder of antigovernment protest activists. People continue to kidnap. These are the questions that the Supreme Council has to answer without delay.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-04-m0.u67	Ladies and gentlemen, we have agreed that we are one of the main issues. The question that Oleg Valeriovich raised is the second. But there is one major issue that needs to be considered and brought to the attention of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I listened to the proposal, and let's make a decision, announce the break by 4:00, and then at 4:00, we'll get together and take a look at it. Do you have a deal? Do you have a deal? The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. There will be an evening meeting of the Supreme Council at 16 p.m. Faction leaders, non-faction representatives, please come in so that we can work and reconcile all the issues that are today.
