ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-06-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited guests of the Supreme Council. People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:11:13]] There were 400 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday we discussed the draft of the calendar plan for the fourth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine with proposals from the Regulatory Committee. We didn't make the decision yesterday, but Parliament has to adopt the calendar of its work for the fourth session, and confirm the order of the day of the fourth session. Therefore, there is a proposal to prepare for the vote. I'll put it to a vote. We discussed it yesterday! Draft Regulation (Registration No. 3565) on the Calendar Plan. [[B in m in s a l in]] Ladies and gentlemen, I ask that you pay attention, listen, prepare for the vote and vote. The calendar plan for the work of the Supreme Council must be approved. I am betting on the draft Resolution (Registration No. 3565) on the calendar plan for the fourth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the seventh call for adoption as a basis and as a whole with the Committee's proposal. People's deputies, please. With suggestions from the committee that the National MP Matthews gave yesterday. People's deputies, please vote. Please vote. [[10:13:42]] For 235 Against 8, held – 2, not voted – 145. Decision taken. The factions, please. Region Party - 185, Fatherland - 0, Vitalia Klicka - 0, Freedom union - 0, Company - 32, non-fractional - 18. Ladies and gentlemen, we need to discuss, discuss and decide on the Order of the Fourth Session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the Seventh Assembly. Is there a need to discuss? [[B in m in s a l in]] Vote? [[B in m in s a l in]] Some say we talk, others say we vote. I'm asking for your attention! The deputies propose to vote for the agenda of the fourth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. There's nothing to discuss. All right. Listen! Dear National MPs, all questions registered on February 6th of this year are included in the agenda. I say again, we vote for them. All questions: Appendix 1, Appendix 2, Chapter I and Chapter III. We're voting in full. Therefore, according to part of the first article 21 and part 22 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I am introducing a draft decree (register No. 4080) on the order of the day of the fourth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the seventh call. I'm betting on voting on the basis and in general. People's deputies, please. [[B in m in s a l in]] Taking into account Appendices 1 and 2. People's deputies, please vote. I said. [[10:16:52]] For 237 Against - 1, held - 1, not voted - 162. Decision taken. The factions. Region Party - 186, Fatherland - 0, Hit Vitalia Klicka - 0, Freedom - 0, Company - 31, non-fractional - 20. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to inform you. Today, many people expect the Supreme Council of Ukraine to consider the issue of constitutional reform. I want to report to the National Deputies that there is no such law in the Supreme Council for a moment.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-06-m0.u2	No "no" or "no" or "no" or "no" or "no" or "no" or "no" law under constitutional reform. And people are waiting, people are lying, we have no right, national MPs. So there's an offer. Create a temporary special commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to prepare and agree on a bill to amend the Constitution of Ukraine (to return to the parliamentary-presidential form of government). Those negotiations. [[B in m in s a l in]] Let's talk. Those negotiations that we had for a few days in the Cabinet of the Supreme Council, they didn't work. We need today, there are proposals for changes to the Constitution in the Communist Party of Ukraine, there are various proposals in opposition factions, there are proposals in the Party of Regions. Therefore, we need to create a temporary commission of representatives of all the political forces that are in Parliament. Join the committee of experts, representatives of the President of Ukraine, because he will have to sign this law. In the short term, prepare this bill and consider it in the session room and make a decision. There is no other way for today. So I'm asking you, there's a proposal for a reduced procedure on this issue to discuss and make a decision. I beg your pardon for a reduced procedure. Anyone who supports it, please vote. [[10:20:43]] For 180. The question is being considered. Let's take a look at the question, and I'll call it a break. [[B in m in s a l in]] People's deputies please sign up for factions. Please sign up. Is it lighted up? The faction of the Party of the Regions, National Deputy Valérie Pisarenko. Please, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-06-m0.u3	Dear colleagues, Your Honor, I would like to point out once again that the relevant draft of the decree is the work of the Conciliation Council in the speaker's office, with the participation of all the faction leaders as well as relevant experts. We have decided that the chairmanship of this commission will go to the representative of the opposition forces of Knjazevik Ruslan Petrovich. What will this commission allow us to do? It will allow us not to make the mistakes that were made in 2014 when changes to the Constitution were made in breach of the procedure. Today, there is the only right path -- the constitutional procedure, which is enshrined in chapter XIII of the Constitution of Ukraine, which will allow Parliament and resolve the social and political crisis that exists, and make changes to the Constitution, which will not only be accepted by society and the world community, but I would like to remind you that almost all the representatives who participate today from the West, the East, have already pointed out that it is impossible to resolve the crisis by re-violation of the Constitution. So we insist that changes to the Constitution should only be adopted in a constitutional way. The constitutional procedure provides for the drafting of the text of the Constitution, referring it to the Constitutional Court for its conclusion. Following this approval of 226 votes in the first reading session and at the next 300 votes in favour of the Constitution and its signing by the President. This is the only way we can solve the challenge that society is facing us today and that is expected of the Ukrainian Parliament. Therefore, we ask all our colleagues, regardless of the political orientation and objectives with which they have come to this Parliament, to support the very legislative procedure that will not violate the conditions provided for in the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-06-m0.u4	Freedom Union, who's speaking? Oleg Tuggnibok, faction manager, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-06-m0.u5	Thank you. Oleg Tuggnibok, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Mr. Head, I am for audiences and audiences, and for journalists, I would like to make it clear why the opposition has not registered any bill on constitutional reform. It's very simple. There is no guarantee from the majority that she will vote in favour of this or another bill. And since our Rules do not provide for several times during one session to put questions to the vote, there is no point in putting any questions here in the room in order to get a negative vote. Because in any negative vote once, the next time we're going to be able to get back to that question, we're only going to be able to get back in September. And constitutional reform is not just about opposition, it's about the whole Parliament. And there must be consensus here, and there must be guarantees from most that it will give an appropriate number of votes. Maybe 226 — according to some bills or maybe 300 — according to others. What do you have to do now to relieve the tension in Ukrainian society and to eliminate the social and political crisis that is very difficult in Ukraine? The crisis already involved in the Kremlin and Moscow is very dangerous because it threatens the loss of territorial integrity. Terminovo today-to-morrow: constitutional reform -- once; secondly -- the Attorney General here to report on how criminal cases are going and whether they are discovered about the killings of peaceful protesters, about the kidnapping of people in Ukraine, about the torture of peaceful protesters, about the facts of theft, the burning of cars, the destruction of property of ordinary Ukrainian citizens. And finally, the third issue to be resolved immediately is the adoption of changes and additions to the Decriminalization Act, which is, in fact, the law on the rehabilitation of protest participants without any conditions. Then the problem in society is possible.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-06-m0.u6	The faction of the Ukrainian Company, National Deputy Adam Martinyuk. Turn on the microphone. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-06-m0.u7	Thank you, Martinyuk, the faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, society has seen the need for changes in the Constitution, and serious changes. You know that the Constitutional Assembly is working, and a number of legislators have already taken the initiative. And most importantly, what matters most is that in society, practically, there has been a consensus that changes to the Constitution need to be made in accordance with chapter 13 of the current Constitution, that is, through the Supreme Council. The second thing I would like to pay attention to is that I would like to be heard by the electorate. Unlike the vast majority of those present in the session room, I was an active participant in the change in the Constitution in 2004, and I would like to remind those who forgot about it, who were active opponents, who were out of the skin, who were going to the ceilings in the session room today in the first lava of returning to the Constitution in 2004. Once again, the first ones were "Fatherland," "Our Ukraine," "Self-Defense," and so on. Today they sing another song. Third. You know, I've already told you, a number of legislators have made their proposals, including a faction of Communists, with the fundamental proposals for changes to the Constitution, which can be read in the newspaper Voice of Ukraine on Saturday of this month. And the last. There is no doubt that if we are to make changes in a constitutional way, the creation of such a special commission is necessary to reconcile all points. That is why we support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-06-m0.u8	Thank you. The Vitalia Klitschka faction, Irina Heratschenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-06-m0.u9	Dear voters, dear colleagues! When you want to talk about the process, create a 150th commission in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. There are already 50 such commissions here, and unfortunately the CPD is going to be zero. None of them did anything good. So we are definitely against this scenario again, not written by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, but by the Bank to talk about this process. We demand that Parliament finally become the subject of decision making. Because it's a shame when the President's advisor speaks frankly about the President coming back from Sochi and making decisions. So far we're not the branch of the State of Russia or another Federation of the Russian Federation. That is why we need to make the following decisions here today. First, the adoption of the law on the complete amnesty of political prisoners, without all kinds of comrades, on that condition. Because people today sit in prisons for no reason, and more than that, the courts are deliberately transferred for a few days, and the case is not considered. The other one. If we have an incompetent Constitutional Court today and we've chosen one here, we need to correct their decisions and review the Constitutional Court's ruling ourselves. At the same time, they gave him a new application so that they could correct their own decision. The Constitutional Court had no right to take over our powers with you and decide what it had the right to decide, either by the people in the referendum or by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. But even through a referendum, only through the Supreme Council can changes be made to the Constitution. Enough of you dear comrades from the Party of Regions and Communist satellites to feed the dictator! The people of Ukraine voted for the President, not Khan, not dictator, not emperor. Let's give the President his presidential rights back, and Parliament will become the center of decision-making and of what the people voted for. And you can't drag anything away, you don't need any committees. Today, we are back in the 2004 Constitution. That's why they'll tell us.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-06-m0.u10	Did the factions all come out? Who will act? Please, the Fatherland faction. Arsenius Yatzenuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-06-m0.u11	Mr. Head, several thousand people are now on their way to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, demanding that most of them accept the new Ukrainian Constitution, which eliminates the dictatorial powers of Viktor Yanukovic. We have prepared a draft of a new Constitution that clearly meets the requirements of the Ukrainian people and that meets the criteria set by the Venice Commission. According to our Constitution, which is expected to be adopted by all Ukrainians, the President of Ukraine is depriving himself of dictatorial and imperial powers, the Ukrainian Parliament appoints the government, the Attorney-General, the head of the Security Service, all members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and acts on behalf of the people of Ukraine as the only legislative body.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-06-m0.u12	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-06-m0.u13	Any attempt to delay this process by creating a variety of commissions and working groups will only lead to an escalation of the conflict. We're talking to you and Viktor Yanukovic. You can't go trading with your country and your people! Nothing will be given in Sochi except for the position of governor of Malorósia. That is why our position remains unchanged. The draft Constitution is ready. The country needs to move to the parliamentary republic. The country is ready for this decision, not just the Party of Regions and Viktor Janukovic. Mr. Head, we are putting to the vote the draft Constitution and we are taking not only the first but a historic step towards the restoration of justice and the rule of law in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-06-m0.u14	Thank you. Please, non-fractional. Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-06-m0.u15	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear fellow MPs, you are now trying to push through the 235 votes you need. I want to warn you that you're making a strategic mistake. In this room, decisions are required to calm society in order to unite the country. Because if you think you're going to push the decision you need today, and you're going to solve the problem of opposition in Ukraine, you're not going to solve it! On the contrary, you only deepen it. Today it is not necessary to speak forcelessly; today it is necessary to make arrangements for the sake of society, for the purpose of uniting the country. What you're doing in this room right now is a demonstration of strength. You show your strength in the hall today, tomorrow the street will show you its power, and we will once again have a deep opposition in Ukraine. I'm addressing the MPs from the Party of Regions and Communists. If you really want peace, if you want to end the war, let us work together for the entire Ukrainian people. If you want to stretch your strength, you can't make it, I guarantee it. And pass it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-06-m0.u16	Thank you. All those who wanted to do so made themselves known. Everybody here? And now I want to let you know. Dear National Deputies! I want to report. He was speaking from the Party of Regions. Sit down. I want to report to you. Ladies and gentlemen, I report to you, members of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, to the people who are going to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, to report to the people who are standing here at the meetings at the Supreme Council of Ukraine: for the moment a bill amending the Constitution of Ukraine on the return to the parliamentary and presidential form of government in the Supreme Council of Ukraine is not and is not registered. And when there's a motion to put it to a vote, there's nothing to be done. So I've shown you what it is for the moment. As for the interim commission. All the deputies made proposals. We listened to them. The faction leaders are asking me to break the Rules and not put a vote on the establishment of such a commission right now, so I'm going to break for 30 minutes. We're going to identify with faction leaders and we're going to continue our session in 30 minutes. And I'm asking the faction leaders to come into the office of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-06-m0.u17	Ladies and gentlemen, I request your attention. At the meeting in the Cabinet of the Supreme Council, we discussed the issue of a possible consideration of changes to the Constitution of Ukraine. The first question that we have considered is the establishment of a temporary special commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to return to the parliamentary-presidential form of government. That's a question we've discussed with you. And we've approached the decision-making process, the voting process. But faction leaders all agreed not to vote or to form such a temporary commission because. Well, not all of them, I'll tell you. Because the opposition -- 3 factions -- does not give their representatives to this temporary commission, and factions' leaders insist that we ourselves are able to prepare (a few days) a harmonized version of the changes to the Constitution along with the deputies, along with the experts. And all of this will be done on the Conciliation Board of Heads of All factions. The following week, according to the Calendar Plan, is the work of the National Deputies in factions and committees. There are a lot of issues that need to be carefully considered in the committees, and also in the committees, there is a law that will be worked out in the near future -- tomorrow, the day after tomorrow and Saturday, Sunday. So we have this possibility that we will have to make a decision (on Sunday, maybe it'll be Tuesday, maybe it'll be Wednesday, I don't know) on the readiness of this bill, agreed on by the bill, representatives of all factions, to consider at the next session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[B in m in s a l in]] At the next meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. (It's like I read to you? Yeah. I don't know. I don't know. The work that will be done next week will also be possible to consider the need for an extraordinary plenary meeting. This is the offer of leaders of all factions. So this morning's meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I declare closed. There will be no evening session. The faction leaders will meet me in my office right now and we'll start working on the Law on Amendments to the Constitution of Ukraine. There will be no sitting until tomorrow, there will be no sitting until we consider the draft and adopt the Law on Amendments to the Constitution. And the deputies all work here in Kiev on committees and factions, because the session can be convened at any time next week. Thank you. Good for you.
