ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national MPs! Please take your seats, get ready for registration. And I ask the members of the secretariat to make an announcement for those national deputies who do not remember what time it takes to come to the session room so that everyone can come to the session hall immediately. Today, we have so many questions that we need to make responsible balanced decisions, respected colleagues. Please turn on the "Council" system and register the national MPs. [[10:08:10]] There were 318 national deputies registered in the hall. The Supreme Council will begin its morning session. Dear colleagues, we have enough and responsible agenda with you, but we will now have to go back to the question from which the Supreme Council made its decision on Tuesday. I, by the way, have traditionally informed you that today's birthday is celebrated by the national deputy of Ribakov Igor Aleksandrovich. Please. And as for the question raised by the first, honourable colleagues. This is a draft of the Tax and Customs Control Act in the Free Economic Zone of Crimea and on the specificities of economic activity in the temporarily occupied territory of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, the Supreme Council has received a statement from the Ukrainian National Deputies informing them that there was a violation during the vote, particularly not a personal vote. The MPs wrote the corresponding statements and according to. Dear colleagues! [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, colleagues, please calm down. This is the first time. I'm asking you not to cry, please, colleagues, once again, I've had a conversation with Kabmin today, and the law has recently made changes that have not been agreed with Kabmin at all. So let's do it right. Please turn on the microphone of the national deputy Jeremeyev.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m0.u2	Dear Head! Dear National Deputies! On Tuesday, when the vote took place, part of the national deputies for the national deputies voted during this law and there are corresponding statements. The law was also included in the final moment in the lottery rule. What lotteries have to do with the law? I ask that the law be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m0.u3	Dear colleagues! In accordance with article 47 and article 48, part 4, of the Rules, I demand that the national deputies re-vote the Law (register No. 4032a). [[B in m in s a l in]] I ask you, Your Honor, to determine whether this law should be confirmed by a vote. Please vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] [[10:11:30.]] For-160. The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues! I ask you to work in accordance with the Rules and Constitution of Ukraine, dot. [[B in m in s a l in]] I propose that this law not be lost – attention! – support the hall of this law for re-reading. [[B in m in s a l in]] I want to say again that the law doesn't go away I ask you to confirm by voting and to send this law back to second reading. Please, dear fellows,
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m0.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, please vote. [[10:12:18]] For 259. Decision taken. Thank you. Thank you. Dear colleagues. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, once again, you are demanding to abide by the Rules. There's a call from the deputies, we can't get around it. Period! There will be a law prepared for the second reading today; we will put it to the vote today. The voices are for his acceptance? Yes. Please prepare him. But once again, I say, agree with the Cabinet of Ministers those positions that were involved, including lotteries that have no bearing on the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. Period. Dear colleagues, according to two factions. [[B in m in s a l in]] It's consistent with two factions. [[B in m in s a l in]] Take it easy! The Fatherland factions and the Freedom factions, they're asking to take a break or in case. only statements. Please give the floor to the leader of the "Fatherland" faction Sergei Vladislavovich Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m0.u5	Dear colleagues, I would like to contact you in connection with the schedule offered. I would like to inform you that the heads of the MP factions did not meet to agree on the order of the day. So, strangely enough, the bill on open ballot elections, which won the largest number of votes, 202, disappeared. Instead, there are other bills that have received fewer votes, including my own. So the first requirement is to put in as an alternative bill that has the largest number of votes and that has every chance of passing in the room. Secondly, again we don't see in this draft law that is proposed, a project that deals with illustration or clearance of power. This is the 22nd project, we're not actually going to get to it. And that is why our demand, like the requirement of the public, is that there be no speculation that the factions vote and that they don't vote. I think that I, like dozens of our colleagues, have received text messages, calls to support that this bill be included in the agenda, which provides for the clearance of power from those who actually compromised themselves. We have a strange situation, liberated cities in the East today in the mayors' seats and city council members sit down with the same separatists who were being chased out by the people who supported the terrorists, and again these people will be sitting in their seats. That's why it's a request: to make it a priority right after the Elections Act, but in an editorial that's got the largest number of votes, other authors might insist on it the same way, the Law on the Cleanse of Power. Third. After yesterday's meeting with the delegation representing the representatives of the Bundestag of Germany, I would like to inform you that today a critical situation has arisen with the ratification of the Association Agreement with the European Union. At the end of September, a number of European parliaments ratified this agreement. Unlike the parliaments of Moldova and Georgia, our Parliament has so far not even included this issue as a key issue. That is why we continue to insist on the ratification of the agreement and the urgent introduction of the matter into the session room. In addition, for today's agenda, we are calling for a de facto immediate consideration of issues related to government proposals, namely: this is a force majeure in the ATO area, this is a question that concerns the activities of our enterprises in a temporarily occupied territory or territory controlled by terrorists, this is a question that relates to the economic activity of our enterprises. And the last question is the election of Mayor Kharkiv. After the assignment.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m0.u6	Allow me to finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m0.u7	After assigning honors to those citizens who actually authorized the deployment of troops into the territory of Ukraine, I mean the so-called deputies of the Russian State Word. It is a shame, and it should be a political responsibility for deputies who sow blood, discord, and death in the territory of the sovereign Ukraine. So we ask -- there are two bills from our colleagues -- to put the same question to the vote. Thank you very much. So: the illustration, the Law on Open List Elections, and then the question that remains in the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m0.u8	Please, half a minute, Oleg Tuggnibok. A minute ago, Oleg Dragnibok, he also signed under a break.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m0.u9	Oleg Tuggnibok, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Mr. Head, my fellow countrymen! To avoid repeating myself, I just want to emphasize. Today, three of the most important subjects. This is primarily to draft a bill on illustration, including 4359a. I'm wondering why it doesn't go as an alternative to 4429a, as previously said. The other one. This is all the legislation that applies to the ATO and the Donbasa wars, and I would like to propose to vote them without discussion and to vote positively. And the third theme is the Election Act. Operationally, even by lunchtime, there is a suggestion to vote them all quickly. Well, last night, freedom deputies, especially Leon's. Separatist Clinchayev was detained. To find out through the Ministry of Internal Affairs, it may be possible to ask Parliament whether it has been released at times because it has been handed over to law enforcement authorities. And the request, Mr. Head, is on the street, because many people are present. On the street. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m0.u10	Dear colleagues! First, with regard to the proposal of the national deputy Soboljev to include both the reform of the current electoral system and the return to the proportional system (the laws are related), you remember that the law that obtained the most votes during the previous vote should be incorporated. From what I understand, Sergey Vladislavovich, this is the number of Law 4222a. Is that what I'm saying? When national MPs don't deny it, I think we can also try to put it into the agenda. No objections? There's no objection. Regarding the proposal of the Book of Illustration Act. Dear colleagues, I wanted you to look at the agenda, there's no unnecessary question. This is related to the protection of our military personnel during an antiterrorist operation. This is a question related to sanctions, no secondary issue exists. I guarantee everyone in this room that today the Supreme Council will definitely consider the Book of Illustration Act, dot. So please, Your Honor, I would like to suggest that we work more intensively with you and not interrupt the meetings of the Supreme Council. I know how this is going to go on. Hence, all laws that are included in the order of the day are important. With regard to the Lustration Act, Parliament will not depart until it discusses this law and votes, period. Thank you. Colleagues, please, let's move on to the electoral process. Please. Dear colleagues, I ask you very much. They applied for a break, so I gave them my word. Please, the representative of Strike. No problem. Colleagues, please, let's not interrupt our work. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m0.u11	Dear Alexander Valentinovich, distinguished colleagues! Vitaly Kowalczuk, Vitaly Klick Faction. First of all, we have certainly supported the proposal that the first vote be put to a bill that provides for the electoral system for open lists. The other one. We believe that once we consider amendments to electoral legislation, it is necessary to put the issue of the bill (4359a) on the cleansing of power in order. Because it's an urgent bill, and I think that when we voted in favour of the bills on Tuesday, this bill should be envisaged as an alternative. It is not clear why it stands in order the day before inclusion, if it should, in general, already be included in the agenda as one of the alternatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m0.u12	Dear colleagues regarding inclusion in the agenda. We also thought that when we passed the law, we included in the order of the daily, national deputy Matvienkov, this law would go as an alternative, but when the apparatus checked, the law of Matvienkov did not apply formally to illustration, it applied to electoral legislation. And it's making changes that restrict us to electoral legislation. That's why he can't be an alternative. Dear colleagues, I would very much like to ask you to calm down right now, sit down in your workplace and right now, we need to decide with you how to get into the agenda and make decisions on very important issues. This is a question that primarily relates to changes in electoral legislation. Please, Your Honor, let us work with you in the following format. There was 4222a, and I'll put it first when you don't deny the inclusion in the agenda, then 4470, 4470a. No objections? I won't. Please be seated in your workplaces, dear colleagues. Please prepare for the vote. Please turn on the microphone of the national MP Soboljev.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m0.u13	Dear colleagues! As the author of this bill, I've asked everyone for a minute to understand what we're about to vote for. This is the 4222a bill on open lists based on a proportional system. The only norm here is permission for a higher party body to move and include to higher places those representing regions where there is no party representation. This is true of Crimea, such as Donetsk, Lugansk, where elections may not take place throughout the territory. All other questions, when a citizen determines a party list rather than a party assembly, are defined in this bill and allow each individual to find his or her place clearly on the electoral system. In addition, I have a proposal for this bill to clearly establish a barrier of 3 percent, which allows for the actual.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m0.u14	Dear colleagues, please calm down. Please take your seats, prepare for the vote. People's deputies are requested to decide on the inclusion in the agenda of the Ukrainian Law on Elections of People's Deputies (registration number 4222a). Please vote. [[10:25:31]] For 169 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Parenthood – 75, Regions – 0, Impact – 37, Economic Development – 0, SMS – 2, Sovereign European Ukraine – 0, Freedom – 35, non-fractional – 20. Next offer, dear colleagues. With regard to the inclusion in the agenda and the adoption of a decision on Bill 4470a. This is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on Elections of Ukrainian People's Deputies to improve certain provisions of electoral legislation. The author is National Deputy Sobolev. Please, Your Honor, let's give the author a minute. Also turn on the Soboljeva microphone again.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m0.u15	Dear colleagues! The bill envisions the speeding up of the electoral campaign. This bill foresees a reduction in funding for the elections at the expense of this. This bill provides for the actual possibility of holding elections when these elections follow the system that operated in the 2006-2007 elections. My only suggestion is to exclude 12 and a half million from this bill so that all parties can participate in the elections. And a second offer. It's not a 5% barrier, it's a 3% barrier. In this way, the bill could have been passed in the hall. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m0.u16	Dear colleagues, I will remind you that we are not voting in the first or second reading right now, we are voting for inclusion in the agenda. At this point, we can't make any changes to the law. Please, Your Honor, decide on the inclusion in the agenda of the Draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Elections of National Deputies for the Improvement of Individual Provisions (registration number 4470a). Please vote. [[10:27:44]] For-170. The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Parenthood – 75, Party of Regions – 0, Impact – 38, Economic Development – 0, SMS – 3, Sovereign European Ukraine – 1, Freedom – 35, non-fractional – 18. Next question. One minute, the author asks. Please, Andrew Ivanchuk. Now we're going to make a decision about the draft law (registration number 4471a).
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m0.u17	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs, good afternoon! This bill, unlike the previous one that changes the electoral system, and wanted Sergey Soboljev to introduce a 100 percent proportional system, given by the bill, me and the co-authors, we propose to make changes to the current drafting of the Law on the Election of People's Deputies. Which is exactly what. So there's the system, the mixed system, the election, the majority and the proportion. But this bill is about four major blocks of change that I would like to report to you. First. This is according to the Constitution to which we have returned, which states that they have the right in the Constitution of constituency blocks, we prescribe in these changes the registration order for the CWC of constituency blocks. The second question. In order to reduce the spending of the state budget on early parliamentary elections, we shorten the term and a few electoral procedures, we remove the burden from the state budget. Third block. That's what we put in place, we increase the pledge from candidates to major districts and from parties to translate from the state budget the funding of elections into candidates and into political forces. And the fourth one's on its own.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m0.u18	Allow me to finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m0.u19	And the fourth is the most basic block of changes to existing legislation, and this is about setting results. You realize that there are problems in certain areas with the results areas. And the law deals with these issues so that you can, in the context of today's reality, determine the results of the elections in each constituency. Thank you for your attention. Please vote in favour of the inclusion of the bill in the order of the day.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m0.u20	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I want to remind you that we are not discussing this issue right now, we are not discussing it. I gave the authors the opportunity to bring them into the agenda, to inform parliament, to remind them of the content of these laws. That's why, dear colleagues, in case we include it. [[B in m in s a l in]] Guys, I'm begging you to calm down. If we put it in the order of the day, it will certainly be possible to discuss it in detail. Now, if you'd like to take your seats, prepare for the vote. Please support the inclusion of a daily bill (4471a) is a draft of the Act amending certain laws of Ukraine to improve legislation on the conduct of the election of national MPs. I beg your pardon, Your Honor, if you'll excuse me during the vote. Please vote for inclusion in the agenda, please. [[10:31:28]] For 135 The decision is not taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, by factions, please. Parenthood – 21, Party of Regions – 1, Impact – 36, Economic Development – 22, "MSP" – 0, "North European Ukraine" – 30, "Freedom" – 0, non-fractional – 25. Dear colleagues, I ask you once again, I know that many authors have their laws. We included them in the agenda yesterday. They didn't make it. Period. So, dear colleagues, I'm going to initiate a break after we've now defined other laws on inclusion in the agenda, and we're going to discuss with you how we're going to work on change in electoral legislation. Let me remind you, Your Honor, in the case of non-amendment to electoral legislation, the election to the Supreme Council will take place under the current law. People's deputies please take their seats. Colleagues, very important questions. The next issue related to the adoption of amendments to electoral legislation is draft 4464a of changes to the budget. This project provides funding for the election of national deputies. But there is a serious problem, dear colleagues. Since the changes to electoral legislation have not been made, these changes have significantly reduced the funding of the electoral process, the resources proposed by the Cabinet of Ministers will not cover the electoral process. At the same time, dear colleagues, we can try to include this in the agenda, accept it in the first reading, colleagues, I would suggest you do it, and for the second reading, when we can make changes to the Elections Act, this will be adopted. We won't be able to make any changes to the selections, so you and I will be able to re-read the law by increasing the funding of the election. Another question is, where is the government going to take the extra money? So, dear colleagues, I'm asking you very much. Colleagues, attention, to include in the agenda a draft Act amending Appendix No. 3 to the Ukrainian Act "On Ukraine's State Budget for 2014" (to increase the expenditure of the CTC to the next election of Ukraine's national deputies). Please, Your Honor, include this bill in the agenda. Please vote. [[10:34:29]] For 206 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Parenthood – 68, regions – 0, hit – 40, Economic Development – 17, SMS – 0, Sovereign European Ukraine – 27, Freedom – 35, non-fractional – 19. The next question, my fellow dignitaries, is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Pro-Procurator's Act concerning the formation of military prosecutors. Honorary colleagues, both the President of Ukraine and the Attorney General's Office, are addressing the support of this law, its inclusion in the agenda and its consideration, because this is a matter related to the activities of the prosecutor's office in the eastern areas where military action is taking place. Let's give Alexander Ivanovich Kuzmuk 1 minute, lady (please turn on the microphone) before the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m0.u21	Dear colleagues, the elimination of the military prosecutor's office has already brought evil. She was motivated by the fact that the pressure on the military investigator and prosecutor was less than on the civilian. But this is an achievement, because one of the factors and the first priority is prevention of wrongdoing. And that is what is needed right now in a free fight. I urge you to maintain inclusion in the agenda and to vote on this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m0.u22	Thank you. Dear colleagues, many hands. Let's include -- let's talk about it, let's be able to discuss it in detail. Please, Your Honor, decide on the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Procuratorial Act on the Establishment of Military Prosecutors (registration number 4446a). Please, Your Honor, vote. [[10:36:43]] For the 250. Thank you, the decision is made. Can we, in general, vote, honorary colleagues, without discussion? They insist on a reduced procedure. Colleagues, come on, once the MPs insist I have no right not to allow myself to be discussed. Please support the simplified procedure for dealing with this issue. Please vote. [[10:37:14]] For 215 Decision taken. Please, Ruslan Petrovich Knazevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m0.u23	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! You have before you a draft Ukrainian law amending the Ukrainian Pro Prosecutor's Office Act on the establishment of military prosecutors for registration number 4446a. The bill is aimed at determining the order of formation, staffing and material and technical provision of military prosecutors, as well as the social protection of their employees with the status of military personnel. According to paragraph 14 of Part 1 of article 92, article 123 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the organization and order of activities of the prosecutor's offices are determined solely by the laws of Ukraine. The Law of Ukraine of 13.04 B.C.E. In 2012, the number 4652 "To amend certain legislative acts in connection with the adoption of the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine" and the Ukrainian Procuratorial Act changed the provisions on military prosecutors. The changes were introduced as of May 2012. At the same time, recent developments in the nation’s external and internal threats have shown that the decision was premature. At present, specialized prosecutors are in charge of law enforcement in the field of war. However, their territorial structure, the principles of civilian assembly and organizational principles do not correspond to the degree of threats that exist for the military security of a sovereign, independent, democratic and legal state. In view of the above, there was an urgent need for the authorities of the D.A.’s Office to be restored. The draft law provides for amendments and additions to the Procurator's Act on the subject matter of supervision, guarantees of independence, the system of prosecutor's offices, the powers of prosecutors, and so on. It should be noted that the formation of military prosecutors will significantly improve the operational and effective enforcement of laws in military formations and industrial defence complexes, particularly during the period of exacerbation of internal and external threats. Dear colleagues! Please support this bill and vote for it in general. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m0.u24	Please, Andrew Anatoliyovich Cosemyakin from the profile committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m0.u25	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Before I say a few words about this law, which was discussed on a committee yesterday, I would like to remind everyone there that today, before the second reading, a draft law on the prosecutor's office, which Ukraine was all about when it joined the European Union, promised to accept it as early as 1995. Unfortunately, for unknown reasons, this bill is not adopted, blocked, or considered in the Supreme Council. Therefore, as head of the committee, I appeal to Parliament's leadership, and I demand that this bill be put before the Supreme Council for consideration. With regard to Law 4446a, submitted by the national deputy Knazević, it is proposed that the system of military prosecutors be restored to the structure of the Ukrainian procurator’s offices. I mean, yes, indeed, the military prosecutor's office was, they were destroyed. But in its place, a so - called specialized prosecutor’s office was created to oversee the maintenance of laws in the military sphere. Today, of course, it is not enough, war is coming. Therefore, the committee, after considering the re-establishment of the military prosecutors, supported the decision and invited Parliament to consider it and accept it as a basis and as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m0.u26	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please sign up for the performance, two pros, two against. Please turn on the "Race" system. National Deputy Crook, Economic Development.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m0.u27	Please pass the word to Kuzmuk, Alexander Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m0.u28	Please turn on the microphone of the people’s deputy Kuzmuk or the parliamentary rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m0.u29	Dear Alexander Valentinovich, dear colleagues! In addition to professional education, the military prosecutor has general government education. He lives in the lives of parts and forces of the armed forces. He is a member of the Military Council of Military Unions. He understands clearly the nature and life of the military. In recent years, when we took everything away, we have shown that this is wrong. Many efforts have been made by prosecutors, civilians, to uphold the rule of law in the Armed Forces, but not to break them. We have a war today. There'll be garrisons, there'll be a difficult situation. And today it is imperative that military prosecutors be reinstated who would be on guard in order to prevent military forces from being allowed along with the commanders of crime. Moreover, I am convinced that the time is coming for the restoration of military courts. I strongly ask you to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m0.u30	Please, National Deputy Mishchenko, Freedom.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m0.u31	Andrew Mishchenko, All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Of course, military law enforcement should be carried out by professional experts who, apart from understanding military matters, impose special duties and rights. The office of such a prosecutor is located directly in the military. He's allowed military secrecy, he's bound by military statutes and regulations. Under the current system, the prosecutor is unable to stay in the zone of military or antiterrorist action. Therefore, consideration of the actions of individual military leaders in places that have signs of war crimes, which sometimes give out criminal orders, negligence or betrayal, is delayed for a long time, while military traitors — the Kremlin agents — today continue to carry out their duties and provide secret information about military operations to the enemy. As a result, large numbers of military personnel are ambushed by terrorists, military aircraft, military weapons, and so forth. In addition, it is necessary to take into account the special working conditions of the military prosecutor and to provide social protection for the prosecutor in the area of military action. The faction of the All-Ukrainian Union "Freedom" clearly supports the adoption of this bill, the reinstatement of the Military Prosecutor's Office and will vote in the first reading for the bill. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m0.u32	Please, Deputy Yavorowski People's Party, Fatherland faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m0.u33	Respectable Society! I can't refuse Alexandra's request. Mrs. Alexander Kugel to speak. Give her your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m0.u34	Please turn on Alexandra Kugel's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m0.u35	Ladies and gentlemen, please note that the "Fatherland" faction insists and will vote in favour of this bill on one condition: when it is adopted in the first reading and in general the law that the military prosecutor should be in the military operating parts of the ATO field. So it wouldn't be like the 24th Brigade, 72nd, 79th, when the boys broke out of the environment, and the rat boys who were sitting in the cities were coming in and opening criminal cases. The military prosecutor is where the military goes! Period.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m0.u36	I don't deny that. Alexander Volodymyrna, I'd just like to formulate it. Before voting, I will allow you to formulate it as it should be in the law. Please, Your Honor, National Deputy Rosenco, Strike Squad.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m0.u37	Paul Rosenko, Hit Vitalia Call. Alexander Valentinovich, before I pass the word Chumaku Victor on this question, I am literally five seconds of your attention. We have a bill, a very important bill on sanctions. To this day, we do not even have the material to which we are going to vote and what we are going to vote for. I'm asking you to give the secretariat an order to multiply the table for the second reading so that we can just have a look at it. I ask you to wait for the word of Chumaku Victoru on this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m0.u38	Please turn on the microphone of the Chumak People’s Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m0.u39	Dear colleagues, I would like to remind everyone once again that we have the Procurator's Act, prepared for the second reading (3541), which is very important, which in principle speaks of the need to create or create in Ukraine a European type of prosecutor's office. I understand that today, perhaps the challenges facing the East speak of the need for a return to the Military Prosecutor's Institute. But I think this action should be temporary because the military prosecutors don't fit in with the European model of the prosecutor's office. So I would like to say that we will support this law, but for the protocol, I want to say that in the Final Provisions of this law, the act of law is distributed at the time of the anti-terror operation in eastern Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m0.u40	I got the offer. Dear colleagues, please, one minute, the national deputy Jeremeyev of the Sovereign European Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m0.u41	Dear head, distinguished national MPs! We are at war today and we know, unfortunately, that we know especially when we go to the ATO zone, that there are traitors among the military and there are spies. The "Supreme European Ukraine" faction believes that the Military Prosecution Act must be adopted. But we insist that two standards be included after the first reading. The first is that the states of the military prosecutor's office should be within those states of the prosecutor's office that are today, i.e. not to increase additional prosecutors. And the mandatory rule is that the military prosecutor should be an officer of the military unit appointed to serve in the military. Why? Because today we're repeatedly going to the ATO zone, especially when we're talking to the 51st Brigade after Volnovah, the 72nd Brigade, the 30th Novograd-Wallin Brigade, we're seeing cases where the D.A. is accusing people of what wasn't. When they're in the units next to it.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m0.u42	I got the offer. Dear colleagues! It is based on what was suggested by previous speakers that the military prosecutor should be in the military. I would ask that now I turn on the microphone of Andria Cosemyakin so that he can formulate this position before the vote. The next suggestion, I also think I should be reflected in this law, is that it's within the proper states of the Attorney General's Office. That was the offer? I see. I ask you, Andriy Anatoliyovich, please make a statement so that before the vote, we can hear the MPs.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m0.u43	Dear colleagues! Here's the offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m0.u44	An offer of how it's going to sound in the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m0.u45	Technical design, Alexander Valentinovich. Add to the bill such a rule that prosecutors, military prosecutors, have the right to conduct, that is, to be located in military units, must be located in military units located in Ukraine today.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m0.u46	I see. Dear colleagues, do you understand? I think for the stenographer, let's take a look at the technical editing. Technical editing, so that it can be formulated, but not by a voice, is clearly recorded. Let me give her another chance to try to pin her down to the head of the Committee on Safety of Lithuania, Volodymyr Mikhailovich. Please, Vladimir Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m0.u47	Dear head, dear fellows! The proposal should be formulated in such a way that military prosecutors are in military units that are directly involved in an anti-terrorist operation. Because locations are peaceful settlements. Let's say the 30th Brigade is the city of Novograd Wallinsky. And the second. The second suggestion was that it was within what was said to be a constant number. And the third proposal is for a period of anti-terrorist activity. or more precisely until the adoption of the Public Prosecutor's Office Act, and that issue will be settled on a permanent basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m0.u48	Dear colleagues. I think Vladimir Mikhailovich has clearly focused this position. Do you understand? I see. With this proposal in mind, I would like to support, on the whole, the bill amending the Procuratorial Act (with regard to the formation of military prosecutors). Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. Get more operational in your workplaces so that I don't put a second vote on it. Colleagues! Then you'll talk. Please, Your Honor, vote as a basis and as a whole. Please be supportive. [[10:51:21]] For 249 Decision taken. The factions, please. Parenthood – 75, Regions – 0,40 - Impact, Economic Development – 31, 8 – SMS, "North European Ukraine" – 29, "Freedom" – 35, non-fractional – 31. Dear colleagues, the following issue is very important: this is a draft law amending the Criminal and Criminal Procedure Codes of Ukraine on the irreparability of punishment for individual crimes against the foundations of national security and public security and corruption. Honorable colleagues, principled by the weight of the matter. A very important question! I would like to ask before we now include this issue in the agenda, to include the minister of justice's microphone to briefly comment on the importance and relevance of this bill. Attention, distinguished national MPs!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m0.u49	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs! You have before you a bill on the irreparability of criminal punishment for crimes against national security, territorial integrity, terrorism, separatism and corruption. The point is that those who finance terrorists, those who violate national security and the defence of the country, those who commit corruption crimes, namely, former President Janukovic and his environment, who have stolen hundreds of billions of dollars from the Ukrainian budget and are hiding in the territory of the Russian Federation, will be brought to criminal responsibility under this law. The courts will be able to pass judgments. And the state will be able to confiscate the money that was stolen from the Ukrainian people. This is the requirement that our citizens expect of us, and this is the requirement that was fundamental to Maidan. This law is fully in line with European standards. It is based on resolutions of the Council of Ministers of the European Union, which defines the basic principles of special criminal conduct. This law provides for the actual application of special criminal conduct to persons who are hiding from foreign investigation to be investigated. These individuals are granted the right to defend. And these individuals have the same right to challenge the court’s decision. Similarly, this law provides for an appropriate procedure for applying only to a defined composition, the number of crimes that I have called. These are crimes against national security. These are crimes against Ukraine’s territorial integrity. It's terrorism, separatism. And these are crimes against actually people that involve mass killings. And corruption crimes. Only these crimes can be investigated by a special procedure. A similar procedure is applied in countries such as France, Denmark, Germany, and the European Union. That is why I believe that this law must be adopted in general today. The committee, the committee of profile yesterday considered this law and unanimously decided to recommend it to the Supreme Council as a whole. So I ask you, National MPs, to vote on this law as a whole and to allow our investigating authorities to complete those criminal cases and to return hundreds of billions of dollars to the government budget that have been robbed by the previous authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m0.u50	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I ask before the vote is a very important vote! - Please take your seats. Colleagues! Then we'll talk. Let's prepare for the vote. Please support the inclusion in the agenda of our sitting and the session of the draft Act amending the Criminal and Criminal Procedure Codes of Ukraine on the irreparability of punishment for individual crimes against the foundations of national security, public security and corruption (registration number 4448a). Please, Your Honor, support this important legislative act for inclusion in the agenda. Please vote. [[10:55:42]] For 219 The factions, please. 74 – "The Fatherland", "The Party of Regions" – 0, "The Strike" – 38, "The Economic Development" – 18, "The Mail" – 0, "The Sovereign European Ukraine" – 25, 35 – "Freedom", 21 – non-fractional. Dear colleagues, I address everyone, non-factional, everyone. Dear colleagues, it is our responsibility to enact this law. It is our responsibility that criminals who have raped a country that has robbed a country that has killed people cannot escape punishment anywhere. I would like to ask the distinguished national MPs once again to support the inclusion in the agenda. Please, colleagues, please sit in your seats, concentrate, please. Please support the inclusion in the agenda of this important legislative act. Please vote. [[10:56:52]] For 223 I ask everyone to vote. I'm asking colleagues, you're walking around the hall instead of voting. "To" is 223. The decision is not made. The factions, please. 79 – "The Fatherland", "The Party of Regions" – 0, "The Strike" – 39, "The Economic Development" – 18, "The Press" – 0.33 – "The Sovereign European Ukraine", 35 – "Freedom" – 29 – "Freedom". I'm going to the non-faction MPs. Dear colleagues. I'll give you my word. Please, Oleg Pullibok. I'll give you my word.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m0.u51	Oleg Tuggnibok, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear Society, I understand very well what the atmosphere is now in Parliament. On the one hand, for someone, maybe it's a holiday, August month, for someone -- the feeling that this Parliament, they say, has given God his spirit, but we have to concentrate. In particular, I turn to State factions. Society, it's totally unacceptable when state MPs and one or two factions don't vote. I am very you, and this is not the request of your colleague's national MP, this is the demand of the Ukrainian public, the Ukrainian society, this is ultimately our responsibility. Listen to Parliament Speaker Alexander Turkinov, who stresses the need for concentration, discipline and voting, and we're all saying it now. Society, we vote for statesmen.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m0.u52	Thank you. Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m0.u53	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. The honourable citizens of Ukraine, the bill that we are now trying to consider in Parliament, foresees the possibility of attracting to criminal responsibility the Janukovic gang and its graves, which today are hiding in Russia, which finance terrorism in Donbassa, who helped Putin occupy Crimea. I ask the entire Ukrainian society to pay attention to those who do not vote in favour of this bill. These are the disadvantages of Januković's bank — regionals, commies and so-called M.S.S., which is financed by Januković's thieves: Kurchenk, Arbusov and others. So they have funding for terrorists, and in order to hold those who have robbed the country who killed our citizens accountable, they don't vote for it. Therefore, neither commies nor regionals nor the media have any moral right to sit here in the Supreme Council. If you parasites don't vote now, we'll take you out to the villas. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m0.u54	Please, National Deputy Rosenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m0.u55	Paul Rosenco, Vitaly Caller's Faction. The strike faction, of course, supports the bill and votes in full for the bill. But I'm proposing to go back to this question, to put it in the agenda, because, in particular, my card didn't work, and I couldn't vote for the bill, even though I'm on the spot, I'm not going anywhere, I vote for it. The card was not voted on, so I will ask you to go back to the mentioned question and vote on all the halls of inclusion in the agenda of the day-to-day scheduled issue in full. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m0.u56	Rudzkowski, national MP. Then Soboljev and we will move on to making a decision. I ask the secretariat to make an announcement, inviting all the national deputies to the session room immediately.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m0.u57	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, citizens of Ukraine! Indeed, the Supreme Council, which has actually completed its cadence, can do a number of important things for Ukraine. Adopt laws that will no longer allow corruption to take place in order for someone abroad to seek and reclaim property of the people. The second issue is to adopt laws that will deprive the MPs of the end of the bargain and enter the parliament by professionals. Thirdly, the Supreme Council can adopt the Presidential Impeachment Act to make more presidents just out of a sense of struggle for a better life in Ukraine. Fourthly, I believe that the Supreme Council should adopt social laws: abolish pension reform, raise minimum wage so that there are other deputies to be directed at.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m0.u58	Please, National Deputy Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m0.u59	Dear colleagues! Our "Fatherland" faction supported this bill, to include it, and I want to use a key argument. This bill is a water division: whether we have ended the old Yanukovich regime with total corruption, with total pressure on entrepreneurs, with total punishment, irreparability of punishment, financing terrorism, because it is very good that this bill clearly defines the list of articles. And I think this is going to be a crucial vote for Parliament today. Because in order to not just talk about illustration, not just talk about the new rules of elections, we need to talk about what must be the irreversibility of punishing those who have broken the law, who have violated the key standards of humanity. And I think this law will allow us to make good use of all the mechanisms within the Council of Europe (and this law has been agreed with Council of Europe specialists) on this issue. Therefore, the request to re-vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m0.u60	Please, national deputy Jeremeyev. Dear colleagues! Let's go to the vote, I've given almost all the factions an opportunity to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m0.u61	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! Not long ago we know how peaceful people were shot in the center of Kiev. We often mention the "heavenly hundred" and this law today must be passed only to ensure that these people don't waste their lives. We know today that this authority, which has stolen funds from separatists, is responsible for the thousands of heroes who die in eastern Ukraine. That's why the "Supreme European Ukraine" faction urges the national MPs to vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m0.u62	Thank you. Dear colleagues! All speakers supported the adoption of a reestablishment of this law. Please, David Vajajevic, sit down at your workplace. Please sit down, prepare, adjust to the result, for a successful vote. Colleagues! It is the principle of the position of the entire Parliament to support this bill. Please, Your Honor, include, support the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Act amending the Criminal and Procedural Code on the Inviolability of Penalty for Certain Crimes against the Fundamentals of National Security, Public Security and Corruption Crimes (registration number 4448a). All right, everybody, let's take a vote. Please vote. Include in the agenda. David Vazievich, vote, please. [[11:04:41]] For 237 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, can we support you at once? [[B in m in s a l in]] In general, can we? On the basis and in general, I would ask your honourable colleagues to support this bill. It's very important. Please vote. Mikola, vote! [[11:05:12]] For 210 The decision is not taken. The factions. 78 – Fatherland, 4 – Party of Regions, 40 – Impact, Economic Development – 6.0 – MMS, 24 – Sovereign European Ukraine, 35 – Freedom. 23. The proposal is based on a reduced procedure. Come on! On the basis of this, your honor, please support this project. Please vote. [[11:05:52]] For 235 Decision taken. Is the short - term procedure in place to support the consideration of the issue? [[B in m in s a l in]] We're backing it up. Please, Your Honor, support the simplified procedure for dealing with this matter. [[11:06:15.]] For a hundred and A simplified procedure for dealing with this issue is not supported. Please, by the factions. 76 – "Paternity", 2 – regions, "BRA" – 38, 2 – "Economic development", MMA – 0, "Sovereign European Ukraine" – 25, 35 – "Freedom", 16 – non-factional. Dear colleagues. Dear colleagues, I'm asking the committee to take very seriously the preparation of this law and willingly, and I think that the hall will not deny that we can, however, willingly support this legislative act as a whole, it is very important. To restore resources stolen from countries and to punish criminals wherever they hide. My colleagues, I was approached by two factions, the Sovereign European Ukraine, the Economic Development, and the offer to take a break. Besides, I also wanted to take this initiative. Please, Your Honor, there's a 30-minute recess. There's a break for 30 minutes. I ask the leaders of the MPs and factions to come to the office to the Chief of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m0.u63	I ask the secretariat to make an announcement so that all the national deputies can enter the session hall. According to the initiators of the break, by the Rules, I give the opportunity to speak to the faction. Vladimir Mikhailovich Litwin is speaking.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m0.u64	Dear National Deputies! Dear Head! We asked for a break to draw attention to the situation of mothers, families, and wives of military personnel in the ATO area, whose fate is unknown to many families. First of all, it's about the 30th Mechanized Brigade, which the fifth month in a row is actually killing Towns on the Russian side, on the one hand, and on the other hand, attacks by separatists. You can imagine how family feels when they send her videos with their husbands' bodies and ask them, "What's he doing there?" and "Come and get him"! It is impossible to determine where the deceased is. I'll give you a statistic, dear colleagues. 30th Mechanized Brigade. This morning, 25 people were killed, 13 people were missing without news, almost 190 people were injured. Women go crazy because they don't know what's going on with men. Any attempt at suspense, to suggest that this brigade be taken to rest, to replenish. In order for them to come to their senses, they are accused of panic, desertion, and so forth. It seems that they are just purposeful. She's being exterminated. And the fighters say, "What, we have to go into captivity, then we go back and then we're sent on vacation?" That's why I'm addressing the Chief of the Supreme Council today, the Secretary of Defense, to the General Staff. Listen to those women who scream with their children that they want to know about their parents’ fate, they refuse to do their duty, they need rest for reform and replenishment, that's the first. And the second. Where is our diplomacy? Why not ask the diplomats to go there and see what kind of gunfire is being fired from nearby territory? They're just methodically beaten up, and the military say, "we're going to attack, we're going to free the territory, but we're going to get kicked out of another territory because there's no war." I ask you to count this by addressing the President of Ukraine. Let's hear from our families and let's make sure that we don't win in any way, at any cost. You can't get rid of people, the more they do and do everything they can to set up a constitutional order in Ukraine. They have to be heard, there has to be a decision. I'm asking for your support. It's the scream of thousands of women.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m0.u65	Respectful colleagues regarding the decisions of the Conciliation Council regarding changes to electoral legislation have unfortunately not found a format to which 226 could be obtained under one or the other electoral laws. That is why, as long as there is no change to electoral legislation, the elections to the next Supreme Council will be held under a valid law. That's why they have managers. After the announcement, of course, after they have been announced. So, honourable colleagues, I'm asking the leaders of MP groups and factions to continue consultations on changes in electoral legislation. Because existing legislation is certainly not perfect. Dear colleagues! Before we move on to the important issues of order, and today we have all the questions, I remind you, have the principle of weight, the strategic weight. I would ask that we now vote on one technical issue, but it doesn't need to be included in the agenda. This is a project of Decree 4497a on the continuation of Zajczuk's public service, Valentin Alexandrovich. Dear colleagues, everyone knows Valentina Alexandrovich, who has been professionally managing the Supreme Council for many years. Who, regardless of which majority, minority, honestly, is doing his job professionally in Parliament. I very much ask your colleagues to support this draft decision on the basis and generally on the continuation of Zajczuk Valentina Alexandrovich's public service. Please, Your Honor, support this project by voting on the basis and in general. Please, Your Honor, vote. Sergei Vladislavovich, please vote. [[12:38:21]] For 273 Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now moving to the legislative bloc on second reading, and we now have a table, and we have been asked by the deputies, by the sanctions, to get to know the MPs. We agreed that in an hour we would start to consider this issue, and now, honourable colleagues, asking us to consider the issue, registration number 4322a, is a draft law amending some of the legislative acts on upgrading the state apparatus and simplifying the provision of administrative services. This is exactly the format of reforms in the administrative sector that we started with you, with the Cabinet of Ministers. Please, Valery Volodymyrovich. Please, Valérie. Come on. [[Noise Nodes]] Dear colleagues! Ask the committee head to give another hour to prepare the matter. I would ask the committee to work more quickly so that it can be accepted. There's a table. There's a table. Guys, calm down. Dear colleagues! Next question. Then let us consider the draft Law on the Principles of State Regional Policy. I'm asking the People's Deputy of Kilinkarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m0.u66	Dear National Deputies! Governmental draft of the Ukrainian Law on the Principles of State Regional Policy (Registration No. 4069a) of 13.06. In 2014, it was adopted as a basis for July 3, 2014. At the meeting of the Committee on June 23, this year, a comparative table was reviewed and prepared for the second reading. Seven amendments were made to the committee. They're all accounted for. As a result, a unanimous decision was made to support the proposed drafting of the law. At the same time, I consider it appropriate to make a few words about the comments of the Chief Legal Authority. The first group of comments is that the bill contains some repetitions of the laws already passed. We think it's perfectly normal to look at the title of the bill -- the principles of national regional policy. The subject of this law is such a wide range of issues that it is virtually impossible to avoid certain references and repetitions. But we do not think that these repetitions are somehow in conflict with current legislation. The second group of comments – regarding the lack of consideration of Act No. 4178a on amending the Constitution of Ukraine, introduced by the President of Ukraine, is quite correct. But let's be realistic. First of all, it's not the law, it's the bill. And it would be very strange to take into account the rules of one bill without knowing the final wording of another bill. Secondly, Bill No. 4178a refers to changes to the Constitution of Ukraine, and this is not a very fast process. So we need to stop all the legislative work before this bill is put into effect as a law. Thirdly, the proposed bill after adoption will bring about changes not only in the Law on Principles of State Regional Policy but also in a very large number of other important laws. In particular, about local self - government in Ukraine, about local government administrations, and others. The third group of comments is purely technical. And we do not all agree, especially with regard to the creation of regional agencies, paragraph 10. But paragraphs 8 and 9 are controversial. If the hall still insists on taking into account those observations that may be further developed without changing the fundamental provisions of the bill, the committee is prepared to redraft it and re-read it for two weeks. Please support the adoption of this bill in second reading and in general, as recommended by the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m0.u67	Once again, a committee proposal. In the second and in general, is that what I understand?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m0.u68	Yes. The second and the whole. If not, it may be sent for processing.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m0.u69	I hope so. Thank you, please sit down, Spiridon Pavlovich. Dear colleagues, with regard to regional policy and the support of the regions, we have always voted unanimously here, regardless of political parties, sectors and so on. Requests, honourable colleagues, support the initiative, more loyally, the decision of the committee and vote on the draft Law on Principles of Regional Policy in the second reading and in general. Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. Colleagues, take your seats, please. Please support the adoption of the Law (4069a) on the principles of State Regional Policy in second reading and in general. Please vote. [[12:44:29]] For 176 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Parenthood – 17 (ununderstandable position), Party of Regions – 7, Impact – 36, 30 – Economic Development, 0 – MMA, 25 – Sovereign Ukraine, Freedom – 35, 26 – non-fractional. Please, Sergey Sobolev may comment on what is the problem with this law? National Deputy Kirilenko, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m0.u70	Dear Alexander Valentinovich, dear colleagues! This bill, you've heard the reporter that he's predicting, is probably going to be re-reading the second reading and especially the next bill. Friends, this reform of administrative territory begins, unfortunately, for the benefit of the great cities and the damage of the village. I'm warning the whole room, guys! In these difficult times, let us suppress this reform, let us turn the village upside down, then nothing needs to be done. Another second! And the next law is no voice! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m0.u71	Dear colleagues, the offer is for re-reading. Let us, however, allow this law to be worked out and adopted by Parliament. Please, Your Honor, support the second reading again. Please vote. [[12:45:58]] For 234 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I understand that. According to John Grigorovich, the faction is not prepared to support the Law on the Voluntary Union of Territorial Communities. Colleagues, let's talk about how. Because I can see when the faction doesn't vote, we're not going to have a successful decision. We can then, Ivan Grigorovich, re-read. Please turn on the microphone of MP Pinzenik.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m0.u72	Dear Head, dear colleagues! Many factions may have observations. But in order for MPs to make decisions, we need to tell them what the difference is in order to be able to make informed decisions. So the impact faction suggests that the committee head be given the floor to explain to us what is being prepared for the second reading. And when it becomes clear that there are issues at stake, we can make an awareness of the decision to refer the law to a second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m0.u73	Dear colleagues, I just want to remind you that we have a second reading right now and here is the format one: there are corrections, we can either support them, or we can reject them, and we can vote in general. The discussions are going on at the first reading level. But, dear fellows, let's do it. I would ask that the committee head come to me, and we consulted him. Now let's take a strategically important question for our country, it has registration number 4116a. This is a bill amending some Ukrainian laws on reforming the administration system of Ukraine's only gas transport system. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to ask. Arsenius Petrovich, how will we build? Prime Minister, let's welcome him, he's here to discuss this law and support it. [[Applause]] I'd like to prepare a committee head. And now I would ask the Prime Minister to comment on the changes that have taken place in this law during its elaboration. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m0.u74	Dear Mr. Head, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! Let me remind you once again of the basic and basic positions of the bill. The Ukrainian gas transport system remains 100 percent state property. That's the first one. The other one. The Ukrainian State announces a public competition for investors' participation in the modernization and exploitation of the Ukrainian GTS. Third. Such investors, according to the law, can only be companies of the member countries of the European Union that are duly certified, or of the United States. Four. The so-called operator company is controlled exclusively by the Ukrainian State, namely: 51 per cent is owned by the State, 49 per cent can receive the EU or the United States. Now, with regard to the proposals made by the factions and national deputies of Ukraine. The Freedom faction insisted that the final decision on investor approval be made in the walls of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Despite the fact that the current Constitution of Ukraine does not provide an expanded interpretation of Parliament's ability to make such decisions, I think it is the right political decision. Governments are changing, presidents are changing, and more control by the Supreme Council of Ukraine is needed to balance power on such a complex issue. The other one. As for the position of the Fatherland faction, I think that the proposal made at the Conciliation Council also deserves attention. The point is that we also propose to add two points in the law. The first point is: "In a competition, a company that is either a resident of the EU or of the United States is obliged to disclose all information about its ownership structure and to show all beneficiaries who own the company. This has to be an essential condition. The other one. In that case, if the company that won the competition decides to change its ownership structure, it can only be made if the Ukrainian side agrees to do so. Motivation for the government is clear and correct, it may be that a company that is a resident of the EU will win, and in a certain period of time the property structure will change and the European Union may be owned, for example, by the aggressor countries. With such proposals in mind, we would ask Parliament to vote in favour of this bill. In order for the parliament to have the opportunity, and the people of Ukraine, to receive reliable information about the company’s activities, the company must report once every five years, and the report must be presented, including to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We realize that these additional requirements are, of course, imposed by the bill. Now it's not the turn to invest in the Ukrainian gas transport system. But we need to take the first step towards involving the EU and the US in order to get additional investment costs. In order for the EU to be interested in increasing the transit of gas through Ukraine and, accordingly, we have made more money together. And in order for the European Union to be consistent. The sequence is as follows: if we are together, if we have signed the Political Association Agreement, that means we are helping each other, and we are not building a South Stream that is built exclusively against Ukraine, which is built only for one purpose -- to bypass Ukraine. For the European Union, it's all a story about energy diversification. Everything is equal, full and complete dependence on Russia. And now, with EU member states, we need to not just ratify and sign the third energy package that we have already signed, we need to do it. Therefore, the aim of the law is to have the EU and the United States as operators of the Ukrainian gas transport system, where Ukraine controls the company, and where ownership of the Ukrainian GTS and Ukrainian repositories remains exclusively 100 per cent behind the Ukrainian state. Not only will it involve an investor, but at least it allows us to start political and economic negotiations with our Western partners. Therefore, in view of what has been said by members of Parliament and factions, the government is seeking to vote in favour of the project as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m0.u75	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues, please calm down! Please, let's put our hands down. This isn't a discussion. On the first reading, we discussed it in detail. We don't have a discussion right now, we have a decision to make right now. Dear colleagues, we have just heard the Prime Minister's position, and he has announced the amendments that we have just discussed on the Conciliation Council. And given these rights, which we're going to definitely conduct a technical law during the revision of the law. Let us approve this law by clearly establishing under the transcript that those amendments that the Prime Minister has announced are included in this law. Please, Your Honor, it is now a responsibility to address the energy security of our country and to support Bill 4116a by supporting it in the second reading and in general. Please, Your Honor, vote. Please vote. [[12:55:57]] For 228 Decision taken. "For" is 228 votes. [[Applause]] Thank you, Your Honor. This is a very important question, because it is you and I who have taken a very serious step towards Ukraine's energy security today. The factions, please. Parenthood – 73, Party of Regions – 1, Impact – 39, Economic Development – 26, SMS – 0, Sovereign European Ukraine – 30, Freedom – 35, non-fractional – 24. National MP Mirny, please microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m0.u76	Alexander Mirny, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear Ukrainians! Today, we have seen the practical result of two branches of government. Regrettably, very often narrow parties or other interests hinder a proper state position. And we are grateful to the government that has really taken into account all the changes that Freedom has insisted on. And I would like to point out that, despite the difficult negotiations with the government, despite the fact that often, unfortunately, the right proposals have been rejected by one or the other ambitions, in the end, common sense, the state's position, both on the part of Parliament and on the part of the government, has triumphed. And so today we're going to find that in this way, the law will interfere with both hidden and manifest privatization and we have to do everything we can to be absolutely transparent, according to the spirit and.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m0.u77	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m0.u78	Thank you for the opportunity to finish. I would also like to point out that without society, without public control, without a transparent procedure for defining, assigning and regulating the activities of an operator company, this law will not work. And Freedom, like other parties -- coalition partners -- will do anything to ensure that in no way does Gazprom or the people that are close to it enter Ukraine and, God forbid, do not possess our national property. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m0.u79	Thank you. People's MP Rudzkowski, the Replica. And then the People's Deputy Sobolev, I see the hand.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m0.u80	Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! Today's decision clearly guarantees for all of us that in winter we will not get any cubic meters of gas from the Russian Federation under any circumstances, because the adoption of this law will not increase gas supply or increase transit. That means we put the Americans in charge of the gas transport network. If only we'd invited Bulgarian, Romanian, German shareholders.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m0.u81	Please unlock the microphone. We hear the position of the Russian Federation because of their channels, it's not necessary to sound here in the hall. Please, National Deputy Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m0.u82	Dear colleagues! I think we've now come up with three key solutions. The first decision. Our gas transport system is not privatized and this is enshrined in this law. The second decision. Our gas transport system can be transferred to the administration only with the agreement of the Ukrainian Parliament. This is a very principled position. And the third position. Our gas transport system will in fact be subject to a total audit by the Ukrainian government, the Ukrainian Parliament and the international community, if it cannot be transferred to the aggressor country, which is an amendment to the Fatherland faction. We're very grateful to the session room that you've taken into account our revisions, and from now on we'll know the whole history of companies that can claim, and we'll have in our annual regime control that never again in the country is the history of the "Venko-Prikerchinski" when one company wins, and then the other one gets one.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m0.u83	Thank you. The Zarubinsky People’s Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m0.u84	Thank you. Dear colleagues, two moments. First. The supply or non-delivery of Russian gas to Ukraine, I want to correct what my colleague just said, absolutely does not depend on the adoption of this bill, and unfortunately it does not depend on the economic factors and the real rational economic interests, is a completely different issue. And the second. In order to avoid unnecessary euphoria and unnecessary fears, there is no other investor now to invest in Ukrainian GTS. I think that could be said by both the minister of profile and the prime minister. There isn't! If you think there's a huge competition between them right now, they're gone! This law, the complicated law, we make a matrix. We're making a format of possibilities for these investments to come. If they do not come, Russia and other gas suppliers will not be mentioned. We have adopted a complex but necessary law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m0.u85	Thank you. Hit it, Capplin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m0.u86	Well, first of all, I'd like to say that this bill doesn't have 228 votes, but 229 votes, because my card didn't work, so I'm asking you to count the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m0.u87	Calm down, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m0.u88	That's the first one. Excuse me. What I'm saying is that this bill does not have 228 votes, but 229 votes, because my card didn't work, I'm asking you to count my vote. That's the first one. The other one. Would you like to ask yesterday's oligarch, today's pseudocommunist or socialist Rudzkowski: Tell Kola, why didn't you vote for my anti-terrorist law yesterday, which envisaged the possibility of creating a unit in Ukraine's Security Service to fight terrorism and diversions, and today you're voting for a pro-Russian position to keep Putin in control of the pipe?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m0.u89	Dear colleagues, I see more and more hands. I'll remind you, there'll be lines, everything will be in its own time. Please, Prime Minister. The Prime Minister is asking us to make it. We need to keep the illustration in mind to vote. Yes or no? And now you've started talking, and we should be able to vote everything. The government is asking, Your Honor, (let go of your hands) that we go to the vote for the second, no less important law. Let me remind you, you and I have adopted on the first reading, and we are now preparing a draft of the Sanctions Act for the second reading. Sanctions, respectable colleagues. And now, please, I don't see the committee head getting ready just in case. I ask the Prime Minister to comment on the Sanctions Act.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m0.u90	Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! Thank you for your constructive work in preparing this bill. Once again, I would like to remind you that this is a framework bill that gives the Ukrainian State the right to defend its national interests. In this case, if there is a threat to the national security of the Ukrainian State, the head of the Ukrainian State, through the National Security and Defence Council, will have the right to impose a number of sanctions, such as those imposed by our Western partners, the EU, the US and the Great Seven. What adjustments do we support in this bill? The government proposes to remove restrictions on and termination of the provision of postal services, bans and restrictions on television and radio broadcasting, restrictions on or termination of media activities from the list of sanctions. [[Applause]] Also, restrictions and bans on the production of printed media and other information materials. We believe that such decisions can only be made by the courts of Ukraine in accordance with the laws and the Constitution. There's also an amendment to the strike party, which we also think is correct. It is designed to change the wording of the second article, namely, the scope of the sanctions. Sanctions can be applied on the part of Ukraine in relation to a foreign state, legal and physical persons (nonresidents) who are under the control of those individuals. So the point is that it's not just a meaningful participation, but we're changing the phrase to "hit," "under control." In addition, as part of the drafting of the bill, the Parliament proposed that the Supreme Council of Ukraine be empowered to approve the President’s decree to impose sanctions in the event that such a decree was adopted to impose sanctions on the country or on an undetermined circle of subjects. If the decree is adopted, as we now propose, on the application of sanctions to specific individuals and legal entities, and the government has prepared a list of 172 citizens of the Russian Federation and citizens of other states who undermine the territorial integrity and independence of Ukraine, and 65 mainly Russian companies that finance terrorism and support the annexation of Crimea, such decree is made on the basis of a decision of the Council of National Security and Defence. Dear Ukrainian National Deputies, the government is asking to adopt a law on the protection of Ukraine, to adopt a law that must give a clear answer to any aggressors, any terrorists who seek our national security, our state and our citizens. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m0.u91	Dear colleagues, please allow us to comment briefly on the willingness of the bill to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m0.u92	Dear Head, the country's distinguished deputies of Ukraine! In accordance with the mandate of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at its meeting, the draft Sanctions Act (Registration No. 4453a) adopted on 12 August this year was designed to strengthen the protection of Ukraine's sovereignty and territorial integrity, its national interests, national security, economic independence, and to prevent violations of the rights, freedoms and legitimate interests of Ukrainian citizens, society and the state. Other committees did not make their conclusions to the bill. The board of directors of the Ministry of Justice dealt with 15 proposals and observations that came from entities of the law of the legislative initiative, of which 11, rejected - 1, decided to refer to the Supreme Council of Ukraine 3. Prepared for second reading, the comparative table that is given to you about the sanctions that is being implemented by the Supreme Council's Chief Legal Authority with observations. The Prime Minister of Ukraine has just sounded those proposals that are and will be taken into account. Therefore, taking into account what the Prime Minister has said, the Committee recommends to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the outcome of the consideration of adopting the bill in second reading and in general. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m0.u93	Dear colleagues, I ask you all to sit on your seats, a very serious vote. Ladies and gentlemen, please. According to the table, Jaroslav Dry, please, one minute. Invite all deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m0.u94	Thank you. Dear Alexander Valentinovich, Arseny Petrovich, on Tuesday when we voted, said: Your comments, your suggestions, pass on to the minister of justice. On the same day, I made a comment to the minister of justice. These remarks did not fit into a comparative table. Just with the Prime Minister. I'll give you some feedback. Listen, this is what we talked about in the session room. In article 3, paragraph 2, “Fundaments and Principles”, add: “Sanctions, are set to a term that does not exceed a certain term, for example, 1 year, while the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine is developing a national programme for importing and compensating damages.” That is how all the nations of the world, which have this basic law, operate. If it is not possible to vote now, I ask the Prime Minister to take into account what this observation was, is and is right, because we will never get out of the stagnation of the economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m0.u95	Dear colleagues, I would like a reminder before the vote that the laws passed by the national deputies on sanctions are alternative, they also take into account their basic positions during the revision of this law to the second reading. As for the observation of Jaroslav Suhogo. Is that an observation taken, Arseny Petrovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m0.u96	We have an offer -- that's the right thing to do -- that's very objective, that when Ukraine's sanctions are imposed, it's also going to pay economically, and that's the price of independence. This is our position. As far as importing is concerned, we have to be honest: Russia has systematically reduced all imports of Ukrainian goods over the past 10 years, has systematically compressed its cooperation with Ukraine, and Russia has started a trade war with Ukraine 10 years ago. That's why we signed the Agreement with the European Union. We need to diversify markets and we need to do import. Therefore, protocolly, we take a position, a protocol decision by Parliament on this issue.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m0.u97	Dear colleagues, the protocol commission, we're going to draw up these tasks that were talked about by the national MPs about import, about exportation, that's a lot of questions. But I would like to point out, my fellow Members, that we are now taking no sanctions, that we are now adopting the Sanctions Act, according to which sanctions may be imposed. Unfortunately, we didn't have that position in law at all. And it is this law that is needed not only today, but for the future for our European Ukraine, which should work within the framework of European standards on this issue. So, dear colleagues, please, let's now take into account the Prime Minister's remarks. Alexander the Peacemaker. Take the microphone. In the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m0.u98	Alexander Mirny, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. There is the amendment made by Andrey Tuggnibok, who was put before the committee for consideration by the Supreme Council. From the point of view of the All-Ukrainian "Freedom" union, they are important. The request is then put to the vote and determined, and that is all. And we're going to support it as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m0.u99	Announce this correction.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m0.u100	I'm sounding. Part 1 of article 4 should be supplemented by paragraphs 3, 4, 5, 6 of the following substance: three — complete or partial ban, full or partial trade embargo. Four are a complete or partial prohibition on the making of rights relating to securities, the issuers of which are persons to whom sanctions are applied. The fifth is the limitation, suspension, or cessation of individual banking operations by banks. Sixth is a ban on lending to persons, including banks and financial institutions to which sanctions are applied. In connection with the paragraph.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m0.u101	I understand the correction. Please, the Prime Minister will comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m0.u102	Mr. Alexander, we thank you for your suggestions, and I would like to inform you that your proposal for securities is taken into account, regarding the ban on trade transactions, a separate item and this is subject to wide interpretation, that is, any commercial transactions. With regard to the limitation and prohibition of all types of financial accounts, this is also in chapter four. So your positions are accounted for.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m0.u103	Dear colleagues! Kabmin's comment is heard. Please, Zarubinsky, the national MP, and we will vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m0.u104	Thank you, Alexander Valentinovich. Dear Arsenija Petrovich, I would like to make it clear that you've already talked about this, it's about article 1 of "The Sovereign Right of Ukraine to Defence" (second paragraph) where it's about objects that can become objects for the application of sanctions. You announced it. But in the table that we were given, except for foreign states, foreign legal persons and so on, there's "the citizens of Ukraine" at the end. I would like everyone to hear, obviously, that there will be a conscious vote, or are the citizens of Ukraine staying, or is that true of non-residents? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m0.u105	The sanctions apply only to aggressor states, only foreign subjects of entrepreneurial activity, only foreign companies, foreign agencies and any other abomination that does not allow Ukraine to live.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m0.u106	Dear colleagues, the position is clear. There is a willingness to uphold the law. Please, colleagues, take your seats. Agafone, national MP, turn on the microphone. [[B in m in s a l in]] Absolutely! Please. [[B in m in s a l in]] You must be inserting the wrong card.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m0.u107	Dear colleagues, we do propose to clarify the list of persons who are subject to this law, namely, article 2. We agree that these should be foreign non-residents, legal and physical. But we do have clarification regarding those legal persons who are under control. We suggest that this phrase sounds so foreign. legal persons who are under the control of legal and natural persons, and to clarify, "Countrys if they commit military aggression in relation to Ukraine."
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m0.u108	No objections to the government?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m0.u109	I want to remind you once again that we agreed to propose a change in the wording "under control." The only thing I want to remind you is that we have more than military aggression, so please do not restrict the subjectivity. Let's leave the phrase "under control," as your faction suggested. Everything else is defined in the basic articles of the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m0.u110	Dear colleagues, please, let's get to the vote. In view of the very large number of rights that have been agreed upon right now, and Prime Minister Arsenius Petrovich Yatzenuk has announced them, we will really need to carry out a technical and legal revision of this law after its adoption (I say so for the transcripts). But now, dear colleagues, I ask you to take your seats. Colleagues, then discussions. Voting is now very important. And taking into account the remarks and rights that the Prime Minister spoke about, which the representative of the National Deputy Razwadowski People's Committee spoke about, please, Your Honor's colleagues, support the law in the second reading and in general. I'll remind you, registration number 4453a. I ask everyone to vote in a responsible manner: to protect their country. Vote please, Your Honor. [[13:18:39]] For 244 Decision taken. [[Applause]] Thank you, Your Honor. Thank you. [[Applause]] Please, Prime Minister Arsenius Petrovich Yatzenuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m0.u111	Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! On behalf of the government, a big thank you. We took two historic steps. You're done! First. We have really taken a step towards the energy independence of the state. [[Applause]] And the second. We have shown that the country can defend itself by adopting the Sanctions Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m0.u112	Thank you. Dear colleagues! [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, please, let's have a pierre later. Now we need to rediscover the work schedule. I hope that the main issues will be discussed with you before the conclusion of the morning session. Guys, let's not break up! Keep moving, we're working! We're working. Ladies and gentlemen, there has been an attempt to discuss a matter that we have not yet begun. a consideration that we have not yet begun. This applies to the draft Law on Voluntary Unions of Territorial Communities. Deputy Prime Minister, who is responsible for the issue of regional policy in the government, Vladimir Groissman has come specifically to comment on this law. I would ask that the head of the committee of Gladys Vasil Ivanovich, who should report the law to the second reading, approach the parliamentary rostrum. I don't see Gladys. Ah, yes, he is. As he prepares to report, I would ask that Vladimir Groissman comment on this law, which has raised many questions for the national MPs.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m0.u113	Thank you. Dear Alexander Valentinovich, distinguished national MPs! First of all, I want to thank you for your support in the first reading of this bill, but I would like to point out that this bill is extremely important for the development of Ukraine's villages and villages. Since small villages — and very large numbers in Ukraine — are unable to receive their own direct budget and authorizations that are of district importance today. This law is called upon for the exclusive voluntary unification of the territorial communities. It's about individual villages, individual communities, it's very difficult, for example, to get a garbage disposal technique, or one kindergarten they can't support on their own. They need to be united in order to receive a full budget, full taxes, and to do so more effectively. Similarly, this law regulates these relationships. I'm underlining volunteerism. We allow villages and villages and cities to form powerful territorial communities exclusively on voluntary grounds. So I would like to ask you to support this bill, because it foresees that all mechanisms should be agreed upon by the inhabitants of the territorial communities, according to the mechanisms laid down in this bill. These include joint decisions of local communities that want to unite. So we give villages and villages the right to a normal life. I would like to point out that this bill has been agreed upon by all associations of rural, rural, city councils, district councils. He is now expected in areas where such unification projects have already been prepared. And this is our opportunity and our support, including those who want to form powerful communities as part of the decentralization that we have with you in our country. Please support and believe that most territorial communities will be grateful to the Ukrainian Parliament for making such a decision. Thank you for your attention and ready to answer any questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m0.u114	Please, I ask the head of the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government, Gladys Vasil Ivanovich, to comment on the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m0.u115	Dear fellow national MPs. The bill on voluntary unification of territorial communities, registration number 4070a, is designed to implement the concept of reforming local self - government and territorial organization of government in Ukraine, approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and supported by the Ukrainian Supreme Council’s professional committee. At the request of the Supreme Council, the Committee on State Building and Local Self - Government considered at its meeting on 13 August of this year all comments and suggestions from entities of the legislative initiative to the draft law. I would like to remind you that the Supreme Council of Ukraine, on 3 July of this year, as the Deputy Prime Minister has already said, almost unanimously, we voted unanimously on the basis of the outcome of the first reading. During the period leading up to the second reading of the bill, there were proposals from seven national deputies, a total of 100. Of these, 59 are proposed by the committee to take into account, 5 count in part, 6 count editorially, and 30 reject. In the course of drafting the bill, which was carried out with the active participation of experts from the Supreme Council's Apparatus, the Secretary of the Cabinet of Ministers, the Ministry of Regional Development, Construction and Housing, various local government associations, many public organizations and experts, the bill's concept and key positions have been preserved by the committee in general and adopted in the first reading of the paper. At the same time, a considerable number of articles of the bill have been thoroughly revised. As a result of the committee’s discussion, it was agreed to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in accordance with article 123, paragraph 3, of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, that the draft Law on voluntary association of territorial communities should be adopted in the second reading and in general. The final draft of the bill is being prepared with some comments by the Supreme Council’s Chief Legal Authority. Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Head! In the event of the vote and adoption of the bill, I ask that the committee and the Legal Authority be entrusted with the technical and legal drafting of the bill. In case of non-support by the people's deputies, please ask the question of re-reading the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m0.u116	I got the offer. So there's a proposal for the committee to vote in the second reading and in general. Please, Zarubinsky People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m0.u117	Thank you very much, Alexander Valentinovich! Dear colleagues, I hear some of these conversations here about what is feared, that if communities do not want to unite. Vladimir Borisovich made it quite clear that it was a voluntary status, a voluntary form of unification. And if you look at the body of the bill and even its name, there's no policy in the bill itself. So this is really a voluntary act of the territorial communities. First. The other one. The experience of unifying local communities is not to find a bicycle. This experience has been used successfully in various reforms in the European Union, especially in Poland. And it's a very important moment. If we want the community to have the opportunity to have a certain basic level of infrastructure, the same kindergartens, about what Vladimir Borisovich said, the same schools, the same FAPs, and so on, it needs to be given the opportunity to get out of the fact that they will have better infrastructure capacity when they are united.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m0.u118	Dear colleagues, I see a few hands. Let's not lose the vote, I'll give you a minute. Ivan Grigorovich Kirilenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m0.u119	Dear colleagues, Reverend Alexander Valentinovich! We have in our hands the address of the Association of Rural Heads, which is unequivocally against the adoption of this law. I'll give them an argument. First. A volunteer can turn into a coerced one. When funding is cancelled, there is a compulsion to friendship. The other one. The interests of rural communities and villages are clearly ignored. Third. The optimisation provided for by this law does so in the interest of large cities at the expense of the village itself, and the priority today must be given to the village itself. That's why we're here to adopt the village's Social Development Priority Act, so that we can meet the village, not at the expense of the village, to do this reform. And lastly, I want to emphasize again. It's not time to roll the village. The country is in a difficult state, and we are about to make this reform. Not on time today. The faction will not uphold this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m0.u120	Dear John Grigorovich, distinguished national deputies! The name of the law is "On the Voluntary Unification of Territorial Communities", so there is no element of the compulsion to do so in this bill. Of course, a number of observations can be made, and these observations are made, including by the legal authorities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, by a number of national deputies. But what I want to say is that this bill is really very necessary for local self-government, because it's about that today we don't have real local self-government, we have a lot of cases where a rural community isn't what it can earn to develop its territory, or even to pay a rural head or secretary. So there's no question of coercion here. It is a voluntary union. And I would like to review our common attitude to this bill. I feel that local self - government is needed today.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m0.u121	Please, Katerina Vaschuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m0.u122	Dear colleagues, the Honourable Vice Prime Minister! Unfortunately, that's true what Ivan Grigorovich Kirilenko said. The village councils are alarmed by the situation that we have in Ukraine that everything that is voluntary can become compulsory. And such situations as artificial entanglement, artificial unifications in our absence of roads, such as communication between villages. Most people today live in villages of retirement age. It will be very difficult for people to reach the village council. And the others. It is possible to vote on the condition that when the assistance of such rural councils is clearly provided, rural communities in the state budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m0.u123	Please. Dear colleagues, I'll give you a chance. Come on, I understand that we have, unfortunately, not the amendment going on right now, but the principle of discussion. Dear colleagues, we have two formats. We cannot now go into the discussion of this law, which has already been discussed. We can either vote in the committee, or we can go to the amendment, but I can see that there will be no result. So, dear colleagues, I'd like to ask the Deputy Prime Minister to comment on this law right now, and you and I have identified ourselves with regard to its acceptance or non-admission. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m0.u124	Thank you for the opportunity. Mr. Ivan Grigorovich, I'd like to address you first, because I know you're looking after the problems of the village. I want to assure you that there are no risks associated with the destruction of the village in this bill. I'll give you an example. There are three villages with 500 inhabitants. They find it very difficult to support themselves. They unite completely voluntarily, there is no norm to force them to do so. They are immediately given the possibility of a direct budget and precisely the powers of a city of regional importance. They have direct taxes, a direct budget. They don't have any problems with that, and they start making roads, they start keeping kindergartens, they start doing lighting. We're giving them the opportunity to do that. So since we may have different views on these things, let's take a second reading, we'll talk about it in detail, we'll answer every question, because the government today consistently wants to allow people and communities to develop. I will be grateful for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m0.u125	Dear colleagues, I see that we have found consensus both with the government, with the profile committee, and with the deputies who objected. In fact, the law is important, but we need to clarify at the committee level the standards that would not allow local administrations to abuse the rules of this law and make it a voluntary position, and this was the initiative of local communities to unite, to entwine, and so on. So, honourable colleagues, the proposal that I see is supported by most of the people's deputies present here for re-second reading. Yeah? Yes. With regard to the second reading of the Law 4070a. Please, Your Honor, support the bill on the voluntary integration of the 4070a territorial communities for a second reading. Please, Your Honor, vote. [[13:33:21]] For 239. Decision taken, thank you. The factions, please. 67 – "The Fatherland", 17 – regions, 4 – "The Impact", "Economic Development" – 23, "The Press" – 0, "The Sovereign European Ukraine" – 30, 35 – "Freedom", 33 – non-fractional. Dear colleagues, next question. I'd like you to work quickly so that we can talk about the illustration before the break. Colleagues, the next question of amending some legislation on the identification and registration of animals 4987-1. An important question that opens up the markets of the European Union. Please, the chairman of the committee, Kaletnik Grigory Mikhailovich, is very brief.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m0.u126	Thank you, Reverend Alexander Valentinovich! Honorary colleagues, the bill that you are considering, could not have been accepted by the committee in the last three years in view of the fact that the main position that predicted expenses was the cost of identifying animals, the bill was passed on to the citizens. Now we've finally found a compromise, and we've found a solution. Thus, the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council the adoption of the bill as a whole in a second reading as a law. It has 50 suggestions and amendments. Practically all suggestions and corrections are either taken into account or taken into account editorially. So please support the committee's decision and adopt this bill as a whole. It's a very important bill, as both the Prime Minister and the Minister of Agriculture Policy and Food of Switzerland, Igor Aleksandrovich spoke of, is the discovery and diversification of new markets. We're not going to be able to implement animal production now unless this law is passed. It just harmonizes our legislation and enables us to implement animal production. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m0.u127	Dear colleagues, I understand what is to be supported? Ivan Grigorovich Kirilenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m0.u128	Dear Alexander Valentinovich! Dear colleagues! I ask you to pay attention to what I said to the head of the profile committee, and I'm about to make a statement to Oksana Prodan, the national deputy, our colleague. Alexander Valentine's Day, principle position, we are now approaching the identification of livestock in the population. Older people know how in Stalin times such things happened when they entered the courtyards. Therefore, I ask that it be made clear that the natural persons, and these peasants, are at the expense of the state, only at the expense of the state budget, only then do we vote. If not, the faction will not give a voice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m0.u129	Ivan Grigorovich, I would like to thank you and make it clear that this law provides an opportunity to support the identification of the state budget, and it is stipulated that those interested in exporting products, i.e. legal persons who export products, are also allowed by law to carry out the identification of citizens' livestock. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m0.u130	Please make sure that at the end of the APC minister, the summation is made. Please, Smudge the National MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m0.u131	Thank you. Alexander Valentine’s Day, Gregory Mikolaiovich, I point out that in connection with this bill, it was necessary to tell our citizens, our peasants, who had this issue to resolve in the practical plane, and when and by what article would these costs be allocated? Because this year’s budget is not available, and will it be available in the following year? Because that's a very important question, because if we're going to get government support, then we have to anticipate the cost. Explain, then, so that the people and the citizens know the matter clearly.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m0.u132	Once again, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that these work should be carried out at the expense of the budget, or at the expense of interested legal persons. So the peasants' responsibility for not having the money to make an identification, they don't.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m0.u133	National Deputy Vaschuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m0.u134	Dear colleagues, I wanted to pay attention for one more moment. It's a good thing that, by the way, not the village account will be identified. But I want my colleagues to understand why this rule is so important to the European Union. Because they're monitoring the quality of the product, and from slaughter to finished production, they need to know that this animal was healthy, where it was killed, what is the quality of the final product? That is to say, it will be both Ukrainian citizens and an open road for export because they are seriously concerned about the quality of the product. I mean, it's for the benefit of the peasants. You don't have to, because quality. It's not steel times that will happen.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m0.u135	I see. An important law for entering European markets. Please, the People's Deputy Sold. And I will allow the APC Minister to comment on the situation.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m0.u136	Dear Alexander Valentinovich, distinguished colleagues! The head of the committee reported that identification and registration would be free of charge for individuals. Actually, it's not in the bill. The bill provides only one thing that, for these individuals, a peasant has the opportunity to pay anyone else, another person. But there is no need to pay in the bill. To my second reading, I made three amendments that relate to the very free provision of these services. I ask you very much now to state what would be done free of charge for natural persons. This is Amendments 12, 14 and 32. I am very much asking you to put to the vote these amendments in the paper that "for natural persons to make identification and registration goes free." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m0.u137	Grigory Mikolaiovich, please comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m0.u138	Article 10 states: “State support for the identification, registration of animals is provided for the identification, registration of large bovine animals that are kept and grown in the farms of natural persons.” That is, only natural persons are granted State support. Before that, as you rightly said, there is another article that allows the law to conduct this work to legal persons, business entities who are interested in it. Your amendment, indeed, directly indicates that it is being done free of charge. If we make such an adjustment, then there is no way that we can either allocate funds to the state budget or turn to entrepreneurial structures. Because if we say "free," it's got to be a structure that has to do these jobs for free. That's why your amendment is edited. If you insist, we put the vote to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m0.u139	Please, I'd like you to. I'm sorry. Before Minapk. The committee's proposal is to vote on these amendments? Should we consider them in general when we accept them? In general, take into account. I see.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m0.u140	Under the stenogram: count.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m0.u141	Please, Minister of Agriculture and Industry.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m0.u142	Thank you, Mr. Head! Thank you, ladies and gentlemen! I would like to thank everyone, first of all, for supporting this (without exaggeration) extremely important, I would say, epochical law for our agro-industrial complex in the first reading. I wanted to thank the members of the committee with whom we worked on this issue the other day, and the other day at the committee meeting, it was supported. With regard to amendments 12, 14, 32. We discussed their content. I emphasize once again what the People's Deputies Prodan, Vashtuk, Kirilenko spoke about. The content of this law provides and in technical legal work we will certainly take this into account so that there will be no overlaps, free registration of large cattle, pigs of commodities, sheep, goats, horses for natural persons exclusively, I stress this once more. I think that after yesterday's refinement of the National Veterinary Service with the Supreme Council, most of the issues have been resolved with the Legal Authority. But today, once again, for individuals, this registration will be free of charge. With regard to the question of the people's MP Smittuh, we are currently working on the direction of government support for the agro-industrial sector in the 2015 budget. This question is now in the agenda so that the budget will provide support for this particular direction. It's a difficult question, especially in the circumstances where we've done double-checking and sequestering in the 14th year. But in this field, we've discussed this at a government meeting, and state support in this direction will be implemented. In summary, this law allows us to continue planning work with the European Commissioners in August, September and October of this year. This law allows for the certification of the production of the Ukrainian manufacturer and it receives a European pass. What is a European certificate? This is a document that allows exports of Ukrainian products to over 100 countries around the world. What this means in modern conditions. For our producers, not only animal production, but also plant production, it's an opportunity to export not to Russia, but to China under a European certificate. This greatly simplifies our relationship with the outside world. Please support and promise the daily support of our agrosector for the development of the Ukrainian state today. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m0.u143	Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich, please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m0.u144	Alexander Valentinovich! Dear Mr. Minister! Dear Mr. Head of the Committee! I propose to postpone the voting of this bill to the afternoon. Write the correct article, which will clearly state that for natural persons, or peasants, who now hold 80 percent of the head of cattle, pigs, and so forth, there will be no culpability. Write a direct order for the afternoon and we'll vote for all the halls. We understand that this is a European law and that it is necessary, but as much as it does, we will not vote that way.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m0.u145	Dear John Grigorovich! That's right, with two and a half million cows, two million cows are found in Ukrainian citizens. Under the transcript, the minister has already said. I can duplicate the transcript, and there won't be any deviation from it that the physical persons, the animal owners, will be identified for free. Why leave it after lunch? Your amendment, Mrs. Prodan, cannot be taken into account because you wrote for free both for physical and for legal, - 12 amendments. And we can't do that for legal people, for physical people, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m0.u146	Dear colleagues. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m0.u147	Please vote, support.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m0.u148	Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m0.u149	Dear colleagues! We all know how the purchase price for milk has fallen in the last six months. And if I take this opportunity to ask, so to speak, to the minister of honor, why did it happen that, with his arrival of 50 copies, the price of milk is about to drop? But what is now suggested is that if you buy, this procedure is done, big companies will pay for the peasant and even cheaper to buy that milk. So this slavery, which cannot be supported, I ask not to vote in favour of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m0.u150	Sold, turn on the people's deputy microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m0.u151	Thank you very much, Alexander Valentinovich. Alexander Valentine's Day, I ask you three amendments: 12th, 14th and 32th, that the identification and registration of animals belonging to natural persons is done free of charge. In this edition, I ask that three amendments be put to the vote. Let the hall vote on everything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m0.u152	Please turn on the microphone of the People’s Peacekeeper.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m0.u153	Alexander Mirny, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Honorable Society, Honorable Correctional Authors! There is one essential detail to be agreed upon. Not free, but at the expense of the state! That's what it's supposed to sound like. I suggest in such a way that it's "implemented at the expense of the state." If you need either a transcript or a vote on the amendments, but we clearly point out, at the expense of the state. For free, there's no such thing! For natural persons, it's at the expense of the state. And with regard to milk, thanks to the fact that I have 20 seconds, I want to remind you that because of the active policies of the previous government, including those now called not by the Party of Regions, but, for example, Economic Development, they have reduced, first of all, cattle. Secondly, despite the total closure of the borders, the ministry kept the price. It's not enough opening up new markets! Please show me what you've done.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m0.u154	Please, colleagues, we need to make a decision. Because we're going to talk now and we're not going to make a decision. Let us formulate this position and, together, vote by law.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m0.u155	Thank you. I want to say that the identification and registration of the livestock are not just being taken out for implementation. First of all, the state needs to know clearly what it has, what resources. Know what's in the private sector. That's the first one. The other one. That I fully support the head of the committee and the minister, that this is a real opportunity to implement today's production, because the peasants are groaning today because there's no place to implement the product. That's two. It can't be delayed. And writing what you do for free means that only cheese in a mouse trap is free. To write clearly, "at the expense of the state," as Mirni said, I support it, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m0.u156	Dear colleagues, well, we go around the same definition. I think it's already made up. Please make it clear to the head of the committee, and together, by voting on the law as a whole, we are voting on this formula. Please refer to the state’s account for natural persons.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m0.u157	Thank you. I ask you to support that state support for the identification work, the registration of animals is provided for the identification and registration of large cattle that are kept and grown in the holdings of natural persons, at the expense of the state.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m0.u158	Period. Okay? [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m0.u159	Animal! All the animals! Vote? Vote!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m0.u160	Colleagues, well, I think it's a normal formulation now. My colleagues, I want to say again, at the expense of the state, it's fixed for individuals! Please, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m0.u161	And MPs.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m0.u162	Can we vote? We can. Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats and prepare for the vote. Taking into account the discussion in the second reading of Law 4987-1 on amending certain legislative acts on the identification and registration of animals, taking into account the formulations that the head of the committee will make, which concerns that natural persons are at the expense of the State (I will not repeat the formulation, it has been sounded) will carry out the identification and registration of animals. Please, Your Honor, support me in the second reading and in general with this position taken into account. Please vote. [[13:51:52]] For-200 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. 74 – "Paternity", Regions 6 – "POW" – 1, "Economic development" – 24, "POW" – 1, "Sovereign European Ukraine" – 27, "Freedom" – 35 non-fractional – 32. What are some of the suggestions, fellow believers? They've collapsed a very important law for the agrarian complex. Please, who's from Hit? To the corner, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m0.u163	Dear colleagues! People's MP Kutow, Poltavstina, Hit. The proposal, I think, was very good for our colleague Ivan Grigorovitch Kirilenka: right to write this formulation and consider it after lunch. The law is really important. But we've all seen great compensation for growing a young man that no one has ever seen. We have seen so many promises. And today, it sounds like we don't have the money for all of this at the expense of the state, but the responsibility remains. And whose side do you think the controlling organs will be on this grandmother's side or on the side of the inspection? So I'd like to take a look at it after lunch. The law is really important, but the law is not. And let's go back to the illustration at last.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m0.u164	Dear colleagues, I have such suspicion that after lunch this law will be broken. And we're not going to have a next session tomorrow because we need to make effective decisions and make effective votes, not just talk and put down questions. So, honourable colleagues, I would like to ask, the formulation is clearly focused. Let me re-emphasize for the transcript that we're going to do a technical legal editing. Nobody. You heard the APK minister, well, no one's going to look into these questions. I would ask that we now uphold this law. After lunch, we will have other questions to discuss and vote on. Please, Vitaly Anatolyovich Kovalczuk, we can. I say again, colleagues, there's a desire to crash, let's crash, not a problem. [[B in m in s a l in]] Guys, I'm back, calm down, calm down. Can we get back to the vote? We can. I ask you to support the return to the vote on this matter. Please, Your Honor, support the return to this question. [[13:54:42]] For 268. Decision taken. Please, Your Honor, take into account the wording that was given to the head of the committee regarding individuals. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, I am once again, when the blow won't vote, it won't pass. Dear colleagues, why do I need a vote? [[B in m in s a l in]] Vote? Okay. Colleagues, considering, yes, the head of the committee of law regarding individuals, please support Law 4987-1 as a whole. Please vote. [[13:55:45.]] For 233 Decision taken. Thank you. We supported the agrarian sector. The factions, please. Parenthood – 77, Party of Regions – 30, Impact – 2, Economic Development – 27, SMS – 0, Sovereign European Ukraine – 28, Freedom – 35, non-fractional – 34. Dear colleagues, I ask you to continue the work of Parliament for 15 minutes, so that we may be (quietly, colleagues!) So that we can go through the question of illustration. Is there no objection? There's no objection. Dear colleagues regarding the draft Law on Opposition and Prevention of Separatism, the committee is not ready to report this law. There'll be a committee ready at four o'clock, and I'll ask you a question. Dear colleagues, we discussed this issue during the meeting of the leaders of the parliamentary groups and factions, and representatives of the parliamentary groups and factions, the leaders, decided to start a block of these issues by including in the agenda of the 4359a bill. Is there no objection? There's no objection. Please, Your Honor, support the inclusion in the agenda of the day’s session of the Law on Cleanse of Power (register No. 4359a). May I have the honorary National Deputies vote? Please be supportive. [[13:57:29]] For 249 Decision taken. Dear colleagues! What's the offer? "SHOOT" suggests on the first reading. They support a lot of MPs, Fatherland supports, I see, in the first reading. Without discussion, can we read first? The mood is good for the MPs. Dear colleagues! Please support the adoption of Law 4359a in the first reading, please vote. [[13:58:15.]] For 252 Decision taken. Thank you, fellows of honor! [[Applause]] The factions, please. Parenthood – 78, Party of Regions – 5, Impact – 40, 34 – Economic Development, Peace and Stability – 0, Sovereign European Ukraine – 28, Freedom – 35, non-fractional – 32. Please, National MP Derevyanko asks him to turn on the microphone. Or from the rostrum? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m0.u165	Dear colleagues! I sincerely thank all of our colleagues who participated in the preparation of this law for being included in the agenda and for voting in the first reading. I want to say that during these two days, we have received a large number of reasonable suggestions for the improvement of this bill from various parliamentary groups and factions and non-fractional ones. So I'm asking you to join the task force now so that we can prepare this bill for second reading as a whole and have 300 votes on board. Because we all understand that this is the law that is the powerful starting point for the renewal of the state. It is this law that makes Ukraine stronger, this law that will allow us to renew power, provide social elevators for those professionals and people who have high trust to be in power. Therefore, it is a great request that our representatives be added to the working group so that we can finalize this law by means of a reduced procedure, put forward the next Supreme Council for a session week, when we have a meeting, and vote on this law as a whole. It's amazing.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m0.u166	Thank you. Dear colleagues, in view of the fact that we will have a basic committee to deal with the issue, I also support the invitation of the national deputy Derevyanka, and I recommend to the leaders of the parliamentary groups and factions, those who want to join in the work on this law, to make their proposals. I think that, along with the profile committee, this question will be dealt with. Please, People's Deputy Kaplin.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m0.u167	Today is a truly revolutionary day, a historic moment in the life of our country. [[B in m in s a l in]] "Lustration" in the translation is "cleaning." I would like to thank those millions of Ukrainian citizens who have been to and fought for this moment, for this opportunity for the Supreme Council of Ukraine, by voting for this, to atone for most of their sins. I want to thank all the hitters, I want to thank all the Fatherland workers, Freedom, all the deputies and those who at the last minute washed the blood off their hands by this vote, by voting with their hands, for everything else. Today we have given birth to a new government in the country, and today we have given the country the opportunity to rise from our knees. Thank you to millions of Ukrainians, and thank you to those who have now supported the national MPs of the strike faction, who have already met the main requirement of the software document, the illustration. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m0.u168	Dear colleagues, I see so much that virtually all the factions of the former coalition have actively supported this law. Except for the Strike and Fatherland faction, and Freedom and the Sovereign European Ukraine, and Economic Development, and so on, and many non-fractional national MPs. Dear colleagues, there's an offer, let's go now, now that it's gone. National MP Lazko asks for one minute. Dear colleagues, there is an extraordinary situation, I am obliged to give him my word. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m0.u169	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear colleagues! Dear National Deputies! Dear citizens of Ukraine! During a break in Parliament, our fellow MP, Shevchenko, the newly elected, attacked me. [[B in m in s a l in]] That's what I'm talking about. [[B in m in s a l in]] That's what I want. Apparently, a person did not read books when he was a child, only knows how to wave with his hands, and he almost broke his jaw. I want to say to Chevchenka, and to all the oligarchs and separatists who have declared me hunting, that you will not stop me, you will not frighten me. And I'm going to fight this disease that is now occupying Ukraine -- oligaric and Separatist -- to the end. The Lord sees everything. The Lord will judge. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m0.u170	I have been instructed by the Standing Committee to consider this issue immediately, i.e. the attack on Láška, and report to Parliament. Please. In the case of available grounds, transfer all material to the competent authorities. Please form it as an assignment. Dear colleagues, we still have time, but we continued for 15 minutes. I ask you, we have two laws that are close to the issues that we are currently considering, which, you remember, are putting a radical problem a little bit differently. And I would ask that we determine their future fate. This is Law 4429a, 4429a-1. Let me remind you, these are laws to amend article 9 of the Ukrainian People's Deputies Act. The authorship is the national deputy of Matvienkov and Kolesnik. Dear colleagues, can we not discuss them? Give the author one minute. Please, the people's deputy of Matvienkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m0.u171	Dear colleagues! The proposed bill on changes to elections to the Supreme Council of Ukraine envisages taking into account the requirements that society and time have set for today. Regrettably, for 23 years the Supreme Council did not live up to the expectations of voters and ceased to express the interests of the people. As a result, this is confirmed by disgruntled representatives of the people still standing under the walls of the Supreme Council. Before the election campaign, I believe that it is only possible to change the situation by following up on a call that has been repeatedly announced: the reintroduction of power. So the bill that I have proposed provides for a ban on the election of Ukrainian nationals, who have been elected by the People's Deputies of the first and seventh vocations. It is necessary to start with the political forces that, according to today, are the powerful potential of young politicians who can come to Parliament not only with slogans from the people but also with a real loan of confidence. Not burdened with business or lobbying. They say it's clean.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m0.u172	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m0.u173	They say we should start with a clean sheet. And this will be a real upgrade not only in Parliament but also in each party. And for this we do not need to update programs, statutes, or party names, to merge into new blocks, as is done before the elections. Of course, the newcomers will not simply cope with the burden left to them. This is where the experience of those who have already had parliamentary mandates and who see themselves in Parliament will be the next call. The law does not prohibit former deputies from being assistants, experts, or advisers. I propose not to all my colleagues, but to support this bill, which is essentially a renewal of power, as people demand. And the results of the vote are published in the press. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m0.u174	Yes, it is. Please inform the national deputy Kolesnikov briefly under his alternative law.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m0.u175	Dear Alexander Valentinović, distinguished colleagues, friends, ladies and gentlemen! I'd like to say two words about the law. It has a wider spectrum than my colleague, Sergei Matvienkov. The point is very simple: all deputies from 1990 to the present, as members of the Supreme Council, have no right to participate in the next elections. All staff members of KPCS, WLXM, I stress, established, those who have received salaries in the bodies of KPCS and WLXM, as well as in the special services, are not entitled to participate in the next election of the Supreme Council. All presidents, prime ministers, ministers and heads of regional public organizations are not entitled to participate in the next elections. Our country is in a difficult situation, and it is our common fault, and our common merit in coffee. There are MPs who have been here for 24 years as a political force, there are those who came in this very structure for the first time -- Freedom and Hit. Still, someone's more guilty, someone's less guilty. If we want to cleanse the power, let us cleanse them completely.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m0.u176	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m0.u177	I would like to recall that Poland has experienced the most successful illustration, which has resulted in much more law-enforcement than in the left hand side of the KGB of the USSR or their agents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m0.u178	Dear colleagues, can we vote without discussion? The only thing the authors forgot to include in this law a party of regions, I think. Hence, the law does not come out objectively. Please. And I'm going to vote and I'm going to give you a chance to say it. Yes. Please. Dear colleagues, please. Please decide on the adoption of Bill 4429a in the first reading. Please vote. The author is Matvienkov. [[14:08:55]] For-126 Decision taken. Some MPs I see when they see that they don't pass, they press to make sure they don't get so scared afterwards. Please, by the factions. Parenthood is 24, Party of the Regions is 30, Impact is 4, 3 is Economic Development, MMS is 0, Sovereign European Ukraine is 9, Freedom is 34, non-fractional is 22. Dear colleagues! It seems to me that those who voted may voluntarily refuse to take part in the election. Right, dear fellows? And an example to give to all others. I think it'll be honest and principled. Please note this proposal. Please, the next law is 4429a, please. [[B in m in s a l in]] Wait, fellows, we haven't voted yet. Please. Please, Your Honor, determine your support for the first reading of Bill 4429a-1 of the People's Deputy Kolesnikov. Please vote. [[14:10:09]] For 106 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Parenthood – 10, Party of Regions – 30, Impact – 0, Economic Development – 1, SMS – 0, Sovereign European Ukraine – 15, Freedom – 34, non-fractional – 16. These two laws are regarded as being rejected. I would ask the national MPs to really concentrate on the work, on the law of 4359a, which concerns the cleansing of power and the actual illustration. Please, dear fellows. The national deputy Shevchenko demands a replication in connection with what was called his last name. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m0.u179	Thank you. The Honourable Head, the Honourable Deputies, the Honorable Community, the Ukrainians! I'd like to say that it seemed that the person who blames me, Mr. Easy, that she has the power of will, and in general, besides talking, she knows something else. I was wrong. So I'm going to say that he reminded me of Yanukovich, who fell from the egg. That's why I don't think Ukraine needs such fake patriots. And I will certainly do everything I can to keep the populists and provocateurs in the Supreme Council as small as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m0.u180	Please, National Deputy Lazko, his last name has been mentioned. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m0.u181	Dear fellow citizens! Notice who applauds those words. They applaud the regionals, they applaud the Communists. No wonder they applaud. Compared to an egg, I think it's hard to compare your hand to an egg. Hand. I think you could compete with Chewchenk and Clic. I'm not falling off an egg, and I'm not falling off a bullet, and I'm not falling off a fist from your fist. And I'm saying once again, you can spread your hands, you can hire keelers (and there's information about it), you can try to stop me. But you can't take one from me -- the right to speak the truth and the right to stand up for the millions of people behind me. You can kill me, you can discredit me, you can humiliate me, you can tell me how you fight me, but, again, I say, Lord, I have two options to speak the word. And as long as I live, I will tell the truth.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m0.u182	Dear colleagues, this concludes the morning session. The Supreme Council will continue its work at 4:00. Please don't be late.
