ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-28-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national MPs! Please take your seats, get ready for registration. In our tradition, I inform you that today we are celebrating the birthday of our national deputies, Matthew Valentin Grigorovich and Czervolenko Alexander Vilenović. [[Applause]] I ask the secretariat for the fact that many people have gathered at the Supreme Council to put a sound on the street so that people can hear and understand the decisions that our Parliament is making. Dear colleagues, I see everyone is ready to register. Please turn on the "Race" system and log in. [[10:11:31]] A 271 national MP was registered in the hall. The Supreme Council is starting its work. Dear colleagues, we had a very important day for our country yesterday. Yes, the vast majority of the world’s nations at the United Nations General Assembly have fully supported Ukraine by condemning the aggression of the Russian Federation, demanding the liberation of the occupied Ukrainian territory. [[Applause]] This is very important for our nation, this is the decision of the UN General Assembly and the support of the entire civilized world. In particular, important decisions have also been made in Parliament. I will remind our fellow countrymen and respected colleagues that thanks to the thoughtless, criminal activity of Yanukovich and his environment, his Cabinet of Ministers, Ukraine was virtually bankrupt. Imagine 200 billion dollars of budget cuts that couldn't be cut off. And that's why the Supreme Council for the Cabinet of Ministers made a very courageous decision, took a very courageous step. We voted with you on the Law on the Prevention of a Financial Disaster and the Creating of Prematures for Ukraine's Growth. You and I have stopped the country a step further to complete bankruptcy, to halt payments on pensions and salaries. You and I have set the stage for an anti-crisis action by the Cabinet of Ministers. And I thank all the national MPs who voted in favour of this heavy package of hard economy, but it is necessary to stabilize the situation in our country. I also want to remind you that yesterday, the Supreme Council supported the appeal of many Ukrainians by approving in the first reading, adopting the Act on the Cancellation of Environmental Taxes for the Exploitation of Vehicles, the tax which was disproportionately high, adopted by the past government and which effectively prevented our citizens from having and using a decent car. I would also like to thank the honourable colleagues for starting yesterday a process of restoring confidence in the judicial system by approving the law in the first reading. And we've also provided you with a normal opportunity to mobilize, approving the whole "Guarantees to Workers at the Time of Their Mobilization Obligations" Act. We have saved people, patriots who will go to the ranks of the Armed Forces and the National Guard, their average wage, their jobs, and their normal conditions for fulfilling their constitutional obligation. The Russian Federation's aggression stands in the way of stabilizing our country. It was an attempt to destabilize the situation in the Eastern, Southern regions during the last month. But they didn't get the expected result. They were unable to ignite the fire of separatism in our regions. And so there's an attempt to destabilize the situation in Ukraine -- downtown, in the heart of Ukraine -- in Kiev. This is the task of the political leadership of the Russian Federation in front of its special forces. Unfortunately, yesterday, consciously, or unconsciously, some citizens tried to provoke the Supreme Council. I want to tell everyone that the Ukrainian Parliament is the foundation of legal Ukrainian power. This is a foundation without which power cannot exist in Ukraine. Parliament likes it, doesn't like it, but there is no other parliament in Ukraine today. And for those who want to change parliament, there is only one way to vote in elections. In honest, transparent, democratic elections, choose the people they trust. There is no other way, there is no other way, there is no force, there is no provocation. This path, which leads to the disaster of the country, is the path towards its own state, it's the way to support an aggressor who concentrates his armed forces on the borders of our country. That is why I thank all the patriots, including our deputies, who did not allow provocations against the Supreme Council yesterday. I thank all the patriots who went to Parliament today to protect the Supreme Council of Ukraine from provocations, from attempts to destabilize, to stir up the situation, to sow dissipation and anarchy. I address all citizens. Dear compatriots, Midan has stood for all to be equal before the law, to be equal before our Constitution. And that's why either we protect the law and on this foundation we can restore a democratic European power, or we can break the law and destroy our state. All equal before the law, and for breaking the law, everyone must be responsible, without limitation, without exception, without special political, corporate dividends. That won't happen. The law will prevail in Ukraine, and all citizens must protect it. Dear colleagues, unfortunately, we have a problem with the death of Alexander Music in the Plains region, which is known by more people as the Saxon White. And what I'm saying is that the honourable colleagues, in order to avoid being around this provocation, some incomprehensible mysteries, rumors, the Supreme Council should provide a clear and transparent test of the circumstances of this man's death. It is our duty, and I would like to ask the distinguished National Deputies to make the first decision with you on the establishment of the Provisional Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to investigate the death of Alexander Music. I'm going to comment on this very briefly. We propose the establishment of a temporary commission of inquiry, the election of the head of the interim commission of inquiry, Yuri Derevyanko, and the corresponding proportional representation of our parliamentary groups and factions. In order for the commission to conduct an objective investigation, and in the citizens who want to find out the clear circumstances of the events that took place in Equine, we suggest that the temporary commission of three representatives of social organizations interested in an objective investigation be involved. So, my dear colleagues, I am confident that Parliament will support the proposal and I would like to include in the agenda the first issue of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Order No. 4598 on the establishment of the Provisional Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council on the investigation of the deaths of Alexander Music. I'm sorry, I can see the hand, it's just that we don't have to include it, that's how the committee votes without getting involved. Thank you. Dear colleagues, can we put to the vote the creation of this commission? We can. I ask, please, my fellow Members, to support and vote on the basis and as a whole of the Order on the Establishment of the Provisional Inquiry Commission of the Supreme Council. Please vote. [[10:22:29]] For 232 Decision taken. The next commission has been created. Thank you, distinguished people's deputies. The factions, please. Region Party 17, Fatherland 78, Impact 32, Economic Development 22, Sovereign European Ukraine 26, Freedom 32, Company 0, non-fractional 25. Dear colleagues, according to tradition. Please, we don't have the Rules of Procedure. We honorary colleagues, according to the organization of our Parliament’s work every Friday, are with you to announce the parliamentary requests and appeals of the national deputies. I'd like Ruslan Volodymyrovich to help me with this. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-28-m0.u2	Ladies and gentlemen of the national parliament, there have been questions from the national MPs: Viktor Razwadowski, head of the Žitomir District Administration for the provision of financial assistance to the Lastivka Preschool Institute in the village of Lysztómir district of Žitomir district. Victor Razwadowski to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the contribution of funds to the acquisition of medical equipment for the Žitomir district clinic Alexander Herbachevsky. Andrija Pishny, acting as Attorney-General of Ukraine for the verification of violations of the requirements of effective legislation, as well as of the illegal inaction of individual employees of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in the Ivano-Frankov region regarding timely, comprehensive, full and impartial investigation of criminal conduct. Leonidas Bysarov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the repayment of the debt owed to former personnel of the Krasnoarmian Mine for the 2006-2008 domestic fuel supply. Vladimir Ariev to the executive responsibility of the Attorney General of Ukraine to review the case of convicted Vladimir Pietuhov in accordance with the European Court of Human Rights. Groups of people’s deputies (Grenevich, the apostle, and others) A total of 7 deputies) are under the responsibilities of the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the illegal, raiding actions of the former President of the National Academy of Agricultural Sciences of Ukraine, Mikli Bezugog, aimed at the insolent admiration of the Academy’s premises and the strong release of its leaders. Anatolia Goncharova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on State support for the coal sector. The Group of Greenewecko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine to ensure compliance with the requirements of article 6 of the Law on Social Protection of War Children on Retirement Allowances or Monthly Life Allowances or State Social Assistance, which is paid instead of Pensions. The Group of Greenewecko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the status of implementation of the Ukrainian Law on the Universal Purpose Program for the Transfer of Hostages to the Ownership of Territorial Communities for 2012-2015. Alexia Kayda to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, acting as Minister of Defence of Ukraine for the use of the property complex of the former 11th Special Guard artillery Kyivsky, Ternopil Orders of the Red Flag and Bogdan Hmelnicki Brigade for the deployment of one of the military units. Alexia Kayda to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Youth and Sport of Ukraine, on the use of measures to prevent the reduction of financing of physical culture and sport. Victoria Bullach to the head of the National Bank of Ukraine regarding the non-execution of the private stockholders' company Commercial Bank SOUTHCOMBANK terms of the contract for servicing the current account for participating in the affordable housing programme with state support for the non-counting of funds. Oleg Heleway to the Minister of Health of Ukraine regarding the legality of the closure of the blood production department at the Kiev City Blood Center. Alexander Shevchenk to the head of the National Bank of Ukraine on the activities of Northgeology transferred to the administration of the National Bank of Ukraine. The Gennady of Moscal to the executive duty of the Attorney General of Ukraine to verify the facts of unlawful actions, abuse and abuse by corrupt officials of the Ukrainian State Service from medical devices and use of urgent measures to protect the Society's modern pharmaceutical business with additional responsibility "INTERCHIM". Victor Pinzenik to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for information on the number of employees, salary and non-profile assets of the National Shareholder Company Naftogaz Ukraine. Sergey Kunicina, acting as Attorney General of Ukraine on the inaction of the law enforcement authorities of the Dnipropetrov region in relation to the rape of an eight-year-old girl. Fedor Negoya to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Agriculture Policy and Food of Ukraine, on the need to consider a draft decree of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine "On the Approval of the Standard Financial Assessment of Agricultural Lands" in order to bring the standard monetary valuation of agricultural land into line with the current conditions of farming and the protection of land users of low-productive regions. Anatolia Goncharova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the development of a programme for the development of the central area of Donbas. Roman Ilik to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the financing of reconstruction and for the construction of a public education school in the village of Rolov Drogbytsky district of Lviv. Paul Kirilenko, acting as Attorney General of Ukraine for the raiding of the immovable property of the Liverman-Ukraine fish conservatory. Maria Matios to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, acting as Attorney General of Ukraine for the situation at the Kyiv Linguistic National University of Ukraine. Alexander Brigintz to the head of the Kyiv City State Administration regarding the imposition of a moratorium on any action on the transfer of the Actor's House to the address: the city of Kyiv, the street of Jaroslav Val, 7 before the election of the new Kyivrad and the Kiev City Head. Ruslan Solvar to the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Authorized President of Ukraine from the rights of the child, the Ministry of Social Policy of Ukraine, the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine for the protection of the constitutional right to housing of young children. Ruslan Solvar to the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine, Kyiv District State Administration, Makarov District State Administration of the Kyiv Region, on the need for a thorough study of the offers of teachers of the Novosilkow School of Public Education, I-III degrees in the Makarov region of Kiev to address the urgent problems of the education sector and take appropriate measures. Eugene Melnik to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine, for the implementation of State building standards during the reconstruction of Taras Shevchenk Street in Volodymiri-Volinski Volinsk Region. Leonidas Bysarov, head of the State Geology Service and the Ukrainian Nadar for simplifying the procedures for obtaining permits for special water use. Vladimir Chuba to the Minister of Ecology and Natural Resources of Ukraine on urgent measures to recover the River River River River River River. Vladimir Chuba to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the regulation of the procedure for determining the occupational risk of production for mining and enrichment enterprises. Artura Palatno under the responsibility of the Attorney General of Ukraine to verify the activities of the procurator of the city of Artemovska Donetské District of Victoria Tkacuk. Mikoli Palamarchuk to the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, the first deputy general prosecutor of Ukraine to verify the activities of individuals who used privileges and corruption with the former Yanukovich government to cause the theft of state funds to a particularly large extent, and to fund the illegal actions of Titushok against participants in the Jewish peace action. Basil Wooden under the responsibility of the Attorney General of Ukraine to carry out a review of the work of the committee’s head in the competitive trades of the Road Service in the Ternopil region of Bogdan Yulik. Vasil Petíkovka is under the responsibility of the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the rightfulness of the alienation of municipal property in the village of Kobilecka Polyan Rakhiv district of Zakarpatsk. Jury Herzov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the legal regulation of relations relating to the use of State property and the granting of rights to carry out economic activities in the area of gas distribution. Andrija Shipka to the Minister of Health of Ukraine to address the issue of compensation to the medical establishments of Nicopol Dnipropetrov, Dnipropetrov region, for the implementation of medicines for the treatment of hypertonic disease. Eugene Melnik to the Minister for Agriculture Policy and Food of Ukraine, Minister of Ecology and Natural Resources of Ukraine on environmental risks during the activities of the Private Shareholder Society Vladimir Volinska bird factory, which could lead to an extraordinary situation. Vladimir Yavorowski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the recalculation of the debt and the sum stated by the Russian Federation Ministry of Finance, in 1997 between Ukraine and the Russian Federation in the rental of the assets of the Black Sea fleet, since no real estate inventory was carried out at the time of the reconciliation. Vladimir Yavorowski, Acting Attorney General of Ukraine, Head of the Kyiv City Public Administration, Head of the National Architectural and Building Control Inspectorate in Kiev, for the violation of the requirements of legislation in the area of urban activities by the Public Shareholders Association "House Combination 4" in the construction of the 20th Microregion of the Housing and Social Infrastructure "Vygradja Trojšťina" in the right-wing district of Kiev, which deprives residents of comfortable and social infrastructure. Oleg Tuggnibok to the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, National Council of Ukraine for Television and Broadcasting, Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine for anti-Ukraine activities of the Odessa National Law Academy. Roman Ilik to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on Cabinet Order No. 175 of March 20, 2013. Irina Farion under the responsibility of the Attorney General of Ukraine for the inaction of officials of the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine to ensure the proper functioning of the national language at the Eastern Ukrainian National University of Vladimir Dal. Irina Farion is under the responsibility of the Attorney General of Ukraine for the unlawful removal of the will and the threat of murder to the resident of Sevastopol Igorvi Georgievich Kiryushenko and his wife, as well as for the forced abandonment of Crimea by the unnamed people with white bandages and the inscription "Russia Block" on their left hand. Mikoli Dzardanova to the Minister of Interior of Ukraine for the illegal seizure of the premises of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of Ukraine at the address of the city of Kiev, Borisoglibska Street, building 7. Bogdan Benjuk under the responsibility of the Attorney General of Ukraine for the beating of the deputy of the Supreme City Council of Jury the Forest. Bogdan Benjuk to the head of the Ukrainian Security Service on the anti-government activity of the so-called Ukrainian Orthodox Greek Catholic Church and its head, Antonin Doglán. Edward Leonov is under the responsibility of the Attorney General of Ukraine for numerous attacks by the Berkut Special Unit during 2013-2014 against Ukrainian nationals and civilians. Edward Leonov, acting as Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Head of the Ukrainian Security Service for the illegal acquisition of important municipal property by structures related to the criminal activity of Viacheslav Suprunenka. Sergei Gordienka, head of the Poltava District Administration, Head of the Regional State Labour Inspectorate in Poltavska District, Prosecutor's Office of the Poltav region for the protection of the interests of the employees of the Orzicki Rajavtodor branch of the Polish Oblautododor subsidiary, which is not paid a salary for several months. Sergei Gordienka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, on the demands of war veterans and the military conflicts of the city of Kremenczuk regarding the non-declaration of the social guarantees of citizens in connection with the signing of the cooperation documents with the International Monetary Fund. Vladimir Pilpenka, head of the Poltava District State Administration, for the restoration of the Lubna-Zarog District bus route and for the provision of transport services to the users of the Lubenski and Orsgi district with favourable conditions for passenger transport. Oleg Zarubinsky to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine - Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine on measures to prejudice the sub-warming of communications and the population of Ukraine. Oleg Zarubinsky to the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine on encouraging employers of Ukraine to work for disabled people. Olga Mikhailenko to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, acting as Attorney General of Ukraine, minister of internal affairs of Ukraine for the release of the premises of the Central and Other Committees of the Communist Party of Ukraine from armed gang formations and forcing them to be held accountable. Andrija Mishchenka is acting as Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Economic Development and Trade of Ukraine for the elimination of the existing corruption scheme in the Ministry of Economic Development and Trade of Ukraine during the administration of Igor Prasolov and the involvement of the guilty in the established legal responsibility. Valerija Černjakov to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine, head of the Kyiv District State Administration for the creation of appropriate infrastructure in the village of Zabrija Kyiv-Svetoshin district of Kyiv region. Victoria Bullach, acting as Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on the application of measures for the release of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of Ukraine at the address of the city of Kiev, the street of Borisoglibsk, 7 from illegal paramilitary formations and the cessation of persecution of members of the party. Roman Shugal under the responsibilities of the Attorney General of Ukraine, head of the Poltava District State Administration, to take action to protect the rights and legitimate interests of the inhabitants of the Narijan Rural Council of the Seminavian region of the Poltava region in part of the establishment of the border with the Selechan Rural Council. Roman Shugal is under the responsibilities of the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the use of procuratorial measures regarding the illegal removal of land from the village of the Miracles of the Black Sea Region and the protection of their rights and legitimate interests. Jury Bublika under the responsibility of the Attorney General of Ukraine for the gross violation of environmental legislation by the Public Shareholders Association of the Transnational Financial and Industrial Petroleum Company Ukritatnafta, the creation of the environmental disaster zone of the Kremencucci region in the production of the evaporator pond, ignoring decisions of central and district authorities on its disposal for several decades. Alexander Onishchenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine foresaw a subsidy to the local budgets for the implementation of the socio-economic development measures of Mironowski, Boguslavski, Kagarlic, Rokitnjansk region of the Kyiv region in the 2014 review of the state budget of Ukraine. Alexander Onishchenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine for the implementation of the Ukrainian Law on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster, in part of the provision of free nutrition for children in Boguslawski, Kagarlic, Mironivski, Rokitanski and other areas of the Kyiv region. Olega Lalashka, acting as Attorney General of Ukraine for violating the criminal conduct of treason against those who called for participation in the so - called Crimean referendum, took part in his organization and conducted it. Jurya Orotyuka to Prime Minister of Ukraine, temporarily acting as Director General of the Ucroborprom State Concert for the immediate suspension of the supply of military equipment to the Russian Federation and the review of all military contracts. Jurija Orotyuka to the Head of the Security Service of Ukraine to ensure access to the archives of the Ukrainian Security Service and to publish data on persons who have cooperated with the authorities of the Soviet Union and who have been or are in the public service in Ukraine and other socially significant positions. Vasil Pazinjak to the head of the Supreme Qualifications Commission of Judges of Ukraine, acting as Attorney General of Ukraine for the purpose of examining the existence of numerous violations of the rules of material and procedural law during the conduct of the investigation and the prosecution of criminal proceedings No. 760/2786/13k (1-6/2012) on the charge of a citizen named Vitali Macovecki in organizing a robbery attack on a citizen of Boldiriev, taking appropriate action to restore justice and attract the guilty to the responsibility established by the Ukrainian legislation. Victor Gubar to the acting Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on the use of appropriate response measures to complete the investigation of criminal cases related to the operation of the Open Shareholders Association "Silver Rajagrotechservis". Victor Gubar to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, acting as Attorney General of Ukraine for the improper investigation of the Chernigian City Department of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in the Chernigiv area of crimes committed by a group of radically-manned persons in Montenegro in February 2014. Oleg Pankević, acting as Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine for the purpose of serving as Consul General of Ukraine in Chicago, Andrew Praednik. Oleg Pankević to the President of the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine on the depriving Sergey Glazieryev of the status of foreign member of the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine. Sergia Vlasenka to the Attorney General's Office of Ukraine on the criminalization of the judges of the Pecher District Court of Kyiv, who make notoriously wrong decisions. Sergia Vlasenka to the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Ukrainian Security Service, the Ukrainian Attorney General’s Office for the Stopping of the Januković family’s corrupt weapons at the Ministry of Health of Ukraine. Olga Mikhailenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the allocation of funds from the State budget of Ukraine necessary for the completion of the construction of an underwater pipeline to a town-type village called Novorontsovka Herssonska District. Irina Spirina is under the responsibility of the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the use of procuratorial measures for the release of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of Ukraine at the address: the city of Kiev, the street of Borisoglibsk, 7 from illegal paramilitary formations and the cessation of persecution of members of the party. Sergey Balandin is under the responsibility of the Attorney General of Ukraine for the lack of response by the authorities of the Prosecutor's Office and the State Administration of the Dnipropetrovsk Region regarding the violation of land legislation and the illegal allocation of land to the Welfare Society and the return of these lands to the State Enterprise Agroceh "Jewtoričanski" of the Petuhata District of Dnipropetrov. Sergey Balandin, acting as Attorney General of Ukraine, the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine for the Verification of Economic Activities of the Yellowwater Communion Company, on the fact that there is an illegal collection of debt for the non-delivery of heat to residents of the city of Yellow Waters who are separated from the centralized heating network according to the acts. Igor Rybakova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine about the wrong one. on the proper provision of accommodation for the citizens of Gordnian, Koropsky, Koryukovsky, Novgorod-Sieverski, Seminovian, Sosnické and Storski district of Chernigiv region with compressed balloon gas. Leonidas Dacenka is under the responsibility of the Attorney General of Ukraine for the illegal transfer of land to the Kanów District Department of Land Resources and to the Kaniv District State Administration. Leonidas Dacenka is under the responsibility of the Attorney General of Ukraine for transferring from the State to the private use of the former head of the Kaniv district administration Alexia Hici. Maria Matios to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the situation of the beating up of a City Council member, the representative of the Anti-Corruption Committee, Maidan Yuri Lisnitz. Oleg Bukhovtsa to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, head of the Kharkiv District State Administration for the conservation of the teaching facility – Kharkiv Automobile Technology, providing him with a government order for the training of younger specialists in 2014-2016, according to the proposed scope of the technology, as well as the maintenance of the technical building as the property of the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine. And the last request by Oleg Bukhovts to the head of the Ukrainian State Land Agency for the transfer of land to the citizens of the village of Artemiska is two hectares away from a settlement in the territory of the Artemian Rural Council of the Pechensky region of the Kharkiv region, with further transfer to the ownership of the private agriculture. These are all the questions that have come from the national deputies of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-28-m0.u3	Dear colleagues! I'm asking the secretariat to make an announcement so that all the deputies will return to the session room. We're going to make a decision now. Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. Please prepare yourself for making decisions. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, the strike faction insists that one of the first issues be considered is the statement of National MP Sergio Mikolaiovich Averchenka, who, according to the first part of the second part of article 81 of the Constitution of Ukraine, "On the Status of the People's Deputy" also asks the Supreme Council to support his application for credentials. I ask therefore, my fellow Members, that we do not have an optional body, but this is a serious and responsible work. So please sit down, dear fellows! I told the secretariat to call all the deputies. Let's do it while the colleagues come along, national deputy Kanovec. Please. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-28-m0.u4	Alexander Valentinovich, thank you. I have an offer for the Presidium to get us back to work on Friday the way we used to. The MP's request to read from 12.30 to 13.00 before the "Variable" because we are cooling down the Chamber of Deputies now and therefore we do not have that number of deputies to review the laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-28-m0.u5	Thanks for the offer. Dear colleagues, I think we will consider it on the following Friday. The only thing is: there's the Law of Rules, we need it then. I would ask the regulatory committee to amend this law so that we can work in this way. Besides, my fellow Members, I understand that not so many deputies today are, unfortunately, too many, because last night's events had a negative impact on today's Parliament. But I hope that the patriots of Ukraine will ensure the smooth and effective work of our Parliament and will no longer be provoked. Please turn on the microphone of the national MP Soboljev. And I see another hand -- I'll also give you a chance to speak. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-28-m0.u6	Dear Alexander Valentinovich, distinguished colleagues! Today, there is a draft of the Amnesty Law. But there's a second bill, which actually went as one whole -- it's (4525) to amend the Criminal Enforcement Code of Ukraine to adapt the legal status of those condemned to European standards. He's ready. We've even been given the conclusions of the committee. If this is possible, put it in the same way, since these laws are binding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-28-m0.u7	I don't deny it. Let us see how much the Supreme Council today has the opportunity to make responsible decisions. So that we don't erase this law from the order of the day by ineffective voting. Please turn on the microphone of the Zarubinsky People’s Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-28-m0.u8	Thank you. Dear Alexander Valentine's Day, dear colleagues, we are gradually entering the normal area, the normal format of Parliament's work. And so I would like to say about this thing, Tuesday we were given a plan or a schedule for the whole week, and it's important that we be able to figure out what the questions are Wednesday, Thursday, Friday. And there it was said that on Friday there would be "an hour of questions and answers to the government." I realize that there was actually a whole day of questions and answers to the government yesterday, but I would like it to be simple on the following Friday, which is called an axiom, which is not to be proved, and that is understandable. But since today was supposed to be an hour of questions about the rule of law in the country, I wanted to ask this question, maybe it's a rhetorical question. Maybe someone gave us an analysis of what Alexander Valentinovich just said about yesterday's events, how our different neighbors in the West, the East, the European Union are reacting to attempts to capture.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-28-m0.u9	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-28-m0.u10	How do they react? To give some information to law enforcement authorities about trying to capture legitimate government authorities, not in terms of the findings, but in terms of responding to these actions, whether they are considered to be illegal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-28-m0.u11	Dear colleagues, I think you understand the answer to this rhetorical question. I will say that even during the hard opposition in Maidan, we have never put ourselves in charge of taking parliament to prevent the legitimacy of power in Ukraine. At the same time, you pointed out that one of the first decisions I had to make was to remove the fences that separated Parliament from the people. The Ukrainian Parliament is open to all. What's more, I think we're organizing a process with you when anyone who wants to go to Parliament can visit him. And that's normal practice. Another question that a lot of people, you know, we don't have a room, including his upper deck. But we're also organizing this process. At the same time, once again, what I want to say is that Parliament is open, that Parliament does not invite the Ministry of Internal Affairs to defend itself, is armed and so on, and you see it all the time when you come to Parliament. This does not mean that Parliament can be stormed, humiliated, and so forth. I repeat, it is precisely that the Russian Federation broadcasts there appeared just minutes before these provocations began that this was an organized provocation and provocation directed against Ukraine, organized by the aggressors and those who have actually solved military actions against our country today. Dear colleagues, I understand that Deputy Kaplin, and we can (well, I'll give you my word as well) go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-28-m0.u12	Dear Alexander Valentinovich! Dear colleagues! Look at the injustice that is taking place in our lives. According to article 41 of the Labour Code, if an ordinary Ukrainian citizen, a peasant, a worker, a miner did not come to work for three hours, he is virtually out of his job, he is thrown out of the business, and he becomes unemployed. There are individual national deputies who, during the entire work of this vocation, the Supreme Council of this vocation at work were once or twice. That's why you know, our political power, I personally, have introduced appropriate bills, prepared appropriate bills, amendments to the Constitution of Articles 81 and 4, 5 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine, changes to the Rules under which the Ukrainian People's Deputy, after missing five sessions during the session, is terminated.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-28-m0.u13	Let me finish this interesting talk.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-28-m0.u14	I ask you to speed up the process of issuing me forms to collect 150 signatures of national deputies for the next constitutional amendment. And we will put an end to this ignoring of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and ignoring the wishes and demands of ordinary Ukrainian citizens. And I'm convinced that after the presidential election, we should be asking a sharp question about the election of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Let the voters at the polling stations draw their conclusions and evaluate the hundreds of deputies who do not go to work and deprive Parliament of the ability to control the situation of reform and bring Ukraine to prosperity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-28-m0.u15	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, as soon as you receive these letters, come to me, and I'll be the first to sign these signed letters. Please, Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-28-m0.u16	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear colleagues, national deputies, I have just been out on the street, talking to Ukrainian citizens who have come to express their position on the issues that exist in Ukraine. I want to tell you, I'm looking at some faces that are smiling. You know, living outside this room is completely different than living in this room. Many of those who are now sitting there smiling seem to be just sitting here, breaking away from the ground, you don't feel what people are living and what they want. And I particularly want to address the MPs from the new coalition that have been elected, driven by the Yanukovich gang, who have elected and liberated Ukraine from this "infection" of a thief who has killed people who have robbed the country. Guys, the revolution's not over. To switch faces to each other, that's not what people demanded, that's not what people died for. And that's why you cover up what war goes on and don't do that, don't make that decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-28-m0.u17	Let me finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-28-m0.u18	Covering up the war and not solving the problems that society demands is a road to nowhere. No war cancels the need for a illustration of government officials when today appoints those who served the Yanukovich gang yesterday, no war removes the day - to - day issue of the abolition of parliamentary immunity, no war removes the day - to - day issue of the building of responsible and transparent authority. And that's why I want to go to my fellow parliamentarians. Yesterday we -- me, there are other fellow MPs who stopped people, today we'll stop. And we can't stop tomorrow. You know why? Bo's people. The revolution liberated the masses. People realized that they were running the country today, not you and me, and people today finally realized that it was him who was running the country. And I want the MPs to feel the same way that life has changed, people have changed, Ukraine has changed. And we can't live the way we did before the revolution. And that's why, but at the same time, I'm talking to those who are provoking Parliament, who are calling for the authorities to take over -- it's pouring water on Putin's mill, it's pouring water on the FSB, because Putna's around the world saying that there's no power in Ukraine, and some gangsters are running with guns. And that's why, Ukrainian citizens, when you go out to defend your interests. You can yell at me, "Regulatory," and when you're out on the pitchforks, you'll all be hiding behind my back. So be quiet.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-28-m0.u19	I'm asking you to calm down. Oleg Valeriyovich, finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-28-m0.u20	That's why I say, Ukraine is a radical change, but Parliament has to work as the only legitimate authority in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-28-m0.u21	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we're starting to have a long way to go. Let's take the Peace MP of Liberty and risk. Hanna Mikolayevna, let us give you our word. Yes, it is. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-28-m0.u22	Alexander Mirny, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Alexander Valentine's Day, I urge you, let's work, not run a presidential campaign. Because when there's a minutes and there's nothing to talk about: about how young, bright and heroic I am, and all of us behind my narrow shoulders are hiding from the crowd -- five minutes, sorry, we're really turning Parliament into a mess at this point. That is why the faction of the All-Ukrainian Union of Freedom requires, I emphasize, to keep order and we have important governmental issues, not the question of the pyar of individuals. Those who don't go to the session have to answer, we have to look at it. We have to look at the behavior of the communists if we're talking about a hall. We need to consider responsibility. Thank you, Alexander Valentinovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-28-m0.u23	Dear colleagues, thank you for speaking. I'm talking to all my colleagues. I'm giving you the opportunity to finish the speech, but the end of the speech shouldn't be twice as much as the rule of the speech itself. So I'm asking you to say that no one has spoken out of opposition, National Deputy Herman, please. And we'll make decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-28-m0.u24	Dear Valentin Aleksandrovich!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-28-m0.u25	Alexander Valentinovich, well, that's the way it is.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-28-m0.u26	Excuse me. Dear Alexander Valentine's Day, I ask you not to be appointed in this Hall of Provokators and Patriots, for which we have chosen you. That one. The other one. I ask you to put to the vote the question of the resignation of Minister Habakkuk. Because there has been a political assassination in the country, and as long as there is no investigation, it is not possible for a person to work in the Ministry of Internal Affairs and have an impact on this investigation. [[B in m in s a l in]] I very much ask you not to repeat the mistakes that have been made. Remember how you demanded Zacharychenk's resignation. If your predecessor had responded in time, perhaps not so many people had been killed in Maidan. Thank you. And I hope you'll listen.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-28-m0.u27	Dear colleagues, I will answer this request from the MP. Take it easy. In the event that the parliamentary commission admits a violation by any official, deputy minister, minister, who else, Parliament will not hesitate and make decisions on dismissal. Now, once again, without investigating this issue, we can't deal with you. The commission will make a report. In order for the commission to conduct an objective investigation, we have included representatives from the public, including those requiring an investigation and interested in the objectivity of the investigation. And according to the committee's conclusion, the Cabinet of Ministers will make a decision. Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'm asking for a vote, I've announced it. There was an opportunity for the deputies to express themselves so that people could approach the hall. And I ask, Your Honor, to support the statement made by the Averchenk People's Deputies, the Strike faction, regarding the formation of parliamentary powers. Please vote. [[10:57:25]] For-198 The decision is not taken. I see that there is no desire in Parliament for Mr. Averchenk to be deprived of his powers, which is a second option, which is also a failure. Dear colleagues, we have questions about the agenda, including the organization of the work of our Central Electoral Commission. I would very much ask, fellow honourable Members, that we should be working on this issue right now, because there is very little time left before the presidential and local council elections. We have questions not only about human resources decisions but also about changes to the Law on Elections of the Supreme Council of the ARC Crimea, local and rural village councils. When we do not make that decision in days, unfortunately, the local council elections will be held in such a troubled regime. This is our responsibility with you, Parliament, and we must make decisions. Dear colleagues, draft Decree (4562) on the permanent termination of the terms of office of a member of the Central Electoral Commission. I would ask Justice Minister Peter Dmitrovitch to brief you on this matter. I'll see if there are no votes, we'll make the right decisions with you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-28-m0.u28	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. For your consideration, the draft Ordinance on the short-term suspension of the terms of office of a member of the Central Electoral Commission in accordance with article 85, paragraph 21, of the Constitution of Ukraine, of the Supreme Council decides: To release the member of the Central Electoral Commission, Mr. Kopilenko Aleksandra Ljubimovitch, in connection with his application for credentials. The draft decree was passed by the relevant committee and received a positive decision to support it in the session room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-28-m0.u29	Thank you. David Vazievich, briefly. Please. It supports this decision. Please sit down, Your Honor. Dear colleagues, I ask you to support the Hall and this will be a test vote for the further form of the Supreme Council's work. Please support the draft Decree (4562) on the early termination of the terms of office of a member of the Central Electoral Commission. I ask, taking into account the Minister's report, to support this project by voting on it as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[11:00:23]] For 203 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, by factions, please let us see how it works. Region Party 2, Fatherland 77, Impact 31, Economic Development 22, Sovereign Ukraine 19, Freedom 33, Company 0 and non-factional 19. Dear colleagues, let's consult. I realize that many deputies today have not come to the hall in connection with yesterday’s evening events. I hope we don't have that kind of problem in the future. I then announce, honourable colleagues, on the further form of Parliamentary work. Now we're going to go through traditional, different questions, give people's MPs a chance to talk about their speeches, and we're going to bring parliament together next week on Tuesday. I hope that all the fundamental issues, the personnel issues involved in the changes to electoral legislation, the amnesty issues that Parliament is obliged to vote on, the other strategic issues, we will be able to consider within one day of Tuesday. And then, according to the calendar plan, Parliament will be able to work in the districts, meeting with the electorates, getting orders and orders for further work. In the event of an emergency, and we're working in this mode, we're going to get an extra parliament. That's why I'm asking Ruslan Volodymyrovich, who's going to close the session after the Vizna meeting, to stress once again that Parliament will continue its work next Tuesday at 10 a.m. Please, Ruslan Volodymyrovich, please conduct "Vizne" in the work of the Supreme Council. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-28-m0.u30	Ladies and gentlemen, before asking the question of "Rizzne," please sign up for the speeches. May I have the floor of the People's Deputy Kotelak? I'd like to prepare for the National Deputy of Kydi.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-28-m0.u31	123 constituency, Lydia Kotelak, Fatherland faction. Dear fellow national MPs! I'm the head of the climate change, environmental education subcommittee of the Committee on Environmental Policy and the Elimination of the Consequences of the Chernobyl disaster, and I'm asking you to restore social justice and to return to the people the specialized hunting residences of senior government officials who have been effectively alienated from state property for over 13 years. Thus, in 2000-2001, the subordination of the Presidential Authority of Ukraine's affairs was unlawfully transferred to former hunting farms, former members of the C.C.P.C.P.S.P.S.A. Zalyssie and Bilozerski, in the Kyiv region of Sinjoira, in Ivano-Francchi. In 2009, according to President Viktor Yushchenko’s decree, these state hunting habitats were reorganized into the National Natural Parks. However, the government’s administration of the affairs of the President of Ukraine sabotaged the execution of these decrees. Moreover, during his reign Janukovic illegally acquired other territories – the Inter-Igoria and the Dniprovsko-Teterovska hunting farm in the Kyiv region, where he created his personal residences. All these hunting residences of Yanukovic were outside the control of law enforcement agencies, without access to journalists and public organizations. Thanks to Majdan, the truth has also been revealed about the laundering of government budgets for various buildings and repairs in these residences, barbaric and uncontrolled hunting. It became clear that by the end of the 2000's, there had been illegal imports of bison brought into the Red Book of Ukraine. It is worth noting that environmental scientists, the public conservation organizations of Ukraine have repeatedly raised the issue of the return of data from the hunting habitats of the people of Ukraine in the status of national natural parks. However, the authorities at that time led Yanuković to the last did their best to keep the overcrowded. With this in mind, please take appropriate steps to fully implement the Ukrainian Presidential Decree of 2009 on the establishment at the site of the state hunting sites of Zalyssie, Biloozer and Sinjora National Parks with the same names, passing them on to the rule of the Ukrainian Min-Nature. Taking this opportunity, I want to go to the media and report that on April 3, together with environmentalists and public activists, our subcommittee has planned.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-28-m0.u32	please finish the dates.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-28-m0.u33	Our subcommittee planned to visit the Zalyssian National Natural Park. So, distinguished journalists, I invite you to take this trip to see for yourself the state of this natural reserve fund and to tell our citizens about the true wealth that belongs only to them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-28-m0.u34	I'd like to introduce you to the words of the People's Deputy Kaidu. To prepare for the people's deputy of Melnik. Kaida gives the word to the Pharion People’s Deputy. Please. People's deputies, while Mrs. Irina prepares for the presentation, I will inform you once again that the next meeting will take place on April 01 at 10 a.m. It's not a joke. Please, Mrs. Irina.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-28-m0.u35	Sad. This better be a joke. Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen! Irina Pharion, the city of Lviv. Today, however, I am not going to be the voice of Western Ukraine at all, but I am going to be the voice of East Ukraine and South. And my word is addressed primarily to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, who unfortunately is not at our meeting right now. During this week, we've heard unprecedented speeches by the Putinian political parties, which long ago in this room should be renamed the Putin political party. I'm talking about a party of regions that have long been called a party of killers, or a bloody party, as well as a party of Communists. At least that'll be completely consistent with your point of view, and you'll stop using word receipts that absolutely don't hide your Ukrainian content. So, your honor, I would like to announce the address of the Archbishop of Poltava and Kharkiv to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in view of the unprecedented increase in Ukrainian phobia in the south and east of Ukraine. Of course, you and I tried to stop this Ukrainianophobia by voting in favour of repealing the Kiwalov-Keleščenka Act. 232 deputies with a sense of high human national dignity demonstrated their stand. Instead, the Head of the Supreme Council did not promise or sign this law. In view of this, the Ukrainian heads of the East and South Ukraine do not take this position and address, in particular, the Head of the Supreme Council in order to end the linguistic vacchanalism throughout Ukraine. So I'm going to read a quote from the archbishop of Kharkiv and Poltava Igor Isichenko. "In recent weeks, the faithful Kharkiv-Poltavian diocese of the Ukrainian Autocal Orthodox Church, whose parishes are located in eastern Ukraine, have been living under the constant terror of the diversified groups that have come from the Russian Federation, and of the criminal and criminalized political criminals held for the purpose of pro-Russian orientation by funds from abroad. The paradox was that the Russian - speaking part of our population was constantly being protected. Actually, it's time for the population to become a nation that really needs protection only from forced manipulation of its moods from abroad. At that time, the Ukrainian majority of the inhabitants of Kharkiv, Donetsk, and Lugansk region are victims of gang attacks and constant psychological pressure. Despite the actual breakup of diplomatic relations with the road regime, prokremlov, anti - Ukrainian propaganda, including some budget officials, is almost without hindrance. People die every day. So far, units as victims of gang attacks, but already tens and hundreds of them are from cardiovascular diseases and other diseases caused by psychological terror. In human places it becomes dangerous to communicate in English, to have national symbols, and to express thoughts that are different from slogans.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-28-m0.u36	Please finish the dates.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-28-m0.u37	imposed by Russian media. And not just Russian. As an archdiocese, I'm authorized to hand you the clearance requirement. Kharkiv-Poltava diocese. First. Prior to the harmonization of Ukraine’s relationship with the Russian Federation, the Russian Federation introduced a visa regime for citizens of the Russian Federation to enter Ukraine. The other one. Banning the activities of political parties, public organizations, if it is contrary to the Constitution of Ukraine, calls into question the administrative integrity of the State and fosters international hostility. (We've got two of these damn parties in the hall. At least it's a bunch of killers. Third. Release government officials, teachers, and other budget officials who use their posts for anti - Ukrainian propaganda. And the last. The voice of the students from Kharkiv University. At the universities of the East and the South, a terrible situation that only worsened after Maidan. When asked to give a lecture in English, you get the answer: "Don't tell me which language (they only have the right language) to speak." Today, appeals to the laws of the form of protest do not work. The situation in natural and technical faculties is particularly catastrophic.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-28-m0.u38	Mrs. Irina, if you don't mind, we will. Then we'll give Eugene the Melnik a few minutes to make it happen. We'll take away Eugene Melnik, and please continue.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-28-m0.u39	Nationalist students, at best, 2-3 people. Therefore, collective claims and complaints cannot be written. We're simply being killed methodically, trying to turn us into a flock of slaves of the Russian Empire. Majdan won, but we're still in the complete darkness of Moscow's occupation. And this cloud of Moscow occupation is centralized and concentrated here, in the upper terrarium as well. Our education system -- students from the east and the south -- almost destroyed, held up, stressed, because I know that very well, on individual teachers -- light rays in the effluent. However, according to the students onward, nationalistic youth are in the east and south. You'd see those students trying to dump Lenin's monument on the Freedom Square in Kharkiv. Students also write from the University of Donetsk, especially the National Technical University of Donetsk. "Learn on a contract, get a second higher education. I resent the fact that students do not accept payments to Ukristok simply because they are written in Ukrainian. We are forced to fill us exclusively in Russian. Please save the Donetsk Ukrainians." Our task is to disintegrate Ukraine and start the process of Ukrainianization. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-28-m0.u40	Here's to National Deputy Shevchenka Alexander Oxentoyovich. Please be prepared by the people's representative of Rudzkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-28-m0.u41	Please pass the word to Orotyuk Yuri Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-28-m0.u42	Thank you. Please, Yuri Orotyuk!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-28-m0.u43	Yuri Orotyuk. The All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, Cherkaščina. Respectable Society! Under conditions of external annexation and instability of the state. When groups of provocative, separatist, diverse groups of the neighboring occupying country are in operation, the problem of allowing the population of Ukraine to use civilian weapons and ammunition is extremely urgent. This law long needed Ukraine. We need it now, especially at a time when more than 3 million firearms are illegally held in the hands of people in Ukraine. When every bandit and every official, for tens of thousands of prize weapons have today from the district inspector to the former head of the district government, and not every member of that party of Putin that we just talked about. Today, a Ukrainian citizen feels totally unprotected. He feels completely unprotected, both in the middle of a country where banditry flourishes and from external annexation. I and a group of Ukrainian national deputies, together with weapons experts, the Association of Arms Owners, have drafted the Civil Weapons and Ammunition Act. Unfortunately, this law is not registered by the Supreme Council of Ukraine because today it is a very strong so-called Mentovo Mafia, which controls the illegal circulation of weapons. And the Fifth Column, which wants when a Russian boot in a Russian occupation takes over Ukraine to keep the Ukrainians defenseless. I demand that this Civil Weapons and Ammunition Act be brought before the Supreme Council immediately. Today, the state has put outside the law millions of Ukrainians, who, when feeling threatened by the outside, have weapons. We can see that the so-called moon of voluntary surrender of arms and ammunition in conditions of external aggression has actually failed. And today the state either admits that three million Ukrainians who fought during the Dignity Revolution are criminals and will be killed by various special forces of the militia, or need to create legal mechanisms for legalizing the arms market. When the weapon is legal, each type of ammunition will be shot off when the weapons register is stored. I think we should immediately adopt the Civil Weapons and Ammunition Act. It's even more strange when the Ukrainian firm Ucrobronservis continues to place weapons, ammunition for much more serious -- in the Russian Federation. So I demand that yesterday our faction put this question before the vice-premier of Ukraine. I've been officially addressing the leadership of the state and the leadership of the Ucrobanprom. Today I asked the right question. We must immediately cease any supply of military equipment, dual-deal goods to the Russian Federation before the end of the military annexation and until we return all the sovereign parts of Ukraine. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-28-m0.u44	I would like to welcome you to the floor of the People's Deputy Rudzkowski. To prepare for the people's deputy, Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-28-m0.u45	Dear colleagues, you know, when you hear the latest speeches, it seems to me that we are not adequately aware of the situation that is taking place in the country. Before the threat of external aggression, at a time when the entire country must provide all necessary troops to help our military at the border, as the Montenegrins do, handing over all necessary services to the military. At that time, to calmly conduct our training in the summer military camps, we are now clarifying our relationship, trying to kill the wedge between East and West Ukraine again. Dear colleagues, we need to hear in Parliament people who live in Eastern Ukraine. I was in Kharkiv, meeting people. I invited Mr. Dragnibok to go and meet with the troops in Kharkiv to hear them. They want to live in the only great European mighty Ukraine, but their point of view is to make them feel worthy in our country. Let's take a break, let's give people in eastern Ukraine the language they want to speak, let's give them the opportunity to take the exams in the language they learn in the schools. Let us see to it that we preserve the whole state. Do we want to create provocations like yesterday, creating provocations that we had on First National, to split countries and to have Ukraine only on the west side of Dniper? I don't think we should let that happen. I also turn to the political forces that were in Midan. You put Mr. Habakkuk in office as Minister of the Interior. Please invite him to Midan, explain the relationship and no longer storm parliament, do not frighten the country, let the Ukrainian citizens see that the law enforcement system, the police are fighting corruption, the banditry, orderly, not clarifying their relationship with their former partners. Let's build a country, let's unite the country, not create what this country sees and sees the whole world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-28-m0.u46	May I have the floor of the People's Deputy Kirilenko. Please be prepared by the People's Deputy, Catherinechuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-28-m0.u47	Viacheslav Kirilenko, Party "For Ukraine!"The Fatherland." Dear voters, dear colleagues, now Ukraine is experiencing unprecedented times, at any moment, an attack by the Russian Federation and the army of the Russian Federation, which has been excavated on the southeast and northeast borders of Ukraine. At the same time, the inhabitants of Kharkiv, Lugansk, Donetsk, Zaporzik, Dnipropetrovsk, Hersonsk, Mikolaiiv, Odessa have maintained peace and full loyalty to the fact that Ukraine continues to be and will always be a territorially indivisible and whole Ukraine. So Ukraine is a lot different, but not as different as you thought in the Kremlin of Putin. All attempts to split up, disunite Ukrainians by any sign will experience and will surely suffer a final collapse. So in the South East, there are many Russian - speaking Ukrainians, so we have polyconfession, so there has been a big discussion of values so far. But all of these factors go to the other side, and in terms of values, the Ukrainian people are becoming more and more unique. Human rights and the rights of the people come to the fore, the Ukrainians of all parts of the West, and the East want to be citizens of a proud European country. That is why all Putin’s plans to be held captive because of internal occupation or external aggression will always be shattered, including in Crimea, where Ukrainian military have shown a pattern of how to hold on and fight for the honor of their flag, with the overwhelming forces of the aggressor. And that's why people like Julius Mamchure should be given leadership positions in the military, the Armed Forces, or maybe Colonel Julius Mamchure is the one to lead the newly created National Guard of Ukraine. That would be the right step on the part of the new authority. The Majlis of the Crimean Tatar people must receive support at all levels from the Ukrainian authorities. Here in the Supreme Council, the Majlis needs a separate room and every opportunity to work together in law enforcement. At the Cabinet of Ministers, a representation of the Mabelis of the Crimean Tatar people is to be formed. The same future new president should make a deal with the Majlis and interact with the Majlis of the Crimean Tatar people on all criminal matters. Because Ukrainians and Crimean Tatars who do not recognize the occupation power in Crimea will not take Russian passports, this is the basis for restoring the sovereignty of Ukraine over the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. And these actions.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-28-m0.u48	Please finish the dates.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-28-m0.u49	And these actions need to be done urgently. Thank you for your attention. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-28-m0.u50	May I have the floor of the People's Deputy, Catherinechuk? Prepare the people's deputy Dubnevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-28-m0.u51	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honorable National MPs, distinguished radio listeners, respected people of Ukraine! You all remember how we were elected by the government. And on this stand was a candidate then in the prime ministers of Ukraine, Arsenij Yatsenuk, and I asked him the question: When will the Association Agreement be signed? And so the political part of this covenant was signed within three weeks of its being in office. But that means we need to change. We're starting to change our approach to the demands of the citizens who said, "We want to change the system of power. We want decentralization. We want to control the power." And that's why we expect a proposal to be heard on Wednesday in the Cabinet of Ministers in the form of a concept of changing the self-government system. The elimination of administration, the elimination of district councils, I think we need to do this, and it's getting closer to the people they want. The second question I can't stop on is the issue of integrity. Why are we delaying? When we were in opposition for four years before this bandit regime, four years ago we didn't have it, we were used to working without it. We were beaten like protestors, we were arrested for no reason at all, but this issue has to be resolved. And if Turkinov says today that the law is for everyone, then we start with ourselves, and next week we accept the constitutional changes, and we eliminate the parliamentary integrity. It will only be limited as it is in European Union countries. And the last. Elections are coming up, both presidential and local elections are coming up. I'd like to stop at the local election. We already have such a tradition that when the mayor of the city is chosen, he gives birth to, let's say, marry, go to the army, return, and nothing changes, and this measure does not change. Only because politicians have established a system that allows for political bribery. We have the measure of choosing, working with one social group, the Greeks, there, everything else they can do, there, for example, 20-30 percent, and other people just out of the spotlight on this policy. So I suggest you change the system. Set up a system of duality of city mayors. And this will enable most of the mayor’s people to choose and take political responsibility. I'd like to support this next week, let's say, not a new idea, but it will benefit the very responsibility of the electorate and the responsibility of the electorate. Thank you for your attention. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-28-m0.u52	May I have the floor of the People's Deputy Dubnevic? Prepare the national MP, Tomenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-28-m0.u53	Good afternoon, distinguished voters, distinguished Mr. Head, honourable deputies! Jaroslav Dubnevich, UDA faction, 120 constituency, Lvivščina. Today I was forced to turn to you. From us, the legitimate body does more than expect a solution to the global problems of defence and security. Many other social issues are equally painful and need solutions. Today, we, the people’s deputies, have registered Bill 4341. This is about making changes to the Ukrainian Customs Code for the establishment of transit routes for road transport -- this is a very painful issue for residents of all border areas. Today's customs code, by which the owners of unscathed cars are forced to cross the border every five days, not only creates social dissatisfaction. Border lines create delays for all transit cargo, including humanitarian aid. In our Bill 4341, we raise this standard to 30 days. The residents of the border are under constant impression that the state is doing everything to make their lives worse. Regrettably, most of the possibilities of cross - border employment are related to employment outside Ukraine. Hence, delay in resolving the issue now that the authorities have changed is unacceptable. I call on the representatives of the Government to support a bill to remove obstacles to the enjoyment of Ukrainian citizens' rights to own and use their property, transportation. I ask for the support of Bill 4341 of all factions of Parliament. I appeal to Parliament's leadership to promote its definition as urgent after obtaining the necessary conclusions provided for by the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules. And one more question, distinguished national MPs. We certainly need to prepare and submit to the session room, to register a bill on a simple, accessible response of national deputies when they do not exercise their parliamentary powers. In order for the electorate to choose a senior deputy who has become a "cart" and does not perform tasks in front of the electorate to be called off. Members who do not come here for a session to vote here at this difficult time for Ukraine must be released. And they should be replaced by the national electorates who are willing to work for the country of Ukraine. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-28-m0.u54	May I have the floor of the People's Deputy Tomenka. Please prepare for MP Mikhailenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-28-m0.u55	Dear colleagues, I would like to draw attention to, I think, a fundamental fundamental problem that is not being removed from the order of the daily Ukraine, is the problem of protecting territorial integrity, the problem of protecting the country's unity. While we were here discussing how the Supreme Council was working, itAR-TASS extended the address of Viktor Yanukovic. You know, this man, the former president of Ukraine in exile, who is in Rostov. I don't know if he's alive or if someone's speaking for him? But the travel texts, which are spoken on behalf of Viktor Yanukovitch, are not just dangerous, but they are texts by which our law enforcement authorities should open additional cases. And I'm calling on the Attorney General's Office to open an additional case against Viktor Yanukovic for inflaming international hostility, for trying to split Ukraine up and question its territorial integrity. Who hasn't read, I'll say that the language is to say that Viktor Janukovic said that it is necessary not to hold presidential elections, but to hold local referendums so that each region and region can determine what they were given to do, whether they should be in Ukraine, Russia or elsewhere. So the idea of separatism, the idea of the split of the country, the idea of the destruction of Ukraine as a state remains, unfortunately, key in the plans of Vladimir Putin and, in this case, of Yanukovic, and his team, which is now in the territory of the Russian Federation. And I have no doubt that all the efforts, the proposals, the initiatives that come from there are the kind of messages, the initiatives that are unfortunately supported by certain political forces in Ukraine. Apart from these legal political forces, there are also some radical groups, and it does not seem strange to me that when there are very important events in Ukraine and in Parliament, there are some provocations in these events, and they give an opportunity in both Ukrainian media and Russian media to show that the new authority does not control the situation in Ukraine, which is in the new government, as Janukovic writes here, or as Putin writes in Yanukovic's text, there is anarchy and bardak. That's why I think we should all understand that the actions that make the television picture for Vladimir Putin and the outcast Janukovic are actions that benefit Russia and those against Ukraine. Instead, the good news is that we finally got a bill yesterday on expanding the area of access to information, and I think we'll soon appreciate this bill. This is a bill that completely takes away all secrets from the Ukrainian State, from the Ukrainian authorities, you can get access to any decision of the public authorities, a decision on privatization, on land issues, on other issues. Therefore, I hope that in carrying out the President’s duties, this will be signed immediately and that we will work under this law. Convinced, we will protect our country, so shame on the separatists, glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-28-m0.u56	May I have the floor of the People's Deputy Mikhailenko. To prepare for the People's Deputy of Marchinkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-28-m0.u57	Thank you. Olga Mikhailenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Hersonian. Dear colleagues! The electorate, the new old oligarch power, has brought the country to its full collapse, see what is being done in southern Ukraine? Their free policy has turned the left-hand side of Hersonian into a front-line zone. Tell me, does the Acting President, Prime Minister, know this? Why didn't they ever show up in Crimea, in Herson? Or the Secretary of Defense didn't tell you that people are dying, they sound like explosions, nobody's fighting us, but there's blood. On the steppe, they collect remains, heads, legs, hands, torsos, and the commanders say that the teachings are coming. Why are such teachings worth the lives of young people? What have our cities become: Kahovka, New Kahovka, Tsurupinsk? Blocks with questionable people who humiliate others by violating the Constitution of Ukraine, but you are thus pushing psychosis, you better admit that you are unable to build, so you are destroying our state. Tell me, what is this Head of Administration at Herson, headed by the Right Sector. What kind of power is that? You took it, answer me, why did you allow irresponsible people to lead the regions? Why is it that in all the structures armed with teeth, people who don't allow a normal person to pass by peacefully? The Hersonians feel vulnerable to your hawks. We demand the leadership of the State: make them feel. The people don't believe you. You won't go far in the heat of animosity. The Acting Head of the Herson City of Nikolaenko is calling the leadership of the State, and some secessionist is said to report that he is on Putin in the media. Is he inadequate? The good people, the communists of Hersonish demand that the authorities ensure the integrity of the country, peace, tranquillity, work, protection and pay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-28-m0.u58	I would like to welcome you to the floor of the People's Deputies of Marchinkov. Prepare the national MP Ilik.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-28-m0.u59	Ruslan Marcinkov, All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Honorary colleagues, Ukrainians, regrettably, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, including the Party of Regions and Communists, failed Ukraine’s Act to amend some Ukrainian legislation to ensure that citizens have unimpeded access to the coastline of water objects for general use. The adoption of this bill would allow for the cessation of illegal restrictions on Ukrainian access to the coastline of water objects and in particular beach areas in the occupied Ukrainian Crimea and not only to the coastline. This bill is the execution of a program for the protection of Ukrainians of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union and the expectation of millions of our citizens. That is, the State's ensuring equal rights for all citizens and the same observance of the law by all citizens, regardless of the level of their assets or their ownership of power. Prepared before the occupation of the Crimea by Russian invaders, but not included in the agenda of the previous sessions for nearly a year. And now it is disgracefully ruined by the oligarchs, the communists, and the representatives of the Party of Regions in the Supreme Council who do not want justice and a real fight against corruption. The bill deals with such a sensitive issue as the free access of citizens to the shores of waters whose rights have been insolently and unpunishedly violated for years by local feuds for the shameful inaction of law enforcement agencies. This problem has become a social problem especially in areas where citizens enjoy mass rest: on the coasts of the Black Sea and the Azova Seas, on the shores of Dnipra, on the Right, and on every village, village, town, river, lake, and water. The proposed bill prohibits restrictions on general water use in connection with the provision of coastal protection lanes, including beach areas, at least 100 meters for the seas, 50 meters for large rivers and water, and 25 meters for small rivers for the use of legal or physical persons. It also foresees that the restriction on such access is a reason to stop using these lanes. I'd like the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union to report that an updated bill is about to be registered. And we are addressing all the national MPs, the public, the Ukrainians, who are very important to this bill, and we are obliged to accept it to show our Ukrainian Crimea that we can give positive signals, and to the Ukrainians that we are really fighting corruption and are really ready to change our state today. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-28-m0.u60	May I have the floor of the People's Deputy Ilika. To prepare for the people's MP Mishchenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-28-m0.u61	Roman Ilik, 121 constituency, Fatherland faction, Drogbychina. Dear Ukrainians, dear fellow MPs! I'm going to talk today about national security, national security in that part of what needs to be done right now. First thing you had to do. We needed to ban all separatist ideologies from doing so by law. The second is to reform the army. The third is to pay due attention to the patriotic upbringing of the special composition of the Armed Forces and the power structures. And the fourth is about a new information policy. So, in general, by supporting the initiatives of the president of Ukraine, the government, the RNB, I would like to point out that, in part of the ban on separatist sentiments and ideologies that prevail today in Ukraine, it is important to urgently adopt the law on the prohibition and criminal responsibility of pro-Russian and other anti-Ukraine separatist ideologies, parties and social organizations, which directly lead to secessionism and foreign aggression in the country. These are structures, many of whom systematically display their anti - Ukrainian and anti - Ukrainian positions and conduct their separatist activities in the regions. As for the second one. Reforming the army. Why not take the fine experience of countries such as Switzerland and carry out this reform in the Ukrainian army in this way? And that's what we need to do first of all at the legislative level. Third. To ensure the proper national patriotic upbringing of the special composition of the forces and armies, to make it impossible for the disgraceful facts that took place in the middle of "Berkut," what we saw. And in such a way that the service in the Armed Forces and the military structures is accessible to those who practice primarily Ukrainian ideology, not anti - Ukrainian and anti - Ukrainian. Four. To adopt a new information policy by the Supreme Council of Ukraine that would make it impossible to operate in Ukraine’s anti - state media. Especially pro-Russian television stations, radio stations, programs, films that undermine Ukraine’s sovereignty and integrity. It's now going to make the Ukrainian media effective. And they should be a powerful tool for Ukrainian propaganda and effective counter-promotion regarding the Russian aggressor. Friends! We need to win the war. Information war in the South. And in the era of telecommunications, information wars today are equal to wars and military competitions. We will surely win. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-28-m0.u62	May I have the floor of the People's Deputy Mishchenka. Prepare the National Deputy for Illenck. Turn on Mishchenka's microphone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-28-m0.u63	Dear Chairman, please give the floor to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Michael Golovk.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-28-m0.u64	Thank you. Please, Mikhaylo Golovko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-28-m0.u65	Mikhailo Golovko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, 164 constituency, Ternopolishte. Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday we passed a very important set of laws regarding the withdrawal of our nation from the economic crisis. From this deep crisis, where we were led by the previous authorities, the anti-national, oligarchic authorities, who destroyed the economy and our state by pillaging practically the country into the thread, leaving a hole in the budget -- 280 billion. We can only imagine the extent to which our country was looted. In principle, we saw them, we saw them in Medjugorje, we saw them in their houses where they kept gold and billions and millions of dollars in safes. So, of course, the situation that we've reached today, we must now adopt a number of radical bills that could fill the Ukrainian budget that could actually raise the Ukrainian economy. But economists always say that in times of crisis, it is usually necessary not to raise taxes but to reduce taxes. So we would be able to get out of the shadow that experts are now calculating that there are about 60 percent of Ukraine's economy in the shadows, and these costs are going to bring them back into state circulation. And, of course, this is how you fill the budget of Ukraine. So, of course, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union has registered a number of drafts that have been published for over a year. And we raise them up, constantly from the rostrum, we say that we need to look at them in Parliament. And it's these bills that will allow us to fill our budget. These are bills on the return of capitals in the registered Republic of Cyprus, offshore and other jurisdictions, which are just Bill 1248. The bill sets out the principles for the return of capital that are and are registered in the Republic of Cyprus and other offshore areas. We will, of course, be able to fill Ukraine's budget. Because we know that more than 72 billion dollars have been exported from Ukraine in the last two years. These are the funds that should go to re-arming the Ukrainian army, to infrastructure, to social services, to protect the needs of Ukrainians. And also Bill 1247, which we are constantly raising, is the Ukrainian law on the elimination of the deficit of the Ukrainian Pension Fund. The bill provides that the maximum pension may not exceed five minimum pensions. So let's put it this way, we're canceling out those specialties that have 50 and 100,000 dollars. Of course, Bill 1250 is about the elimination of private monopolies. It also destroys a system of economics that destroys competition, which prevents small and medium-sized businesses from developing, as is the case in European countries where the basic economy is small, medium-sized businesses occupy more than 60 percent. And the elimination of private monopolies will provide an opportunity and a boost to small and medium-sized businesses. That's why we demand that our bills be set up for the next plenary week, and we are able to consider them and approve them in Parliament. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-28-m0.u66	May I have the floor of the People's Deputy Illenka. To prepare for the people’s representative of Pavlovsk.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-28-m0.u67	Andrew Illenko, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, city of Kiev, 215 constituency. Dear voters, today we have a situation where the city of Kiev will finally have the election of the city’s head and city council on May 25. And we realize that Kiev was the main engine of our dignity revolution, and it was the Chinese who were the most active and active in all of these events. And today, in fact, we should not forget the demands that have been made and that have still been placed by the Chinese to resolve the complete restoration of self-government in Kiev, which has been destroyed by the criminal regime of Yanukovic, and the restoration of overall basic justice for the Chinese. Because it's very good that the result of a very difficult struggle has been able to appoint local elections in Kiev, but it's also important to remember that in Kiev district councils are to be reinstated, in due course completely arbitrarily cancelled, that elections to district councils should also take place. We understand, and there's a lot of speculation that it's going to be, like, another MP, another bureaucrat, there's a bureaucrat. That's absolutely not true, because it's MPs who work on public principles, and it's an increase in public control over bureaucratic administrations. We also need to take time off and accept the amendments to the Budget Code, as part of the fact that the only region of Ukraine that has a discriminatory norm on itself is the city of Kiev, where 50 percent of the income tax on individuals is being removed from the local budget of Kiev, is actually being looted by kyans. We should not forget this and accept appropriate changes. We must also accept amendments to the Capital Law because we still live by that law and even the elected city head, if not changed, will live by law, when in fact he does not understand the circumcised powers, when he is actually a nominal figure in Kiev. We must make sure that the city’s head is a full city head so that the Chinese have the right to have full local self - government. Yes, of course, we need to limit the powers of executive power and local self-government, and we need to do it in a literate manner, we have long registered relevant professional bills in the Supreme Council, we don't need to waste time and make the right decisions. With regard to other issues of course that concern the Chinese, it is also not necessary to delay the process of personnel change in Kiev. I think it's a matter of concern to everyone, too, that we should assign appropriate heads and district administrations as soon as possible, heads of city administration departments, to get the city back to normal, to function fully. So, dear friends, I urge everyone not to forget about the Chinese, not to forget those people who were actively involved in the revolution and not to forget about the city of Kiev, because that is exactly what our capital requires for implementation in the Supreme Council. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-28-m0.u68	I ask you to prepare yourself for the words of the national deputy of Pavlovsky, the national deputy of Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-28-m0.u69	Dear fellow countrymen, Andrew Pavlovsky, Fatherland. Honourable Ukrainian citizens, the likelihood of a solution by Russian aggressors to a widespread war against Ukraine remains, unfortunately, quite high. That is why Putin concentrates his troops on the north and south, eastern borders of Ukraine. And that's why the Supreme Council made a decision on partial mobilization and also passed the Ukrainian National Guard Act. And thousands, hundreds of thousands of Ukrainian patriotic men who want to defend their state with guns in their hands are now entitled to join the National Guard. In the near future, there will also be a labour guard who will be invited to work on the well - being of our Ukrainian cities and villages with appropriate pay. We must be with you, ladies and gentlemen of the Ukrainians, to understand that now the main medan of the country is not in Krestatika, not in the center of Kiev, but in the northern, eastern border of our country. So anyone who wants to serve Ukraine, defend it with arms, please join the National Guard, register as police officers, armed forces of our Ukrainians, and serve Ukraine. The same citizens who have illegal weapons are considered gangs by law. And against them, the police, the law enforcement authorities have the right to act accordingly. Dear citizens, I urge you to replace post-revolutionary chaos and disorder with severe military discipline and legality, under conditions of constant aggression from Putin to our country. Once again, for those who want to defend Ukraine with weapons in hand, register with legitimate state-owned weapons structures. I'd like to say that all the people who provoke people to secession, take over the premises of the state, oppose the Ukrainian army, are members of our enemy, members of the Russian aggressor who provoke opposition and destroy Ukraine from the inside. All of them will be severely punished under Ukrainian law, and under conditions of open war and armed opposition they will be punished.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-28-m0.u70	May I have the floor of the Zarubinsky People's Deputy. Prepare for the Medunice People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-28-m0.u71	Mr. Chairman, the honourable colleagues who are now present, the honourable citizens! I signed up for the first time in my life in this format, because I want to speak now in the Ukrainian parliaments, in the single legislative body, about Ukrainian legislation. Today, March 28, 2014. Just 10 years ago, almost 10 years ago, on March 18, 2004, the Ukrainian Parliament adopted the National Programme for the Adaptation of Ukrainian Legislation to European Union Legislation, which is exactly what it's called the AKI Communiqué. I proposed because I have no right to do this as a national deputy, and I have to do it as a committee of profile, and as head of the Supreme Council. Mr. Chairman, I'd like you to record the things I'm about to say, they relate to the work of Parliament. I have proposed to Mr. Turkin and the Committee of Profiles that we hold parliamentary hearings, serious and powerful parliamentary hearings, in honor of the 10-year action of the General Programme of Adaptation of Ukrainian Legislation to European Union legislation on what has been done. To analyze how we adapt our legislation to better legislation in the world. Because there's no better way, you know that. I made this offer. I don't have the right to do that. I'd like a profile committee to do that, you know. The other one. I have registered a bill on amendments to the Cabinet of Ministers Act, which states that those laws that we adopt after they have been adopted in general should be checked and protested in the Cabinet of Ministers for their compliance with European legislation, in accordance with the current General Programme of Law. Otherwise, we do sporadic, natural lawmaking without having a systematic approach to what Ukrainian legislation should be. And another thing, she asked my colleague to ask me this question about charity. Today, the coordination of charitable aid in Ukraine is carried out in contrast to what was once done by the Cabinet of Ministers, the Ministry of Social Policy. This delays the situation of importing this charity, which is for many days, or weeks, or months, on the border, and it is corrupt. What's more, those who want to help Ukrainian citizens are often tuberculosisrs with AIDS, children, they have to pay for these simple cargoes across the Ukrainian border. Please record this and ask a question as a parliamentary request for the return of this function to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-28-m0.u72	May I have the floor of the Medunic People's Deputy. Prepare the people's representative, Bublik.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-28-m0.u73	Oleg Medunica, Party "For Ukraine!"The Fatherland faction, the city of Sumi. Dear chairman, distinguished national MPs, distinguished voters! Now our country is experiencing difficult times, in fact we are all at war with the Russian Federation. A part of the Ukrainian territory is occupied and the occupying party is preparing a new attack, focusing on the borders with Ukraine on a significant military force. And he's trying to do everything he can to destabilize the situation in Ukraine in order to strip Ukraine of another part of Ukrainian territory. Now the main objective of the leadership of the Russian Federation is to prevent legitimate elections by the President of Ukraine. It is clear that the task of Russia’s highest political leadership is to make Ukraine appear before the world as a country that does not have good leadership, which is scattered, which is not a fully-fledged territorial state and a full nation. We understand these goals of the Russian Federation and we are doing everything in the international arena and in Ukraine so that it does not happen so that the offensive will be reflected. The UN General Assembly (more than 100 nations) supported Ukraine’s territorial integrity and recognized the Russian Federation as the world’s aggressor. All Ukrainians living outside Ukraine, especially in the diaspora, support Ukraine’s independence. Here the Ukrainian authorities have already taken the first steps that are positively reflected in the country's defences: partial mobilization has been declared; the necessary, but not necessarily the full financial resources for the Ukrainian Armed Forces; the redeployment of military forces in that area of Ukraine, which may be threatened by an aggressor, has been made. In my district of Suma alone, two thousand men voluntarily — I stress — volunteered to defend the Ukrainian state in the military. This is not counting those who were mobilized to the Ukrainian Armed Forces. We're doing everything we can to combat aggression. We'll fight off aggression, win the Crimea, win after us, the enemy will be broken. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-28-m0.u74	May I have the floor of the people's representative of Bublik. To prepare for the people's deputy Stoykov. Please, National Deputy Leonov.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-28-m0.u75	Glory to Ukraine! The Ukrainian brothers and sisters have been occupying the sovereign territory of the Ukrainian state of the Crimea Peninsula for several weeks. The aggressor has actually committed a coup d'état, little of which is occupied in Crimea, so they're still trying to legalize their stay there by creating what appears to be local authorities, by creating a local administration. But the Crimeans have already realized that all of this lies, that all of this leads to only one, Russia is trying to swallow the sovereign territory of Ukraine and Crimea is just the beginning, it's just the first course. Thank God, on the streets of my native Eupatoria, other cities in Crimea are beginning to understand what happened. At first, a lot of people were fooled by some kind of bravado about some big-time patriotism or something, and now people have realized that the invaders are walking the streets, and they're not seeing the local inhabitants of my brothers-in-laws as a second-rate people, an occupied people, a people that they've captured, and they're actually seeing their slaves, and services. And we understand very well that this first shock will be followed by another shock, a shock of deep economic collapse and a shock of deep moral decline. Since the looting in Crimea has already begun, the insolent looting of criminals has already begun, it has already been announced that all privatization, so-called processes, and what is happening is the process of nationalization of Ukrainian property. Experts estimate that the Crimea property complex can be estimated at about 30 trillion dollars. In fact, the Russian Federation has now robbed the Ukrainian state for 30 trillion dollars. Because Ukraine is the only state that has taken over itself, even when it was under the occupation of the Soviet Union, has made a full commitment to the economy, the one completely destroyed by wars and famines in the region. And everything that was created in Crimea was created by Ukrainians and Ukraine. What the Russian Federation is doing right now is nothing else can be called a robbery, like armed aggression, like an occupation. Therefore, the Supreme Council of Ukraine is obliged to adopt in the near future a series of laws to fully consolidate the status of occupied territory, to create special public authorities to provide solely for Ukrainian citizens in the occupied territory. This is the responsibility of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and we should not delay. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-28-m0.u76	Please report to the National Deputy Stojko and prepare for the National Deputy of Bullach. The national deputy of Bullach will be the last act, Dzardanov. Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-28-m0.u77	Ivan Stojko, Party "For Ukraine!"Faction of the Fatherland. Dear fellow national MPs! Respectable compatriots! Indeed, today Ukraine is experiencing the most difficult times in the history of its independent state. We're in a phase of war with our neighbor with the Russian Federation, and whoever doesn't talk, but today Putin looks no different than the modern Hitler who wants to destroy Ukraine and our people. Who wants Ukraine to kneel before him and do whatever he wants, but it will never be, and we are not alone today, with us today the world. This was proved by yesterday’s General Assembly, which gave support to 100 countries around the world. Only countries in which there is a dictatorship today supported Putin are North Korea, Syria, Venezuela, unfortunately our neighbours of Belarus, and also a few other countries that we consider not democratic. But it is unfortunate that there are still MPs in Parliament today who, once a month in fact, did not say those words that should say that there is an aggressor in the form of Putin, there are those who want to colonize the Ukrainian state today. But they will be evaluated in the next parliamentary election, namely, the Party of Regions and Communists, the Ukrainian people. One thing we need to talk about today is our state, the state of the state, the state of the Ukrainian economy, and the state of the Ukrainian armed forces in particular. And Parliament is doing its best to strengthen them. I'm sure we did the right thing by being in Crimea this month, our troops didn't make a single shot, and with iron stamina, they did everything they could to keep the enemy from going far. Because the situation was difficult, for four years Janukovic and his team have done everything they can to destroy our power structures and the entire defense sector. And so today, when Janukovic is said to be speaking, we need to understand that he is a traitor to Ukraine today, the custodian of Putin, and it is no longer up to him. It all depends on us: what Crimea is going to be like today, who wants to turn the aggressors into some playground, and that is, we realize that drug addiction and prostitution are going there. Today, we must do everything we can to protect Ukraine. And I'm sure we will. And despite all the provocations that happened last night.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-28-m0.u78	Please finish the dates.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-28-m0.u79	Who were at the Supreme Council's con last night when they tried to break in here, the door. And it's going to take a lot of people from the right sector, especially Igor Mazur, who said that the Right Sector wasn't involved, I think it was the Divers, those who worked in Crimea, in Kharkiv, in Odessa, and they got to Kiev today. Therefore, we must be vigilant; we must do our utmost to make Ukraine strong, united, and invincible. And we will definitely win. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-28-m0.u80	May I have the floor of the People's Deputy, Mr. Dzardanov? This is the last performance.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-28-m0.u81	The people say: "He who sows the wind will reap the storm." And we got this situation in Ukraine, especially yesterday. But that's not what I'm talking about. I want to say this. Why have we come to such a weak situation today in 22 years of independent Ukraine? And I'll tell you why. It is not only Yanukovic who must be judged, it is the Presidents of Ukraine who must be judged, and all the Ministers of Defence. Now I'll tell you why. Ukraine received the third nuclear potential in the world from the Soviet Union and Communists. Where'd he go? Why was this potential destroyed under the influence of the United States? Why were hundreds of ballistic missiles, winged missiles destroyed? Why were 31 TU-22 and other strategic aircraft destroyed? Whose influence did this all take place? Under the influence of NATO and the United States and under the leadership of the current presidents. I'll tell you what. Why was the defence complex destroyed: 3 and a half thousand defence factories, 700 of them military only? Why are we selling U.S. 27 -- strategic planes, fire rockets, air-conditioning? Why are we selling airliners to the same China? We could make it. Why do we have a Ukrainian cruiser tied to the shore in Nikolaev? Yes, because free leadership, because guns are sold to the left, to the right, and no one is responsible. Why Yushchenko gave away the arms of Georgia for free. It's a crime! Once again, it is important to judge all the presidents, including many former defence ministers who sit here. Why there is no responsibility. Here are some stats. 225 winged missiles, 31 TU-22 bombers, were able to serve Ukraine until today, and that would be a deterrent. It's all been destroyed in 22 years, and now we want to fight Russia! They're 16 times stronger than us. It's just a number. It was 800,000, we can't raise 40,000 now. Stop talking nonsense! We need to be friends with Russia, and we need to make a deal with Russia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-28-m0.u82	The speaking time is over. Ladies and gentlemen, the next plenary meeting will take place on April 1st at 10 a.m. Thank you. Good-bye.
