ParlaMint-UA_2014-11-27-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies and guests of the Supreme Council. Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. The solemn session on the occasion of the formation of the oath by the Ukrainian National Deputies, which was elected on October 26, 2014, declared open.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-11-27-m0.u2	Dear newly elected Ukrainian national deputies! Allow me, on behalf of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, to welcome you, on behalf of the seventh vocation and all those present in the Hall, with the election of the Ukrainian National Deputies, to wish you fruitful and constructive work in the sole legislative body of Ukraine, the higher representative body of the Ukrainian people! At the Summit of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the occasion of the formation of the oaths by Ukraine's newly elected national deputies, there are: President of Ukraine, please invite him to the Hall; Prime Minister of Ukraine Arsenij Petrovich Yacenuk, welcome; members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine; Presidents of Ukraine Leonid Makarovich Kravczuk, Leonid Danilovich Kuchma, Viktor Andryovich Yuschenko; Heads of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for previous appeals; National Deputys of Ukraine for previous appeals; former Prime Ministers of Ukraine; Head and Judges of the Constitutional Court; Head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine; Head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine; and Heads of the Central Prosecutor of Ukraine; General Prosecutor of Ukraine; Head of the National Bank of Ukraine; Head of the Central Election Commission; Head of the Security Service of Ukraine; Head of the Central Court of Justice; Head of the Central Executives; Chief of the National Prosecutor of Ukraine; Head of the National Bank of the Armed Forces; Head of the Churches of the Churches. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Representatives of the diplomatic corps, public organizations, and the media are also present. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine, distinguished guests of the Supreme Council! Our country is experiencing the most dramatic stage in its history. Please pay tribute to the moment of silence to the memory of the Heroes of the Celestial 100th, our military personnel who gave their lives for the freedom, independence, and territorial integrity of Ukraine, as well as to the civilian citizens who died during Russia’s war against our country. [[A Minute of Silence]] Please sit down. In accordance with article 79 of the Constitution, before taking office, Ukrainian deputies make an oath before the Supreme Council of Ukraine. To make an oath before the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I ask the Ukrainian national deputies to stand up. I ask the Ukrainian National Deputies to read the text of the oath along with the oldest national MP of Ukraine. I swear allegiance to Ukraine. I commit myself to upholding Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence by all my actions, caring for the welfare and welfare of the Ukrainian people. I pledge to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine to carry out my duties in the interests of all the countrymen. (Front) [[People’s Deputies Read the text of the oath]] Please sit down and fasten the oath with your signatures. [[(The Prayer for Ukraine by M.V. Lysenka) (Applause)]] Please sit down. Dear newly elected national deputies, I ask you to sign your own oaths. Honorary colleagues, in connection with the unlawful detention of the Savachenko Hope under guard in the territory of the Russian Federation, have personally secured the text of the oath of the Ukrainian People’s Deputy in the presence of a lawyer. In line with the rule of law principle, the Preparatory MP group made a decision, according to which the text of the oath, signed by Nadia Savchenko, was rendered on the electronic board. Because of the circumstances that exist today, this is the only possible means to confirm the entry of the Saucenco People’s Deputy of Ukraine. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues! After signing the text, you have to give this text to the Supreme Council's staff, who are on the 2nd floor of the registration table. Then you can receive the ballots and register for the first plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the eighth call. There's a technical break to 12 o'clock.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-11-27-m0.u3	Dear colleagues! Please take your seats, we'll continue our work. Have a seat, ladies and gentlemen. I ask the secretariat to invite all the national deputies to the session room. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine and Visitors of the Supreme Council! As a result of the elections to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, held on October 26, 2014, the Central Election Commission registered 419 Ukrainian national deputies. They made an oath, took office, and registered for the first plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thus, the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the Eighth Call is full and can exercise its constitutional powers. Dear colleagues, according to article 90 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the seventh convocation ceases. A special meeting. [[Applause]] I declare the ceremony closed by the newly elected Ukrainian National Deputies. Dear colleagues! I have completed my duties, and I invite the Head of the Preparatory Group to take a seat in the Presidium.
