ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-06-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national MPs! I ask the members of the Secretariat to invite all the deputies to the session room. Please take your seats and prepare for registration. Please, Your Honor, I'd like you to turn on the "Council" system and register with the National Deputies. [[10:14:02]] A 291 national MP was registered in the hall. We're starting the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Dear colleagues! You and I have sad events, tragic events that have taken place in our country. In particular, in the course of an antiterrorist operation, our military officers, law enforcement officials, were killed. They gave their lives for independence, sovereignty, and the territorial integrity of our country. In addition, tragic events took place in the city of Odessa with great human sacrifices. I ask the Supreme Council to honor the memory of the dead. [[A Minute of Silence]] Please sit down. Traditionally, my dear colleagues, I am informing you that today is the birthday of the National Deputy of Ukraine Bandurov Volodymyr Volodymyrovich. And I would like to remind you that today we need to start our work with you on the issue of conducting an anti-terrorist operation in the east of our country and resisting the destabilisation of the situation in the country. Power leaders are ready to report. During last week’s sessions, we made a decision with you to hold a closed session today. That was the offer, dear colleagues. And the decision. I'm begging you, colleagues, you don't have to help me. I would now like to ask the Supreme Council to endorse this decision by voting. I, my dear colleagues, ask everyone to sit in their seats and support the proposal made to hold a closed session today so that you and I can get the maximum amount of information and have the opportunity not to disturb an additional situation that is difficult enough and dangerous enough. So, dear colleagues, I ask you to support the proposal for a meeting. This is draft regulation 4811. [[B in m in s a l in]] People's deputies, please vote. Please vote. [[10:17:40]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Region Party 2, Fatherland 66, Impact 25, Economic Development 19, Sovereign European Ukraine 23, All-Ukrainian Freedom 34, Company 0, non-factional 25. Dear colleagues, please, then we don't have a closed session, we work in normal mode. And I thought it would be better for Parliament to get the maximum amount of information. My colleagues, I say again, we have to come to work at the right time and vote at the right time. Let's not have any questions or accusations that I'm not going to be able to discuss this issue. Please, one minute from the factions, let's sign up and make a statement. Please sign up necessarily and non-fractional. Party of regions, Butkowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-06-m0.u2	I'd like to pass on the word to Hanna Herman.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-06-m0.u3	Please turn on the microphone of the German People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-06-m0.u4	Dear National Deputies! It is the right decision to hold this open session today, we have nothing to hide from the Ukrainian people. If the authorities have something to hide, the authorities can hide. But today, to hide the fact that they are shooting and killing innocent people who are defending their rights in the East of Ukraine. What is to hide from and from whom? Either way, the whole world knows, we have to sit at the negotiating table right now, we have to make the only decision to compromise and stop the fratricidal war in Ukraine. I am once again, I have been for two months and our faction calls for this, I call again today, to make only three decisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-06-m0.u5	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that peaceful people do not kill or torture Ukrainian citizens or take hostages. [[Applause]] This is what terrorists do, and it is against them that an antiterrorist operation is being carried out. Please, People's Deputies of China.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-06-m0.u6	The honourable national MPs, the "Economic Development" MP, once again, I stress, urge all national MPs to move away from the current political or personal competition and unite with the Ukrainian people to protect Ukraine's state and national interests. The question that we are proposing today in the day - to - day setting is of many specific points, including special information. Therefore, the Economic Development Group proposes to vote in favour of the closed regime, with further broad coverage for the Ukrainian people, of our decisions in the area where it is possible. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-06-m0.u7	Thank you. National MP Simonenko, Company.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-06-m0.u8	Simonenko, the faction of the Company. The Company's faction insists on an open conversation with the press, and the conversation must be that in the twenty-first century Odessa became Hatinya, Odessa was a disgrace to the current national-fascist regime, which kills the peaceful population, burning it. [[B in m in s a l in]] That is a fact. Secondly, we must understand today that it is necessary to discuss openly the need to decide and amend the Constitution on the federalization of the country. This is the only road to the integrity of the territorial Ukraine today. When you finally realize that you're killing not only independence, you're killing political sovereignty today, you're destroying the integrity of the State of Ukraine. Therefore, we call on the Communists today to understand that an immediate cessation of the terrorist operation against their people is necessary, to withdraw immediately, and to take immediate action to change the Constitution and the federalization of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-06-m0.u9	National Deputy Donny, Sovereign European Ukraine, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-06-m0.u10	Please pass the word to Volodymyr Litwin.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-06-m0.u11	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! I propose that we stop these political games and start considering this issue, put nothing else to the vote, and run it in the regime agreed upon by the faction leaders. We need an open or closed regime -- we need a serious discussion and the principles of conclusions to be drawn. We're in political play! Let's forget about the election campaign. Let us understand that Ukraine is on fire, and serious decisions need to be made, including human resources. You can't keep moving like that, or this Supreme Council has to stop its existence. You can't sit in the Supreme Council and work against the country when it's in a very dangerous position! This is ridiculous! What are you doing?Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-06-m0.u12	Thank you. National MP Pober, impact faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-06-m0.u13	Please pass the word to Vitalia Klitschka.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-06-m0.u14	Please turn on Vitaly Call's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-06-m0.u15	I'd like to address all the deputies present. Several trips were made to Odessa, and many people were associated. To this day, it is vital that we focus on a far more important weapon. Maybe I'm sure heavy-arm helicopters don't crash and special forces work there. But a much more important weapon is a media weapon. And today, we see a lot of politicians start pouring oil into the fire. That's the first one. Secondly, I'd like us to focus on the media together, because they're brainwashing, brainwashing people. To clarify the position, there must be a dialogue. Without a dialogue, we could lose the country. And it's very important, and it's much more important than firearms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-06-m0.u16	Thank you. Yavorowski National Deputy, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-06-m0.u17	Dear Parliamentarians! Can you imagine the parliament of another country that is in a state of war and surrounded on every side, and the parliament washes its hands with this bloody problem? Closed or Open? Dear Mr. Head! I'm convinced that our meeting in any circumstances, even if we vote in private, will be open because there are Communists here and there's a splinter of the Party of Regions that will publish all of this tomorrow. And the last thing I want to say. Why is the country today in such a critical situation, where everything is at stake, why can't Parliament, in a closed regime, address the problems that are present today? What's wrong with that, I don't understand. So you do everything today, I say again, both communists and regionals. You're doing everything you can to lose our country. Because of this, I propose that we put this question to the vote again, literally, and vote for it. We need to consider, we need to listen to the muscle.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-06-m0.u18	Thank you. Please, People's Deputy Kyle, Freedom.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-06-m0.u19	Thank you. Alexy Kaida, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. First. The opening or closing of the sitting. I ask you, Mr. Head, to put the vote again and vote in favour of today's private plenary session. Although we understand very well that there are FSB agents in our session room in the Ukrainian Parliament who are here crying out with hatred for Ukrainian independence, who are spitting on the Ukrainian people. At the same time, I'm talking to the muscle. In the event that information outside Parliament is issued by means of media and Russian intelligence, the submission to the Supreme Council of the submission to these National Deputies of the removal of inviolability and their arrest is immediately made. Finally, the Ukrainian Parliament should become the Ukrainian Parliament, not the downpour of the FSB. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-06-m0.u20	Thank you. From the non-fractional Oleg Lazko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-06-m0.u21	Oleg Lazko. Dear colleagues, have I just returned from our hot spots? Where he's been for the last two years. For those of you who weren't there and didn't know what was going on, I'll tell you. Today, there is a war going on in eastern Ukraine. The war against Ukraine, against the Ukrainian people. This war is waged by terrorists, Russian diversans, agencies, including Communists. In the Slovenian MP, the head of the Communist Party, Hmelov, builds barricades and fights with arms against our military. In the Luhansk region, a member of the Communist Party, Hokhlov, blocks the military forces in Happiness and captures the management of the BSS. So, Alexander Valentine's Day, I turn to you on your behalf: to initiate immediately the issue of banning the Communist Party, first as collaborators, as guides to the invaders. Second, remove the traitors from the hall, traitors, and divers who are sitting in this room. These are the sales commies that serve Moscow, not the Ukrainian people! You're not going to remove it, we're going to take Simonek out of the villas, we're going to take out this bastard who sells it.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-06-m0.u22	Please! Dear colleagues, I ask you to calm down! There were suggestions to repeat the vote. At the request of the factions, Your Honor, I'm re-voting draft regulation 4811. Please take your seats. Okay, okay. I'm counting on the offer to come back. Now let's vote and take a break. Dear colleagues, I'm asking you to take your seats. Calm down, please! And to return, to support the motion to return to the vote for draft Decree 4811 on the holding of a closed plenary session. Motivation, fellow believers, is very simple: it is a great sin to make a pianist in the blood of men. Dear colleagues, I would like to support the proposal to return to the vote on draft regulation 4811. Please vote. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:30:30]] For 222 Decision Not Adopted The factions, please. Region Party – 2.72 – Fatherland, 35 – Impact, 24 – Economic Development, Sovereign European Ukraine – 25, Freedom – 35, Company – 0, non-fractional – 29. Please. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, I can see the hands that didn't work on the card. This is the last time I'm going to put the question of return to the vote. I'm asking you, colleagues, to work with your cards, let's just sit in our seats and work, then the cards will work. Please, this is the last time I'm voting for a return vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please take your seats. I'd like to turn on the "Ray" system. [[B in m in s a l in]] Take your seats, colleagues. Take your seats. Colleagues, now two votes won't do it again because you're not in your jobs. Dear colleagues, please take your seats, please. Please support Parliament's proposal to return to the vote in favour of draft regulation 4811. Please vote. [[10:32:32]] For 231 Decision taken. Thank you. The factions, please. Region Party - 1, Parenthood - 78, Impact - 38, Economic Development - 25, Sovereign Ukraine - 24, Freedom - 35, Company - 0, non-fractional - 30. Thank you. Dear colleagues, the offer about. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, I ask you to vote in favour of Decree 4811, please support. [[10:33:36]] For 232 Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-06-m0.u23	Dear colleagues, I would like to give the floor (three minutes of the minutes) to the head of the National Security Committee of Volodymyr Mikhailovich Litvina. He's also going to make proposals from the parliament that the committee has been working on, and I want to say that the committee has done a lot of professional work on these proposals, so let's make a decision. It's from a profile committee. And I would ask that we support these proposals. Please, Vladimir Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-06-m0.u24	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! The question is: Was there a need for closed meetings and such reports? Obviously, a closed session should have been and should have been. The reports said that every strong structure had only been brought to light by what it was doing. But together with the general picture, what there is and what will be, what will be the results, I don't think there will be. That's the first one. The committee therefore proposes that the Acting President, the Supreme Commander, appoint a person who would be authorized to be a real, non-terrorist centre manager, coordinate the activities of all the force forces in carrying out an antiterrorist operation. By the way, it's no longer an anti-terror operation, it's a full-scale military operation. And we have to get out of this. The other one. Because if you listen to the speeches of people who can't be allowed into the security and defence sector at all, it's like they're running this operation, they're "twittering" forever, and I think it's making people's infidelity even worse. Who authorized them to provide appropriate information? So we also propose that this decision authorize one official to provide appropriate information in certain terms that would instill faith, confidence, and not despair. And a number of other positions. Third moment. We have to move away from the quota principle for security and defence jobs. This is what we reap from this approach, especially in Odessa. About Odessa. I suggest we set up a special investigation committee and find out what was going on. Because what's officially published is immoral, it's not true, and it's a lie, and it's criminal, at large. Next. Who is responsible for appointing the chief of police in the Odessa region? Well, they fired him, well, they assigned him a new one. How was he appointed, by what principles, by what criteria? Now we're going to have, and we're going to have these results. Yes, dear fellows, there is no time. The committee has completed the corresponding draft regulation 4812, which is given to you. Let's ask her to take it as a whole right now, but to rule out positions on the establishment of the Supreme Commander's bet, because the law regulates this issue, we've had long discussions, and we don't need to now, I think, excite the situation and make this decision. In a position where we're talking about developing a new concept for the reform of the Armed Forces, to rule out a position to create 5 operational directions. And in view of this, he will answer those questions that include military personnel. Thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-06-m0.u25	Dear colleagues, there is an offer, I ask the Secretariat to make 5 announcements, no less, because with the first one, we are unlikely to have the people back in the hall. I ask the Secretariat to announce the announcement in the halls, in the halls, in Parliament’s buffet of immediate return to the hall, and we must make very important decisions. Dear colleagues, Vladimir Mikhailovich presented draft decree 4812. I would like to ask that we then begin to consider matters that we need to take up immediately today. I say again that without adopting the issues that have been put into the agenda today, we are unlikely to be able to work and help our strong structures to strengthen the country's security, to strengthen the fight against terrorism, the diversans and those who have declared war on Ukraine today. So, dear colleagues, here's the next offer. All these questions are discussed on the committees, but they need to be included in the agenda. I suggest. As a result of the consideration of the matter. [[B in m in s a l in]] Thank you for your help, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, this is decree 4812, presented by Vladimir Mikhailovich Litwin. I want to ask the National MPs, can we accept it without talking? We can do this without discussion. Thank you so much for your support. The only request is we'll take it as a basis and in general with the remarks on which the committee head emphasized. Is there no objection? None. Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. 4812. Draft decree on additional measures to strengthen the security and security of the state. Please support, taking into account the changes highlighted by the committee’s chairman, to be accepted as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[12:13:31]] For -250. Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues! I'm the only thing that, instead of the pros button, I pressed the microphone button, so I'm asking my voice to also count for this determination. Dear colleagues! Now I'm asking you to consider a question that's not included in the agenda, because technically we couldn't do it. But we talked about this with faction leaders. It's about a nightly decision, and tonight the Council of National Security and Defence was meeting, and the Council approved the proposal to extend the deadline for partial mobilization. You know that partial mobilization is imposed by the President's decree, but in order for it to work, it has to be approved by Parliament. This is a similar decree already adopted by the Supreme Council. The only thing we do for 45 days is continue partial mobilization, taking into account the situation in Ukraine. I'm asking, Your Honor, this is draft Law 4814, and we're going to put it in order of the day. Please, Your Honor, 4814, support the inclusion in the agenda. Please vote. [[12:15:07]] For 246 Decision taken. Thank you. I can't say no to Inna Hermanovna. Another German, please make a note. Turn on the microphone, please, to the People’s Deputy of God’s Word.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-06-m0.u26	Dear colleagues! Now I'm asking the Cabinet to pay attention to what I'm about to say. Now we have a lot of tension among those involved in the military mobilization. People don't have a loan freeze guarantee. People don't have an average wage saving place of work, people don't have a signal from the state that they do. If we don't give a signal from the Kabmin now, if we continue to mobilize, we'll increase the danger, the storm inside. So I would very much ask if we could take -- and we're going to take this decision today -- today to make a statement from the government that these rights are being preserved, that the Attorney-General's Office will take care of those employers that don't provide for the requirements of the law in the workplace, because otherwise we'll get a fifth column from the inside. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-06-m0.u27	Please turn on the Prime Minister's microphone, he will comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-06-m0.u28	Inna Hermanovna, thank you for asking. I'd like to inform you that, in fact, one of the main problems in those people who are currently in service is the payment of loans. The total number of such people is about two and a half thousand. The amount of credit is 10 million in foreign currency and 25 million dollars in total for these two and a half thousand in national currency. What a decision we made yesterday. We invented interest payments, a hundred percent interest payments, during the service, in case the person in question was mobilized. [[Applause]] I'll tell you honestly, I'd like to, well, pay off a portion of the loan, but I'll be honest with you: first of all, we don't have the money for it, second of all, we're going to have half the country cancel the loans right now. And as for those who serve, the percentages are extinguished during their stay.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-06-m0.u29	Dear colleagues, I only ask: let's support this decision. And we'll talk about it, I'll give it a chance to discuss it. 4814, please. I've ordered everyone to come to the hall. Once again, I ask you to make such an announcement. Please, Your Honor, draft Law 4814 -- it sounds very brief: "Approval of Presidential Decree No. 454 of 6 May 2014 on Partial Mobilization," please vote. This law takes effect from the day it was published. Please vote on the basis as a whole. [[12:18:18]] For 251 Thank you. Decision taken. Dear colleagues! I would also like to ask you to support the Cabinet of Ministers, which has raised many important questions. Especially the Order that will be highlighted by me right now, No. 4810. This is about immediate assistance to our Armed Forces. I'm going to announce its contents. It's very short. "According to article 12, paragraph 6, of the State Reserve Act, we agree with the Cabinet's decision to release the Ministry of Defence 41 000 100 tonnes of diesel fuel, 20,000 200 tonnes of petrol and 1 million 904,000 760 cans of meat cans from the ground floor. Reserve of the State Reserve to meet the needs of the Ukrainian Armed Forces." And here I'm going to write, "and the National Guard." No objections?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-06-m0.u30	And also, let's do that. Those structures that are involved in an anti-terror operation. Okay. No objections, no respectable colleagues, no support? Please support 4810 as a base. They're both border guards and border guards. Well, where are we without border guards? In view of the additions made by the national deputies, please support the Supreme Council Order at number 4810. Please vote. [[12:20:07]] For 251 Decision taken. Thank you very much, dear colleagues. We're moving on to the next question. This is a draft law amending article 6 of the Ukrainian War Veterans Act, guaranteeing their social protection regarding participation in hostilities, regarding participants, I'm sorry, the hostilities that took place in the anti-terror operation. The content is very clear, respectable colleagues. We compare the participants in an anti-terror operation, all who participate in this operation, who defends weapons in their hands, take part in actual combat activities, we give them the status of participants in combat. What is just and responsible. No objection, dear colleagues? This is Project 4815. Request to include it first in the agenda. Please be supportive. [[12:21:10]] For 253 Decision taken. Can we vote without talking? We can. Please accept this law as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[12:21:34]] For 251 I thank the National Deputies very much for supporting our Armed Forces, the courageous men who defend our country with arms. The factions, please. And please, I'm announcing. Region Party – 1, Fatherland – 87, Impact – 32, 26 – Economic Development, 31 – European Ukraine, 35 – Freedom, Company – 0 (traditional) and non-fractional – 39. Thank you very much, Your Honor, for the support of our Armed Forces. I would ask that all the information that the Prime Minister has announced and the laws that we are enacting be brought to the attention of our citizens. The next question is the draft Act amending article 39 of the Ukrainian Law on State Procurement (for the application of the reduced procedure of purchases in special periods). The point is that in special circumstances, that is, now that it is necessary to buy weapons, buy a defense system, etc., do it under reduced procedures, that is, without any restrictions. The only nuance is the addition of the impact faction that Vitaly Klitschko announced to me. Please, I'm asking the profile committee to read this supplement that the faction insists on. The head of the profile committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-06-m0.u31	Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! On April 24th, the Economic Policy Committee considered a government bill amending the Public Procurement Act and made the appropriate decision to support the changes as a whole. But in the course of today's discussion with the UDA faction, we came up with a joint decision to present this bill in the next edition with the Ministry of Justice, namely, for the transcript: to complement with the words "with a special period (whom), if the customer is the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the National Security Service, the Ministry of Defence, the Border Service, the State Intelligence Service, DSTZI and the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Ministry of Defence," sorry. Alexi. Second item. Dear friends, may I have your attention? Article 39, second paragraph, should be added to the following words: "The procurement negotiation procedure shall be carried out on the basis of the customer's decision on each procedure." Please support the bill as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-06-m0.u32	Dear colleagues, do you understand the offer? So these procedures have to be public. And in order for no one to have the right under this law to raise their commercial interests, clearly identified subjects of the law. These are just strong structures that are taking part in protecting the country. Please, dear fellows! Now, please, Your Honor, let's put it in the agenda first. Please sit on your desks and support the inclusion of the day-to-day project under registration number 4754. Please. [[12:25:33]] For 252 Decision taken. Thank you and I ask you to support this project now by voting for it as a whole. Vote please, 4754. [[12:25:57]] For 253 Decision taken. We need the Supreme Council to always work like this. You see, the Communists were expelled, the process went. Dear colleagues, the next question right now, we have three choices to make here, a draft law amending some Ukrainian legislation on the order of criminal liability. Dear colleagues, this is Project 4748. The point is, under the law, only a prosecutor can file a motion for liability. In this law, it is very brief, that the Attorney General’s office can do the same. Because some deputies are working against their own country by abuse of the MP's mandate, boasting of their own intrusiveness, calling for a change in the country's borders, calling for opposition from the Ukrainian Armed Forces, in fact, inciting civil war in our country. So, dear colleagues, I very much ask you, this is a very serious and responsible question. Please include this short but very important law in the agenda: 4748. Please vote. [[12:27:31]] For 217 The decision is not taken. By factions, please: Region Party - 0; 82 - Fatherland; 33 - Impact; Economic Development - 19, Sovereign European Ukraine - 19; 35 - Freedom; 0 - Company; non-fractional - 29. Dear colleagues. [[B in m in s a l in]] I can't hear you! Please turn the microphone on for Oleg Pullibok.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-06-m0.u33	Dear colleagues, dear Mr. Head! Here's a proposition: go back to that question. Let me get this straight. Today, however, the need for the Office of the Attorney-General to remove the parliamentary intricacy of those MPs who had been observed in State crimes, particularly in the instigation of secession and international hostility, has been expressed and published. You know that the Attorney General cannot do that. And it is this bill that enables the Attorney General to submit to Parliament for the removal of parliamentary immunity. So I ask you very much, let's go back to this question, vote on this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-06-m0.u34	National MP Bondar, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-06-m0.u35	Dear colleagues, there is a proposal, considering that not everyone agrees and understands that this decision will allow only the Queen, and many people have the question that she will continue to be like Damocle's sword on the MPs on a permanent basis, so that there will be a possibility of disputing some of the deputies' politicians, is a proposal: let us now put to the vote to remove the parliamentary immunity of those specific MPs who have a bearing on separatist statements and actions, and this document will be considered separately and carefully, read and voted on. [[Congrats]] And now the King and the company will be put to the vote. Let the Attorney General bring it in, and we'll vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-06-m0.u36	I'm asking you to calm down! Unfortunately, we cannot now vote on the King and others because the law states that the application is filed by the Attorney General. This law has a very short but meaningful position. Where the Attorney General is written, he is responsible for the Attorney General's duties. Period. Dear colleagues, the point is that, I am convinced, there, a month after the presidential election, it will be, hopefully already in June, that the nominee, not the performing duty, will be introduced, but the Attorney General. I mean, it doesn't give anybody anything, it doesn't protect anyone. But during this month there's a fierce struggle, and we have, you know, our colleagues just abuse their mandate and work against their own country. We don't have the right to leave it out of our responsibilities. We have nothing to explain to people; they do not want to understand that the responsibilities are not fulfilled. They say arrest, that's it! I beg you, let's work within the law. In order to accept this, we need to make a change: the Attorney General, in parentheses – (the doer of duties). More threat. We're not simplifying the procedure, we're still going to have to vote, we're going to have to pass through the regulatory committee. So it's complicated enough, but today we can't even start without this little one. without this little supplement. Once again, my dear colleagues. Kolya! Rudkowski! Mikola Mikolaiovich! Please, colleagues, sit down. Andrew Volodymyrovich! Let's do it again. Ask your colleagues, don't worry, put them to the vote again. Please, support me, Your Honor. War is coming! During the war, let us also give the attorney - general the right to carry out his constitutional duties. Please support your respected colleagues. Please come back. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-06-m0.u37	Alexander Valentinovich! Clarification for fellow MPs. Let's write that in the absence of an appointed Attorney General. That is, when he is gone, the Attorney General, so that there is no such thing as a vacation for Henprocurator, who carries out the prosecutor’s duties. Either the Attorney General, or in the absence of Henprocuror, the acting prosecutor.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-06-m0.u38	Not in the absence, not in the case of the Attorney General's appointment.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-06-m0.u39	In case of no appointment. Not an assignment.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-06-m0.u40	It's important!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-06-m0.u41	And so we're going to take a vote to solve the issue of those who support separatists.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-06-m0.u42	Dear colleagues, with Oleg Valeriovich's observation can we? We can vote. Come on. an important point. Dear colleagues, first of all, let's put it in the agenda, this is Project No.4748. Please support inclusion in the agenda. Please vote. Thank you. [[12:32:51]] For 234 Taking into account Oleg Laska's proposal, please support this project as a whole. Project 4748. Please vote, Your Honor, on the basis and in general. At the border. [[12:33:17]] For 227 Decision taken. Thank you. Please, by the factions. 0 – Party of regions. 84, Fatherland. 33 – SHOCK. 20, Economic Development. 20 – "North European Ukraine". 35 - "Freedom". 0 is a company. 35 – non-fractional. Dear colleagues, we can't vote right now, I don't have a pass. Please, Your Honor, I ask the apparatus, while we pass two more laws, to contact the Henprosecutor so that he can immediately submit to the separatist deputies. Please, as long as we, your honor's colleagues, adopt other laws, let's give the Attorney-General a commission when such positive work is done. Please turn on Irina Heratchenko's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-06-m0.u43	Dear Alexander Valentinovich, you will now sign this law, and I would also like to point out that today much has been said about the need to strengthen the information policy of the state. We still don't have Nacradu to warn the separatist channels, including in Odessa the Kiwalova Canal, the Academy, they roll separatist rollers every day. The same thing is happening on Donbass, and we can't assign the Nacradu, we ask you today to sign the Law that we voted on the possibility of freeing our four so that we can appoint a four-year term from the Supreme Council so that Nacrad can fight separatism on the TV channels. Please do not hesitate to sign the law that we have voted on.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-06-m0.u44	Thanks for the offer. I'm asking the profile committee to pass the signing bill, and I'll sign it today. Thank you. Dear colleagues, next question. Please don't break up, you see how our parliament works systematically and effectively when there is no need to speak to the press. The draft Law on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Laws on Improving Defence Mobilization Issues during Mobilization. I'd like to ask, Your Honor, that this law be presented. That's the second reading of the law, right? No, the first one. It is necessary for national deputy Alexander Ivanovich Kuzmuk to report this law. Please state budget to start it in the agenda, No.4785. Please vote. [[12:36:19]] For 241 Decision taken. Please, Alexander Ivanovich. Under the reduced procedure, no objections, dear colleagues? Let's support what's under the shorter procedure. Please vote. [[12:36:41]] For 225 Decision taken. Please, Alexander Ivanovich Kuzmuk will report this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-06-m0.u45	Dear colleagues, thank you, we are working to win today. This law, sponsored by Sergey Greenewecki, Yuri Sirotyuk, John Stoyko, Alexander Kuzmuk, Yuri Samylenko, and today, in ultimative form, all but one of our members of our profiling committee have joined this law. The project is designed to improve the social protection of military personnel appointed to military service during the mobilization process, and it answers all the questions that have been raised by deputies in the room today. The first is the settlement of social assistance payments to female military personnel, the exemption from the payment of fines in connection with the untimely payment of financial obligations, the protection of the rights of student military personnel who were called upon during the mobilization, the extension of social protection measures provided for military personnel who are engaged in military service at the time of the recruitment. Predicting the right to receive a special period of family leave, to improve the system of mobilization and to take measures to improve the state's defence capacity, to suspend a special period of action that entails a reduction in the number, limitation in the recruitment or financing of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. And, attention: from the beginning and to the end of the special period, and from the time of recruitment and the end of the special period, reserve staff and military personnel have been sentenced to fines, penalties for non-performance of liabilities to enterprises, institutions and organizations of all forms of property, including banks and individuals, as well as interest on the use of credits. On that basis, I ask the Supreme Council. As a basis and as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-06-m0.u46	Dear colleagues, come on, there is a proposal for the government to study the matter, to adopt the Law in the first reading, and together with the Government we will work on it. Please, is there a need to discuss? Turn on the microphone for Sergei Anatoliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-06-m0.u47	Thank you. Dear colleagues, a very important law, can be adopted in principle. The only thing I'd like to add to this Law is the position on the individuals who are entrepreneurs who are mobilized, because they need to pay the only social contribution and tax, whether they are mobilized or not. So when you mobilize, you have to get rid of these fees, because, well, it's stupid to just take them. And with such a complement, this important law could be passed in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-06-m0.u48	Dear colleagues, I propose that we consider the offer of Sergey Teryochin. But it's asking the government, nevertheless, that the law is large enough for us to accept it in the first reading, in the short run, but that the government will still have the opportunity to process it with a committee of profile. So, dear colleagues, I'm putting this project on the ground. Based on the base. Colleagues, the government is asking. Please, strike faction. Sold to Oxana Petrovna. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-06-m0.u49	Dear Alexander Valentinovich! In the first reading, you can vote, but please announce under the transcript that, taking into account the changes to the Tax Code and the Single Social Contribution Act, we will not be able to make them under the Rules. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-06-m0.u50	I see. Dear colleagues! Taking into account Oksana's comments, sell so that we can adopt this law in the first reading, taking into account the changes to Tax. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues! Once again, we cannot make any changes to a serious law. The government still asks to see this law. He has the right to do so. Let us be objective in dealing with matters. We'll have him ready in a week. I cannot deny the government their right to join in drafting the law for second reading. Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. Law 4785 is to be adopted as a basis. Please vote. [[12:41:51]] For 249 The 249 deputies were voted in. Decision taken. Dear colleagues! Please support the simplified procedure for dealing with this issue. Please be supportive. [[12:42:12]] For 244 Decision taken. Dear colleagues! Now we have a package of three laws that we're going to have to discuss. It's about what the MPs were talking about when they asked questions about what the ministers of the force were talking about when they were speaking. For us to go with you not only in carrying out an anti-terrorist operation, but not only in a violent way to eliminate terrorism, which must be destroyed in such a way. But they did give the opportunity to people who want to change, who want to be supported, they want to be heard, so that we can also be able to join them in the political process. This is a package of three projects. First. This is a draft law on the conduct of the All-Ukrainian Advisory Survey. And we agreed that we would talk, not about the polls, but about the referendum. Because the word referendum is accepted in both the East and the South. To spend it on May 25th. Next. The package with this law should consider the draft Act amending Appendix No. 3 to the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2014 to finance the conduct of the All-U.S. Advisory Survey, and we'll talk about the referendum. And the draft Decision on the issue of the All-Ukrainian Advisory Survey on May 25th. That is, the Supreme Council should determine the questions on which the survey will be conducted. There are differences here. There are two solutions, because there are two questions and one question. But, dear fellows, I emphasize to you that there is no point in taking one question apart. And there are three questions to be determined regarding the inclusion of all three issues in the agenda, and every question must be voted on. Or not vote on any of these issues. Because each of these issues does not make any legal sense. That's why, huh? Colleagues, I propose before the Supreme Council is determined on this issue. Let's put these three laws into the order of the day. I will give the floor to Justice Minister Paul Dmitrovich Petrenko, who will report on all three of these issues, and then we will be determined. Is there no objection? The head of the budget committee, Geller Evgeny Borisovich, is also required. Yes, it is. Dear colleagues, is this proposal supported? Supported. I ask for draft legislative acts 4801, 4809, 4818, 4818-1 to be included in the agenda. Please enter into the agenda. We're going to demonstrate, and we're going to include each question separately. I'd like to support you, distinguished national MPs. [[12:45:51]] For 231 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I give the floor to present this package of legislative initiatives to the Minister of Justice, Paul Dmitrovitch Petrenko. Please. Under the reduced procedure, no objection? None. I'm asking you to support the proposal to consider the issue with a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[12:46:27]] For 212 Decision taken. Please, Paul Dmitrovich. When you have to add time, we'll do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-06-m0.u51	Dear colleagues, the honourable chairman! Allow me to present the first draft of a law introduced by the Government of Ukraine to Parliament regarding the conduct of the All-Ukrainian Advisory Survey on 25 May 2014. The purpose of this bill is to ensure that the relevant All-Ukrainian Advisory Survey is conducted on 25 May this year at the same time as the election of the President of Ukraine. The bill proposes to establish that the organization of the preparation and conduct of the All-U.S. Advisory Survey is carried out in a manner that is determined by valid legislation, taking into account the specificity of the preparations for the election of the President on the basis of the appropriate electoral committees that are in fact now in place and are preparing the voting process for the election of the President. And this bill foresees the possibility for the Supreme Council of Ukraine to make decisions by its own decisions on issues that may be referred to this survey and which are of social importance. This bill, in addition to removing a whole range of issues that are now emerging in the East of Ukraine, also provides an opportunity to save considerable budget for the organization and conduct of the survey. Because we're actually using that base and that funding that's being made for the presidential election. We suggest that the Supreme Council of Ukraine, when adopting the law, by its decision, define the list of issues that are now urgent and important to society and submit them for appropriate polling during the President's election. The bill was worked out by the government with the Central Election Commission. The Central Election Commission confirmed that if it was accepted today and accepted. Parliament will be able to organize the preparation and survey process on 25 May of this year. In addition to this bill, the government is also proposing changes to the state budget. Here I would like to point out that, in fact, the cost of making ballots is only about 30 million dollars. We're actually saving almost a billion dollars because we're doing this poll together with the presidential election. Furthermore, as far as I know, the Parliamentary and faction leaders have submitted two Supreme Council rulings to Parliament on the identification of potential issues that may be addressed in this country-wide survey. I ask Parliament to support this bill on the basis and in general, taking into account the proposals made by the leaders of the respective factions of the majority who proposed in the text of the law to replace the words "all-U.S. Advisory Survey" with "all-U.S. Advisory Referendum", both in the title and in the text of the law itself. After the discussion, please identify and decide.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-06-m0.u52	I'm the only one, Paul Dmitrovitch, I'm asking you right now, and on two questions, please announce that we don't go back to that.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-06-m0.u53	and determine the appropriateness of adopting this law. With regard to the questions that are proposed by the deputies of the relevant draft regulations, the first ruling for Parliament to be passed on to the relevant referendum or to the question of the following content: "Do you support the territorially whole Ukraine within the territory defined by the Constitution of Ukraine as a sovereign, independent, democratic, unitary and European state with broad powers of the regions and territorial communities?" This question is proposed to be put to the appropriate vote on May 25, 2014. Another decision is broader, it is proposed as an alternative to discussion by members of parliament, and it provides, in addition to this issue, for the second question to be raised: "Do you support the introduction of appropriate local councils in separate territories of use alongside the Russian or other languages spoken by most of the population of the territory concerned as regional languages whose official status is defined by the law of Ukraine?" In this regard, we suggest that you consider this package of legislative initiatives that have been taken both by the government and by individual people's deputies to make appropriate decisions on the relevance of the holding of the relevant advisory referendum and the bringing forward of the questions that I have announced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-06-m0.u54	Thank you. The word is given to the head of the Committee on Budgets, Mr. Eugène Borisovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-06-m0.u55	Dear Alexander Valentinovich! Dear National Deputies! Draft Law No. 4809 was not considered at the Committee on Budget Issues because the draft Law was introduced by the Government on May 5 and was registered only the day before. This bill is systematically linked to the government's draft law on the conduct of the May 25, 2014, EU referendum, number 4801, and provides for budgetary security for such a survey. Yes, it is proposed to increase the expenditure of the Central Electoral Commission by 30.8 million dollars, especially under the "Leading of Elections and Referendums Management" programme, and by 3,800 thousand for the proper functioning of the Elections system and the new budget programme for the holding of an all-U.S. referendum with an expenditure of 30 million dollars. In order to support the public budget expenditure, it is envisaged to reduce expenditure under the budget programme on government capital expenditure allocated by the Cabinet of Ministers, which has not been used in the course of the year. That is, the implementation of the bill does not require additional costs of the State budget, as it provides for the redistribution of State budget expenditure by inter-budgetary programmes without changing the overall expenditure rates of the State budget. So the bill is balanced. Also in connection with the holding of the midterm election of the National Deputies on May 25, there is a proposal for a budget programme under code 6731020 to be called “the holding of the midterm election of the People’s Deputies. ” In view of the above, Bill No. 4809 must be determined directly by the Supreme Council. In the event of a positive decision under Bill No. 4801. As a result of the review and adoption of the decision on Bill No. 4809, the Committee on Budget Issues, together with the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council, should, in the drafting of such legislation, introduce an appropriate technical and legal system.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-06-m0.u56	Let me finish. Is that it?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-06-m0.u57	Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-06-m0.u58	Dear colleagues, the head of the profile committee, we are now giving the floor to Zwania to David Vajaevich. Please, two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-06-m0.u59	Dear colleagues, the committee has not considered the matter by decree, so let the room be determined, let the discussion take place. I'm even against this survey. The committee did not receive any documents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-06-m0.u60	I ask you, David Vazajevich, you need your personal position as head of the committee to say. But I think the MPs are going to express it during the performances. Colleagues, distinguished national MPs, you will now have the opportunity to speak. Why such urgent questions? Because when we want to make decisions on May 25th, there is actually no time left. We need to print a newsletter, we need to get a divorce, we need to run this process, and it's a very complex technology problem. That's why, dear fellows, we're in breach of procedure with you. I ask you to sign up for the speeches of the people's deputies, because the very important question is, we need to make a political determination. Please sign up. Please, Your Honor, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, National MP of Peace.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-06-m0.u61	Please pass the word to Oleg Tuggnibok.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-06-m0.u62	Oleg Tuggnibok, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. This raises several questions. The first question is, can you do any survey, plebiscite or referendum, actually, under machine guns? When a part of Ukraine is now occupied by enemy armies. In time, Hitler held such a referendum in March 1938. They entered Austria, imposed a referendum there, and received more than 90 percent for supporting Austria’s annexation. In the summer of 1940, Stalin did the same thing when his troops were temporarily in Estonia, Latvia, and Lithuania, and under machine guns, the temporary finding of them in the area ended with occupation of those territories. The second question. Will it stop our decision today to act as separatists, and will it stop our decision to act as terrorists and diversors who have come from Moscow and who are now being led by Moscow? They have very different plans. And because we're going to make this decision, whether we're going to adopt this decision, we're going to continue the crime and civil opposition in the eastern and southern regions of Ukraine. The very agreement to go to such a referendum right now is actually a recognition that we are going to go to the political demands of Putin, who puts several of these requirements before us: federalization, language, and our neutrality. If we respect ourselves as a state, we have no right to do so. Nor should we be happy to think that our present decision will stop the problems in the East and in the South. That's why the Freedom faction isn't ready to vote for similar decisions right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-06-m0.u63	Dear colleagues, I only want to comment briefly on the fact that it is not a federalisation, but rather that the whole of Ukraine supports the territorial integrity of Ukraine within the territory defined by the Constitution of Ukraine as a sovereign, independent, democratic, unitary European state with broad powers of the regions of the territorial communities. Dear colleagues, this is a position that unites Ukraine, which says that we, the whole of Ukraine, are in favor of a unitary whole state, and this is a positive one that will not allow Putin or anyone else to speculate around these problems -- to tell us that Ukraine wants federalization. Therefore, colleagues, this question must be supported. Please, National Deputy Knazevitch, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-06-m0.u64	Thank you, Alexander Valentinovich. Dear colleagues! First of all, I want to tell you that this whole discussion around whether we can conduct an advisory survey as far as it fits the Constitution doesn't make any sense. Because the government is absolutely right when it proposes such a form of national will. This form is envisioned in 69 articles of the Constitution. There are elections, referendums, and other forms of national will. And in fact, that was the form that existed in Ukraine before 2012. It was eliminated along with the Ukrainian and All - Ukrainian Local Referendums Act when the Law on the All - Ukrainian Referendum was passed, which unfortunately has no place to even try. So, honourable colleagues, what we can now do is we can do this consultative survey for a special, one-time action by law, is really the solution that is actually possible in this situation. And here we have to give our dues to the government. They proposed a form that is only acceptable in this situation. However, I think that some technical legal work should be done. Because there are nuances that need to be taken into account. I'm talking to the government. Dear colleagues! I wouldn't be referring to the All-U.S. referendum Act right now, and I haven't legitimized it for once. And since you are correctly predicting that all procedures should coincide with the election of the President of Ukraine, we should write that those procedures, which are not provided for by this law, are being carried out in the order envisaged for the election of the President of Ukraine. And that is to predict both the principal body of the law and the transitional positions. That's the first one. The other one. I think it would be absolutely right and logical to write certain things that are not reflected in the Presidential Elections Act. For example, it is written that the forms of the ballot are approved by the Central Election Commission. But it's not written who makes them, it's the protocols. And forms of protocols and ballot papers. I believe that this right should be passed to the Central Electoral Commission by this law. More than that. I think we need to clean up the time when the radio and Ukrainian television broadcasts will take place. Because it says between 19 and 22 hours. And this time it's been "killed" by the President's Elections Act, under the presidential acknowledgment. And we have. Twenty-two numbers are dead all the time. So I'm asking you to just remove and assign to the National Broadcasting Company, let them themselves search out the time available for this broadcast. You can't have one law.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-06-m0.u65	Let me finish, let me speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-06-m0.u66	As for the important nuance. Please remove the possibility of signing a board member on a referendum ballot. It's not in any election law. It's going to be technology when people don't know that there's going to be a corresponding member of the commission and there's going to be a huge number of invalid ballots. When we removed this from the election laws, the number of invalid ballots we had dropped at the same time. It's an important thing. And there are some other things that relate to technological refinement: clearing out the notion of "lists of voters in the referendum" to change them to "lists of voters". And some of my proposals, which relate exclusively to this editorial character, I'm going to hand over the Cabinet of Ministers accordingly, and I'm asking you to carry out a technical and legal drafting of this bill with my rights, because, to me, they are extremely important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-06-m0.u67	Please, National Deputy Martinjak, Sovereign European Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-06-m0.u68	Please pass the word to Litvina Volodymyr Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-06-m0.u69	Vladimir Mikhailovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-06-m0.u70	Dear Head, honourable national deputies, let us answer the key question before we move to making a decision. What do we want to achieve by adopting this document: legalizing Ukraine’s dissipation? I think it'll be guaranteed. I support what Oleg Tuggnibok said. If we are convinced that up to 25 numbers, before the election and this referendum or poll, the anti-terrorist operation will be completed, let's do it. We're about to be with you with a high degree of credibility, and we can tell you what the results will be all over the country and in every particular area. Today, we can say that in the eastern and part of the southern areas of Ukraine, we have reason to ask for them to be included in the Russian Federation. Isn't that obvious? So the proposal is, dear colleagues, let's adopt the law of Ukraine, where we will answer the questions of Ukraine's security status, the question of unitary decentralization, the question of solving the language problem, and so forth, and we'll see that this law is going to be a component of change to the Constitution of Ukraine. Everything else, there is great fear, there is a great sense that these good intentions will pave the way for division, for increased opposition in Ukraine. Therefore, the request must be made: A very careful and responsible decision must be made. I have great doubts about the appropriateness of adopting this law today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-06-m0.u71	Thank you. People's deputy Heratchenko. Dear colleagues! Here the smell came from a hot wire. It was so intensely voted that the MPs from "BACK" even lit up the remote. Dear colleagues! Now we're going to fix this problem. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-06-m0.u72	Pucker, Pucker's word.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-06-m0.u73	Please, Valery Paccan.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-06-m0.u74	Dear colleagues! The Political Strike faction doesn't mind having free will in Ukraine, but not now and not at that time. We understand very well that free will is now going to be under the guns. Understand correctly, today's referendum is the final point in the East of Ukraine. You can't go now, you can't go. Let's postpone, let's propose a referendum after all the armed separatists, terrorists will put up weapons when our citizens, in Ukraine's citizens, have their point of view, not the imposed point of view of the pro-Russian media. The faction of the political party strike against today's vote in favour of such a referendum. We're willing to vote in favour of the referendum, but if it's suspended and if it's in a constitutional way. At this point in time, there are no referendums, no laws. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-06-m0.u75	Thank you. Dear colleagues! The projects that we've just discussed have brought in the Cabinet of Ministers. I ask the Prime Minister to comment on the speeches of our colleagues. Please turn on his microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-06-m0.u76	Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! We have two problems right now. The first problem is banditry, terrorism, and anticonstitutional separatism. Those who shoot civilians, those who shoot Ukrainian military personnel, those who torture them, cut their bellies, and drown, and kill activists, should be isolated by law in every way possible. And for that, there is an anti-terrorist operation in Ukraine. Now there's a second part that's much more important and much bigger both in quantity and in quality. These are people who live in the east and the center, in the west and in the south, some of whom fall under Russian propaganda, some of whom have believed in the myth that the east is not heard. It's a strange thing about what the East hears, because the Party of Regions and Janukovitch, in fact, from the east of 12 years, ruled the country, and we're only 2 months old. But in order to put the political solution aside, we have to demonstrate to the whole of Ukraine and say, "We're not afraid of a national survey as an advisory referendum that has very different legal consequences than a classic referendum." Let's make a decision, ask people, let people come to the polls and vote: they're the only one, unitary Ukraine with extended powers or against. Without an instrument of political dialogue, only an antiterrorism operation cannot be solved. That security and political problem that is now in Ukraine. That's why our arsenal should have ATO tools -- once, and two other tools. This is a new edition of the Constitution and this is an advisory survey. So the position of government. We need to vote, we need to do it, and we'll see the results. I think that the result will be a serious signal for further unification of Ukraine and for legitimizing the decentralization of power and amending the Constitution with regard to the granting of additional powers to regions. The machines will fail sooner or later. We'll catch the terrorists. But this will not remove the political problem. So I ask you to look two steps forward. We need to film the political problem, then it will be too late, Your Honor. You can't repeat Yanukovich, who was late for the week. This led to hundreds of casualties. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-06-m0.u77	Thank you, Arsenia Petrovich. I see it so well that the hands that insist on the floor are the deputies. Please, Other God’s Word. Then there's Mikola Rudzkowski. In a minute, we'll make a decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-06-m0.u78	Dear colleagues, I think, first of all, it's right to look for a political answer. But we need to understand that we are trying to hide our heads in the sand. Today the authorities do not need to conduct a survey that shows weakness, as the authorities need to avoid holding a referendum on May 11. And that's the main thing. If we do not allow the referendum to take place on May 11, then we can talk about making a political decision. And if we allow a referendum to be held on 11th, conducting a survey is an absolute weakness. So let's go this way. If we see today absolutely 100 percent that the authorities have achieved that the 11th referendum will not be held. By the way, this is the role of the Attorney General's Office, the Ministry of Justice, and you don't have to be afraid, so please protect the performers.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-06-m0.u79	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-06-m0.u80	On the eve of the referendum, May 11th, a special operation should be performed, a special one. If we see that 11 did not hold a referendum, 13 on Tuesday, I'm sure the hall will support a nationwide referendum, a poll, I'm sorry. If we allow May 11th, the election is just a humiliation of the state. So I'm going to ask you to take this approach and decide. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-06-m0.u81	One minute, Rudzkowski, and we'll be done.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-06-m0.u82	I am now addressing the Secretary of Defense, which means the First Deputy Prime Minister. Dear colleagues, if indeed, give us the opportunity to listen to the minister of defense. So if you let 11 numbers go along with a strong block of referendums, they're going to be advertised by people who call themselves governors and so on. 12 numbers, so 12 numbers will be Russian troops already in these two areas just as it was in Crimea and 25 non-referendum votes and not in the election of the President will no longer be in the Lugansk and Donetsk regions. The second question. So if you provide, then please, in a referendum on unitality, remove the European state so that you don't get annoyed in the East. And second, call Russian official, not regional, and then this.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-06-m0.u83	Dear colleagues, I ask you to calm down. The only nuance is about the so-called referendum. It's not a so-called 11 referendum, it's not even a sociological survey, because a sociological survey needs to be representative of the election. It's a farce, and no one is going to hold this referendum, people are just going to come out and talk about some results, sorry, any sick person can come out and talk about some results they don't have. They don't even have a voter list, there's no decision on that. So, dear colleagues, this farce may be announced, but there will never be a referendum held by separatists. It's off. I'm asking Arsenija Petrovich to answer the questions he was asked. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-06-m0.u84	It is clear that you have your own logic, and it also has the right to life. But there is another logic, and I would like to listen to it. Other, without having a legitimate advisory referendum right now, we're allowing separatists to speak and shout in all the pipes that Kiev didn't hear. We want to go and vote, and they refused to give us the opportunity to go and vote in an advisory referendum. So we're going to have 11 referendums. And their argument will be much stronger than yours is this time. Second, if you think about what the 11th-number referendum is going to be, I'll tell you what: a couple of terrorists, three men, come in five Russian channels and say, we held a referendum. You've seen what happened in Crimea. [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, can you? Well, wait, don't shout! Don't be nervous! If 11 numbers come in, and it's the same thing as it was in Crimea. You've seen that just now, the President's official public council has declared that there are only 15 percent of the votes. So what is the idea? If you do not give people the legal right to come to the precinct and place a cross, they are much stronger than they are today. This is one time. The other one. There will be no referendum of a legal 11 number. And the third. The adoption of this law allows us to say one thing across the country through social roles: there is a legitimate constitutional advisory referendum, everything else is a lie, everything else is separatism, and everything else is the support of terrorists. That's why we're going with this referendum.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-06-m0.u85	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'm the only one who wants to inform you, who doesn't know, there's already been a referendum this week on Sunday. Yesterday. And all of them. There 90 percent voted in favour of Ukraine's only Sunday. They also conducted the same public activists in Donetsk, you know. But they are public activists without machine guns, and they also released results that the entire Donetsk region and Lugansk (mostly, sorry) supported an independent Ukraine. So they can announce a referendum every day. I know they're announcing the leadership of the Donbasa Dnipropetrov district referendum on joining the Dnipropetrov region and so on. I mean, there can be a lot of these formats, colleagues. But we either hold an official referendum, or we don't, and that's a question for the people's deputies to answer right now. Dear colleagues, I ask that we do. I can't say no to the Prime Minister. Colleagues don't get into trouble here, but they're making decisions right now. Please, Arseny Petrovich. And we'll vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-06-m0.u86	And let me do the last one. This seriously raises the motivation for the eastern regions to go to elections. Well, it's an additional electoral legitimacy tool. So whoever's speaking out against the referendum, I'm telling you what negatives we're going to get. Name one plus why you don't need a referendum. One but serious, reasoned. And let's really have a discussion, and just like that: there's a referendum of 11. So it will or will not be – it is not a referendum, a coincidence of some misunderstood person.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-06-m0.u87	People's Deputy Mosheński, please. From Luhansk.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-06-m0.u88	Arsenius Petrovich, listen to me, please. A referendum can be held where there is power. I told you today, Luhansk has no authority. There are 7 per cent of the armed people who will come to the referendum and vote will vote. The Presidential elections would not be voted in favour, but would be voted in favour of 100 per cent, because 7 per cent would come. The rest of the people won't come because you can't help but know that you can't keep people safe. People won't go when the machine guns. There will be pussies on them. Don't fool yourself! If we can make arrangements, we need to hold a referendum. And if we want to hold a referendum for seven per cent that will vote a hundred per cent for the office, that's what we'll get. Why lie? Let's take a better law that Litwin adds that people will believe us. Do you think people are so bad that they can be divorced and deceived? It won't work!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-06-m0.u89	Dear colleagues, I think the Lugani MP supports an active referendum. The point is, the honourable colleagues, the Prime Minister, made very clear the arguments, the arguments concrete: we must unite the country around its unity, integrity, territorial integrity, and we must speak clearly of one of the positions that we have spoken of many times in the hall and say that we should extend the rights of local councils, local self - government. No one, neither right nor left, denies it. And this is also a question that I hope will be supported by the Ukrainian people. On the second issue of status, the official status of languages in the areas where most of these languages speak. That question needs, let's say, a separate vote. But on the first question, dear colleagues, there is no statement of objection regarding Ukraine's only Sunday. Well, there could be objections to the only machine guns, machine guns. We're for the only Ukraine, for its territorial integrity. What are we talking about? So, dear fellows, let's just say that we're having a sleepover, we're three times the same subject. I'm asking you to take your seats. Colleagues, I gave you all my word. [[B in m in s a l in]] There won't be any votes, so there won't be. All right, factions. Sign up for factions. One minute from the factions, please. I'll give it to you, David Vajaevich, I'll give it to you. People's MP Novak, impact faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-06-m0.u90	Please pass the word Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-06-m0.u91	Please, Irina Heratschenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-06-m0.u92	Dear colleagues, this survey story is a little bit like the Constitution, which we're also saying is that we're going to accept some version by May 25. And that's how two specific areas of the center are blackmailed. There is no strong state with a weak center, and then there are strong regions. That's the first story. And a second. It seems to us that we are losing this war, primarily in terms of information war. Why do we have to start the videos after the referendum, not now? And that's why I think this position of our faction that the government doesn't need to work out state information policy in the context of the information war at all in three months, but right now. We have a Vice-Prime Minister from humanitarian issues, we have a Derteleradio, we have a Security and Defence Council not only to walk on air, but to have a clear information policy in the context of an information war. And taking a position on the miners, how much money they stole in the previous years, how much the center counted. That it's an absolute blackmail of these same regional "princes" to stay on streams, and that it's a referendum, absolutely right colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-06-m0.u93	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-06-m0.u94	You know, it's very wrong when we're in such difficult conditions now, not blackmailing even the regions, but people who want to stop, staying on corruption streams, and we can't bring this story to the regions. Maybe we should start with another, from the information campaign, from the information firm of the government, from Nacrada's appointment, which can finally stop the separatist channels in Odessa, and then talk about the polls. We don't even think about it, as the Ukrainian channels don't work there, what kind of survey in the regions can happen if there's no Ukrainian channels? That's what you're talking about. And there's going to be Russian 24's, ORT, RTR, they're stressing this in this referendum, that you can't put it on your head, people are good!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-06-m0.u95	National MP Martinjak.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-06-m0.u96	Mr. Head, please pass the word to Donya.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-06-m0.u97	Please turn on Olesia Donya's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-06-m0.u98	So far, it looks like there's a referendum down here that doesn't look like positives. The referendum should be held if a vote can be guaranteed both throughout Ukraine and in each of the territorial units, otherwise it will be like a hunchback referendum. In April 1990, I recall that Gorbachev held almost the same question about the union of the Union with the greater rights of the regions of the referendum. He raised more than 80 percent throughout the country, but only the Baltic Republics did not support this issue, and they gained independence. In Ukraine, four regions — three Galician regions and Kiev — were not supported. And according to counter-agitation, they then covered up all the consequences of the Gorbachev referendum. Instead, a positive referendum was held in 1991 when Igor Raphailovich Yukhnovsky proposed, and both Ukraine and each region, Sevastopol and Crimea were voted. Until we secure a vote in each region, first control, including military, cannot hold a referendum.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-06-m0.u99	Thank you. Dear colleagues, National MP Martinjuk, Freedom.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-06-m0.u100	Please pass the word to Oleg Tuggnibok.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-06-m0.u101	Please turn on Oleg Pullibok's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-06-m0.u102	I wanted to say the same thing. Everyone knows exactly how this is going to end. It ends up being that since the anti-terrorist operation is being carried out fluently, today, by the way, Debalcevo is excited, and so up to 25 numbers, they will be able to control most of the Donetsk and Lugansk regions. Obviously, they're going to draw any number in Sevastopol and Crimea after this referendum. As a result, Ukraine is voting in one way, the Donetsk and Lugansk region, including because there is no information support for Ukraine, and, on the contrary, Russian propaganda is going to vote in its own way. And this will give them reason to turn to Putin to bring their armies there with appropriate results. And with regard to the presidential election, I would like to remind you that the presidential election may happen that the President can choose a person if he is not voted in some areas. Therefore, it is not right to compare presidential elections and this referendum. It is dangerous for Ukraine’s territorial integrity.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-06-m0.u103	Pavlovsky's National Deputy, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-06-m0.u104	Please give the floor to the distinguished John Grigorovich Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-06-m0.u105	Please turn on the microphone of the distinguished John Grigorovich Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-06-m0.u106	Dear colleagues, Mr. Alexander Valentinovich, there will be no question in the Hall, so let us note that all world leaders, the World Society, are closely following up events in Ukraine regarding the presidential election. This will be a powerful blow to separatism and external influence. So I'm proposing, and our faction will probably also be proposing, focusing on the very issues that will allow us to hold the presidential election, to make all the possible and impossible decisions that only in this room can we make to hold the presidential election. This will be the best option to combat separatism for the only independent sovereign Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-06-m0.u107	Dear colleagues! Last performance. Kinakh Anatoly Kirilovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-06-m0.u108	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! Clearly, this has been emphasized repeatedly today, in addition to conducting an antiterrorist operation, we need to strengthen the dialogue in Ukraine, a feedback to our citizens. That's why the referendum is about, and I'm absolutely sure that the Ukrainian people are going to vote for a territorially whole unitary state, and that's not only important to us -- and to the world community. Secondly, in the process of preparing and holding a referendum, it is even more important to bring our citizens to our citizens, that further delegation of broad powers to local communities, that this is the basis for the drafting of a new Constitution within the framework of the parliamentary-presidential state system. And that's what we're doing is we're taking down the huge number of leaks that the aggressors use. We support the need for an all-U.S. advisory referendum. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-06-m0.u109	Thank you. Dear colleagues! I gave everyone a chance to speak. We exchanged thoughts. And now we have to make decisions. I will now ask each question in turn, starting with the draft Act on the conduct of the nationwide national referendum survey on 25 May 2014. This is Project 4801. If he gets the support of the hall, then we'll be asking and voting other questions. If he doesn't get the support of the hall, then the next vote loses meaning. So, dear fellows, I ask you to calm down. I ask you to put your hands down. We've been through twice, two laps. Well, what are you gonna do? And now we're going to make a decision on support as a whole. Because there is virtually no time for discussion between us and the second reading when we want to implement this project, draft Law 4801. Draft Law on the conduct of the All-Ukrainian Advisory Survey on 25 May 2014 – on the basis and in general. The only suggestion was to make an amendment: "a consultative referendum (inquiries)." With the word "referendum." That's the question. We haven't gotten to the point yet. It's a general law. We're not talking about questions right now. We're talking now about the very content of the law. Please, Your Honor, determine this question by voting. Take as a whole. Please vote. [[13:29:10]] For-154 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Region Party – 1, Fatherland – 76; 25 – Impact; 19 – Economic Development; 11 – Sovereign European Ukraine; 0 – Freedom; 0 – Company; non-fractional – 22. Dear colleagues, I don't put the following questions to the vote. Because they have no point in discussing it. Because the question can only be adopted when the law on the holding of this referendum has been passed. Dear colleagues, (now, now), we have a few more questions. Colleagues and I ask that we stay together, colleagues. And then I see that the number of deputies in the room is decreasing. Very important, responsible questions. It's a day's work, dear fellows. We need to finish. And here are a few very important questions that we need to vote on. 4802, Sanchenko Andry Vilenovich. Draft law on the protection of the rights, freedoms of citizens and the legal regime in the temporarily occupied territory. This is a change to this law on the right to education. Dear colleagues! There's an offer to put it in the agenda. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. [[13:30:36]] For 228 Dear colleagues, the decision is made, we have included. I'm asking you to sit on your jobs, colleagues, and press the buttons so I don't put three votes to it. Please support this project as a whole. Please be supportive. [[13:31:05]] For 236 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the following questions reported by the minister of the interior of Habakkuk’s affairs, and the hall warmly supported them. I ask, by the way, to contact Henprocuror, he's either there or he's not. Dear colleagues, these are the three laws that Habakkuk spoke of. The first law of 4819 is on the retirement of persons released from military service and some others. The point is that in the event of their return to a special period of retirement, to the ranks of the Armed Forces, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, and so forth, they have a pension. Do you understand the meaning of the law, fellow believers? There is a request to support it by first incorporating it into the order of the day. Please vote 4819. [[13:32:10]] For 240 These are pensions they're still getting, Arsenija Petrovich. They're already getting these pensions. But now we ask them to fight, and they must continue to receive these pensions, even protecting the Motherland. That's logical and correct. Honorable colleagues, on the basis and in general, can we vote? We can. Please be supportive. 4819. [[13:32:44]] For 236 Thank you. Decision taken. The next question is, the esteemed colleagues, the economy itself, Arsenija Petrovich, a significant economy for the state budget. It's about the Law (4820), respectively, which is called "To amend certain laws regarding the payment of one-off cash to those military and militias who have betrayed and left behind not in the Ukrainian army and the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Security Service, but have gone to the side of the Russian occupation to not pay them." Because they were formally released from service so that they would not be paid their weekend benefits. I think to all who.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-06-m0.u110	Confessed as traitors.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-06-m0.u111	Dear colleagues, I don't think there's any objection to the support of this law that it's giving you over a billion dollars of revenue for the budget, an economy that's more budget-y. [[B in m in s a l in]] I understand, Your Honor. 4820. Please support the inclusion of this law in the order of the day. [[13:34:05]] For 237 Decision taken. Thank you. Please support this project as a whole, 4820. Please vote. [[13:34:25]] For 239. Thank you. Decision taken. And the final question that was raised in the debate and supported by the national deputies is the draft of Law 4821 on military duty and military service. It's about letting the Ministry of Internal Affairs work. Now, colleagues. Allowing young people to work at the Ministry of Internal Affairs for their own, I emphasize, wishes for up to 25 years. Because now there's only a 25-year limit. No objection, dear colleagues?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-06-m0.u112	From the 18th.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-06-m0.u113	From the 14th.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-06-m0.u114	No, no, come on, Oleg Valeriyovich, no fanaticism, I'm asking you from 18 to 25 years of age, you can take, from 18 years of age, conditionally, and above. Please insert 4821 into the agenda. [[13:35:33]] For 234 Decision taken. And I ask for a basis and a general vote. So that Anatoly Stepanovich does not accuse me of subjectivism, please turn on the microphone. Grizzenko, a national MP, from this question.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-06-m0.u115	Mr. Head, I was warned by the word "last," when you called this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-06-m0.u116	Not the last one, no!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-06-m0.u117	I've been talking to you. 2124.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-06-m0.u118	He's not the last one. I said the last one to bring in the Minister of Internal Affairs. I'm sure I will, but we still have a lot of laws to support. Therefore, fellow believers, no problem! That's the last of the package that was imported by the muscle. It's 4821. Please support him as a whole. Please vote. [[13:36:33]] For 235 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we have a few more questions. Real three. Calm down! Three questions. First question, I'll give the word to Anatoly Grizzenko, we'll adopt the Law that he insists on in the first reading. Now, Anatoly Stepanovich, I'm finished. The issue concerns the pension insurance of military personnel. Next. Let's think about it briefly, it's a normal project, but on the first reading, because there's a need for the government to still work. The next question, fellow believers, is Law 4813. Attention! This law relates to the holding of presidential elections. I would like to draw the attention of the people's deputies that holding presidential elections is also a system for protecting our national security. And we have to do everything we can to hold the presidential election. And that's why this law provides that there may be difficulties when there are divisional commissions in areas where there are, let's say, anti-terrorist operations. And this law clearly solves the problem of trying to block the work of these district committees. And the third question is the short law, the addition to the Amnesty Act, because we have passed a very important Amnesty Act, but on technical issues, we have missed a very serious problem that does not allow this law to work effectively. It's a little bit of a readjustment we're going to take, I hope. And the amnesty issue for many people who can be free in Ukraine and work for their own state, I hope it will be resolved today. So, honourable colleagues, these three questions -- and then we can take the risk of our work today being effective. Anatoly Stepanovich, please, briefly. Under the reduced procedure, please support the decision. The number of the law, Anatoly, tell me.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-06-m0.u119	2124.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-06-m0.u120	2124, please, for the summary procedure. [[13:38:57]] For 213 Decision taken. Guys, don't break up, I'm begging you. Please report to Anatoly Stepanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-06-m0.u121	Dear colleagues, there's no press, there's no pianist, there's no election -- that's the point. What I'm going to say is essentially the law, everyone will quickly understand and agree, in general, not the first reading, because it's been discussed for several years. As the head of the committee now headed by Vladimir Litwin, I held all these meetings with the government, and he held one-stop-shop support. What's the point? If a civilian civil servant dies, his disabled wife receives 70 percent of his wages. If the military dies, the military, the air force, the border guard, whatever, is only 40, less money. The point of the law is to level it up, fair, reasonable. The cost is about 280 million. Believe me, right now, in these circumstances, when our soldiers are killed, we need to support them and accept them all at once. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-06-m0.u122	Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this issue? None. Can we vote on the basis? I'm asking you to support this as a basis. I see your hands. On the basis of that, respectable colleagues, on the basis of that. And then by a reduced procedure, because this is an important question, I agree with Anatoly Stepanovich, it's a really important question. And these people. I say again, there is. They're holding the hand, they're trying to supplement this law. In short, we'll take it for granted. Next week already. Please support this law. Please vote. [[13:40:55]] For 228 Decision taken. I'd like to ask you for a brief procedure right away. Please don't leave two very important questions. I ask for a reduced procedure to vote on this law. [[13:41:18]] For 223 Colleagues, please, let's support the reduced procedure. Come on. Take your seats. I ask you, Secretariat, to announce that all deputies come in for 15 more minutes to work -- very important questions. Colleagues, please. Please, hold on. Support me, Jaroslav, please. It's a short-term procedure. For a reduced procedure, that's fine. Please vote, Your Honor. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please vote in favour of the summary procedure. Please vote. [[13:42:00]] For 237 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, the following question No.4813 about making changes to article 24 — no one is divorcing! – Ukraine's Election Act of the President of Ukraine (to reduce the minimum number of members of the electoral boards). Please, who will report this law? National Deputy Carpunz, please. [[B in m in s a l in]] Is there support? Yes. Please include it in the agenda. Please, Your Honor, vote. That's trust in each other's deputies! [[13:42:42]] For 243 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, let's take this as a basis and as a whole. Is that a good offer? Please support as a whole. 13:43:03 For 244 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, Andriy Anatolyevich, one minute for the law. Where's Mohnicki? Come on, Andriy Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-06-m0.u123	Dear colleagues, we have passed the Amnesty Act 2014 with you, which is based on the basic Amnesty Act in Ukraine in general. Unfortunately, the penitentiary service has already turned to us, to the Supreme Court, law enforcement agencies, and law enforcement organizations. Unfortunately, there's a rule in the basic law that was established in 2011 (I won't say who) that a person can go free, which has committed a simple economic crime only after he pays the damages. There's a lot of women accountants, small business managers who've been planted by taxpayers, by the police in the zones, and they can't get out because they can't pay 10,000 dollars. They have no relatives who could give them. We're canceling this rule, and these people are going to come out and work in freedom and pay off the debt to the state. All of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-06-m0.u124	4791. Is he in the agenda, Andriy Anatolyevich? Not included, is it? Dear colleagues, there is a request for us to perform a humane function in Parliament. The committee supported 4791. Ladies and gentlemen, please include him in the order of the day. 4791. Please vote. [[13:44:50]] For 241 Decision taken. Please accept as a whole. Please vote. [[13:45:07]] For 239. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, today we have implemented and reformed the plan. But we have to have the Attorney General now who's filing for separatists. And we can't break up, can we? - until this decision is made. Please, let's do the factions. It is a matter of submitting to a national representative of the Kingdom, who has for a long time been actually abusing the country of which he is a citizen. I am convinced that an assessment of such abuse, such a challenge by Ukraine, should now be given by the Supreme Council. I'm asking you, as long as the D.A.'s right, let's write this down from the factions. He's said to be in Parliament. Sign up for factions. Dear colleagues, the Freedom faction. Please, National Deputy Michalchisin. Dear colleagues, I see that many deputies have left the hall, and we can't do it now.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-06-m0.u125	I propose today to all the national deputies who have been registered in the hall and who will now be absent, who will not take part in this vote, to consider the same traitors as those who will be deprived of your mandates. Because some traitors with machine guns and others with mandates. I'm asking all my colleagues today to address this as historical. For the first time, the Ukrainian Parliament has voted in half - war and war conditions to disarm the counter - revolution and disarm the traitors. Everyone should be in their jobs right now. Just like our paratroopers, our special forces, our border guards today carry their fighting watch on the eastern, southern borders, just like we do in every day our fighting place here in Parliament. So I urge once again all the heads of factions, MPs, individual national MPs to return to the hall and now make a historic decision. For the first time in the history of Ukrainian Parliamentarians, traitors with parliamentary mandates must be punished. No one will be able to hide behind this parliamentary mandate as a wall-to-wall, no one will be able to escape responsibility, and finally we will begin to keep our pre-election promises, and what we now promise our constituents when they demand decisive, adequate hardness from us.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-06-m0.u126	Thank you, Your Honor. National MP Blackwolf.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-06-m0.u127	Dear Alexander Valentinovich, I wanted to support the Freedom faction and say that we worked so well without communists and regionals. First of all, let's vote to continue this regime without communists, without regionals, and in closed mode. (Applause) Secondly, I support the exclusion of the entire faction of Communists from the deputies and the entire faction of the regions. That's very right.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-06-m0.u128	Please, National Deputy Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-06-m0.u129	Dear colleagues, dear Mr. Head, we would like to address this issue not only today, after the speech of the Knavekite, but that our noble power structures should at least delay someone once in their lives rather than let him out of the country, as it did with Yanukovich and others. The other one. Mr. Chairman, please also ask the Attorney General's Office to submit a similar application to those deputies that we know are financing separatism. The same Johnishenko, who does not appear in the session room, the same younger Janukovich, who has such information in the power structures, needs to be deprived of parliamentary immunity today so that they can answer to the law, and that such rumors do not go around the country that they have been redeemed with money so that they do not have criminal cases brought against them. Thank you. We are ready to consider the matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-06-m0.u130	National deputy Jeremiah, please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-06-m0.u131	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs, Alexander Valentinovich, you remember how on February 20 we met here and we lacked the votes. Ruslan Kosulinsky proposed to vote with his hands, and then we all came up and said that, Ruslan, we can't do that, we can't make the first decision with our hands. This will be wrong, let's wait until nightfall, but let's all vote together. He is absolutely in agreement with the need to remove the authority of the national deputy from the Kingdom because he is working for another country. But, people's deputies, we can't do this in private, we have to do this in open mode. We voted today for the prosecutor’s right to file the application. We have to do this in an open way when we see the entire Ukrainian people. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-06-m0.u132	Dear colleagues! I think Igor Mironovich should be supported. I don't see, by the way, in the Chamber of Deputies to make the right decision. I mean it. I realize that some people picked up their cards, some of them left. So, dear fellows, let's settle two questions. First, the law must be signed in order for it to take effect. It's important, legally, that no one suspects us in anything, and I agree that we have to deal openly with such matters in an open session. We thank the Office of the Attorney-General for its operationality, which has already been filed, and I ask that the Regulatory Committee consider it by Tuesday. (Noise in the hall) Dear colleagues! And we invite the King to deprive him of his mandate in his presence. Turn on the microphone of the People’s Deputy of God’s Word.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-06-m0.u133	Dear colleagues! I'm asking for your attention! Dear colleagues! I beg of you, especially Mr. Jeremeyev. Dear colleagues! May I have your attention, please? We need to understand that on May 11, the Lugansk Kings will play one of the most important roles during the so - called referendum. He will be untouchable for the time being. He will be gathering people around him for the time being. So I now propose to the faction leaders to do everything they can to get the MPs back to the hall. And today, vote on that question. Because you and I are creating a new pseudohero that will be surrounded by anti - Ukrainian forces. I ask very careful attention right now. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-06-m0.u134	Dear colleagues! We have 181 people's deputies in this room right now. So I urge, I call on faction leaders to try to gather people. Colleagues, try to get your men together. Because, on the other hand, colleagues, we need time to print the law. This is a legal problem. The law should be (a) signed; (b) published in the newspaper Voice of Ukraine, which could only be, unfortunately, tomorrow. Dear colleagues! That's why there's an offer. Can we get together tomorrow? You see, I have a suspicion that we're going to say yes, you know, and no one's going to be in the hall. And then the Kings will be the hero when the Supreme Council doesn't support it. So, by Tuesday, dear colleagues, we're going to have to deal with all of these legal issues. I don't have a voice. My colleagues, once again, I don't want to take this matter down by voting. Please register, Your Honor. Sit down, sign up. Turn on the "Council" system. Turn on the registration of the national MPs. [[13:54:04]] There are 216 national deputies in the hall. The factions, please. Region Party 2, Fatherland 84, Impact 38, Economic Development 9, Sovereign European Ukraine 16, Freedom 35.0 KPU, 32 non-fractional. Dear colleagues! So once again, we have 2 constraints on this issue. The first restriction, I must not only sign this law, it must take effect from the moment of publication. We can organize the public tomorrow, I hope, in the newspaper Voice of Ukraine. So the option, my dear fellows, is that tomorrow we don't have the necessary number of votes. Come on, guys, we had to get together today, I want to tell you. So, dear colleagues, on Tuesday, I am convinced that we will be able to accept this issue with you as one of the first. Is there no objection? There's no objection. Therefore, dear colleagues, we will continue to work in Parliament on Tuesday. Besides, I'm addressing the hall, we have no objection to having a full transcript of today's session after the first part, when we listened to the reports of our forces? There's no objection. Dear colleagues, we will continue the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on May 13th at 10 a.m. Good-bye. Thank you for your effective and effective work.
