ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-14-m0.u1	Good morning, good morning, distinguished national MPs! Please take your seats. We're starting to work a little bit later, because very important issues are now being addressed in the second reading: the issue of combating corruption, the Public Prosecutor's Act. In this regard, these questions were literally being worked out so that they could be fully prepared for second reading. Dear colleagues, please sit down. While national MPs sit down, distinguished fellow countrymen, distinguished colleagues, I would like to extend a warm welcome to you with the Holy Mary's patronage! [[Applause]] The Festival of Protection is very important to the Ukrainian people. As our Cossacks, our Ukrainian army, especially honored their Deputy Virgin Mary. And yesterday, when we spoke with the President of Ukraine, the leaders of MP groups and factions made an offer to announce October 14 as the Day of the Ukrainian Army. And we very much hope that such an order by the President will be signed today. [[Applause]] It is a festival of Ukrainian spirit and integrity, freedom and independence. Dear friends, I will bring you health, happiness, peace, harmony, and prosperity! May the Holy Virgin's roof protect us all and the main thing is our Ukraine! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-14-m0.u2	Dear colleagues, please register. [[10:19:39]] There were 294 national deputies registered in the hall. The morning meeting of the Supreme Council is open. Dear colleagues, I would like to inform you that today's birthday is celebrated by the National Deputies: Pasinsky Sergey Volodymyrovich, Solosenko Mikola Pavlovich. Let us greet them, fellows of honor! [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, we had yesterday's Conciliation Council with the participation of the President of Ukraine, and considering that today there are so many issues that need to be addressed immediately, the President is willing to take part in the morning session of the Supreme Council. And there was a proposal, supported by the leaders of MP groups and factions, about time for announcements and speeches by MPs and factions, that this time should be given at 16 o'clock. Now, so that we can get right to the order of our day work. Dear colleagues, I'd like to make a few announcements, and right away, so that you and I can get to the decision-making process. Honorable deputies for the announcement. According to the statement and in accordance with part three of article 60 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, we report the departure of the People's Deputy of Mirimski Lviv Yuliyovich from the MP's "For Peace and Stability" group. Dear colleagues, I have been instructed by the secretariat to verify the number of this faction, more faithfully, of the MP group. In case the number is smaller than that established by the Rules, please provide me with information about the dissolution of the parliamentary group. Next announcement. I'm reporting a cancellation earlier. Excuse me, the application for the release of the Ukrainian National Deputy Iluk Artem Alexandrovich from the MP's Economic Development Group. Dear colleagues, we have a chance now. Now. Dear colleagues. There's a request from the people's deputies that we put a wire on the street. I don't deny it. And I suggest, as soon as we begin to consider the question of. Human resources issues, the prosecutor's office, so that we can immediately turn on the sound so that the citizens who are now at the Supreme Council can hear what is happening in the session room. At the same time, honourable colleagues, there is now a request for us to feel Parliament vote, to adopt a purely technical question -- this is a draft decree amending the calendar plan for the fifth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you -- maybe someone has forgotten or someone doesn't know -- that there will be elections on October 26, in addition to the election of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And in this connection, traditionally after the election of the Supreme Council, after voting for the Supreme Council, parliaments tend to work in committees and in parliamentary, pardon me, and in districts. This is the kind of proposal that the honourable colleagues make: that after October 26, Parliament should work on committees, factions and districts and meet when necessary. You realize that the situation in Ukraine is dangerous enough, it's problematic enough, and in doing so we have to get together at any time to make decisions even after October 26th, even before we swear to the new parliament. So, your honorary colleagues, the Bill of Amendments to the Calendar Plan (registration number 5158), can we vote on it as a whole? We can. Thank you, Nestor Ivanovich. Please, Your Honor, support the adoption as a basis and as a whole of the Bill of Amendments to the calendar plan for the fifth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the seventh call. Please, Your Honor, vote. Please vote. [[10:24:27]] For 273 Decision taken. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we can now move on to the main issues of the agenda. And I want to find out at the secretariat, is the President already in Parliament? If he is, please invite him to the hall. Ladies and gentlemen, I am informed that the President is already on the Supreme Council. Please invite the President of Ukraine to the Parliamentary Session Room. [[Applause]] My colleagues, I would also like to welcome Prime Minister Arsenius Petrovich Yatsenuk of Ukraine. [[Applause]] Dear National Deputies, in accordance with articles 85, 106, 114, you and I must make personnel decisions. And I, considering that this is about being a defence minister, and bringing this position into a position of conjunctivity, is the sole prerogative of the President of Ukraine, and I invite you to speak to President Peter Alexiyovich Prashenko of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-14-m0.u3	Great national MPs, dear colleagues! First of all, I would also like to welcome you to the Holy Virgin’s Cover! I am sure that Cover has always been one of the most important festivals for Ukrainians, a festival of captivating Cossacks, so great that it was called the Cossacks. That's why I decided on October 14th that he should be judged to be a new state holiday – the Day of the Protector of the Motherland. [[Applause]] I signed the proper decree yesterday. And as I promised on Independence Day, on February 23, the armed forces of another state will no longer be celebrated in Ukraine. [[Applause]] I also warmly welcome the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and our entire nation with a new holiday, which in time, I am sure, will become one of the majors in our calendar. Dear friends! Today's meeting is probably one of the last in the history of the Supreme Council of this convening. But it can be one of the most important decisions that have been made today and that are scheduled for consideration. First of all, I would like to stop at what I consider to be priority and urgent. This is especially true of the sovereignty of the State. As we know, I have decided to accept the report on the resignation of Valery Hellet as Secretary of Defense. I thank him for his loyal service to Ukraine and would ask the Supreme Council to vote for his release. I also ask you to support Stepan Poltorak's candidacy, which I have proposed, as Secretary of Defense. He doesn't need ads. But once I formally present it, the sting of Stephen Timothy would characterize it this way. A person with high authority, including those involved in the ATO, has great combat experience and strategic vision of defence sector reform. An expert who has practically created the National Guard of Ukraine from scratch on new ground. And on my last trip to the ATO zone (on Friday), I inquired about the attitude of its participants, including the ranks of Mr. Poltorak. The characteristics are extremely positive. I also recall Stepan Timothyovich's decisive actions when he, along with the Jaguar special unit, cleared the premises of the Kharkiv District Authority from the pro-Russian separatists. And this day, a project called HNR remained on paper to a large extent, thanks to coordinated decisive action. Tell me, who will not have a hand to vote for a warlord general, a patriot, a professional, and a decent man? Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? Dear colleagues, I would like to ask the President of Ukraine to speak. I would like to remind you that the reform of the defence and security sector in the national reform plan "Strategy 2020" is also a top priority. Yesterday, I had a long and meaningful conversation with a candidate for the Defense Minister. He was tasked with creating a powerful defence system for Ukraine, rebuilding the security and logistics systems of the troops, including taking into account the positive experience of the National Guard of Ukraine. At a very different level today is the issue of international cooperation, including military and military cooperation with our partners: NATO countries, the European Union, the United States of America, Canada and others. So far, there has to be an unmanaged mechanism for the Ministry of Defense's interaction with volunteers. We're building an army from scratch, and the help of volunteers, you have to admit, it doesn't take a day, not a month, not a year. And only a strong army is the best guarantee of peace, for which all of us, all the national MPs and all the people of Ukraine, fight hard. Under the conditions currently prevailing in Ukraine, the Ministry of Defence can't have a day without a head, I emphasize, no day. And so the enormous responsibility lies with us now. The army has the primary responsibility to protect the country in these difficult times. Yes, there is a need to improve rulership by modern acceptance of warfare. Some of the new high - precision weapons we just started to build. And this morning, I had negotiations with the leaders of two of our very important partners, where I was confirmed by the supply of new intelligence technology, which will greatly improve the efficiency of the use of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. Unfortunately, there are some types of high-precision weapons that we can't dream of yet, and this is going to be the task of the new Defense Minister -- to establish such effective cooperation, to demonstrate the effectiveness of our army's actions that will allow us to claim it. The army is about to be born, but the country's return is already higher than what we've been able to put into the army in six months. For my daily war effort, I bow low to Ukrainian soldiers. And to the many candidates here in the national parliaments, I also call for criticism from the army outside the electoral campaign. [[Applause]] Sometimes this criticism is fair. The truth is, really, there are no children. But the scale and tone of this criticism is such that it often pours itself out into the embezzlement and harassment of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. It is especially painful to see and hear when some of the press of Russian propaganda begins to spread violently through Ukrainian politics. [[Applause]] In fact, I understand, maybe it's not intentional, they're probably targeting political opponents, but they're kissing the Armed Forces of Ukraine by will, they're undermining Ukraine's security. Who wants to help the army, not the pharaoh, to help solve a lot of problems, friends, so it's better not on TV, welcome to the President-in-Office! We will certainly find a common language with you and someone, and I am definitely happy with any proposal that will strengthen our Armed Forces, the National Guard, the Border Service, the military-industrial complex. Dear National Deputies! There will be no exaggeration to say that in the broader sense, the issue of security is also a package of anti-corruption laws that I'm looking forward to finalizing today. Not because there's corruption in the army too. If the whole country gives the last penny to the defense, it's not just a crime, it's corruption now, it's a mortal sin. And I'm sure that corruption is our enemy no less than terrorists, fighters or mercenaries. And to minimize it, we also need an arsenal of modern high-tech weapons. That is why, as a priority, I have brought to the attention of the Supreme Council a bill that envisions the creation of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau, a special structure called to combat corruption in the environment of the highest officials of the state. The Bureau must be independent of any political influence that will guarantee its objectivity, impartiality, efficiency. I'm not asking. I demand this bill as well as three anti-corruption initiatives by the government. We carefully prepared them for the second reading together: the President, the Cabinet of Ministers, the National Deputies. The adoption of these laws is not only our duty to the people of Ukraine, it is our commitment under the Agreement of Association with the European Union, it is our commitment to a memorandum of cooperation with the International Monetary Fund, it is our commitment to the people of Ukraine. If you accept it, I'll sign it immediately, and in general it will be a testimony that Ukraine, not by word, but by deed, has begun to implement the Association Agreement. Any political force requiring immediate implementation of this agreement has a chance to prove the sincerity of its applications by upholding these laws. However, we must not forget that fighting corruption is primarily our internal problem. It's already a matter of life and death, of being or not being, and I don't want to talk about this anymore. We need to act. I have no doubt that, just as the fight against corruption is the first priority for me, so it is for you: that others do not give, that others do not give. Because we have a lot of hydra ahead of us, but my political will to challenge corruption is much stronger. This path is not going to be short, this path is not going to be easy, but we're going to get through it because there's no other way. And lastly, dear friends, where I would like to stop today. Many of you may have talked for more than a year about the need for the adoption of the Law on Public Prosecutions. The need for adoption was urged by a large number of public organizations, the Council of Europe. I have to do what four of my predecessors never got their hands on. [[Applause]] To demonstrate the political will and to give impetus to finally depriving the prosecution of the right that Joseph Stalin gave her. It's about the right of general oversight, the general supervision of the U.K. Attorney's Office will be gone, period. [[Applause]] On the transfer of the investigation to the State Bureau of Investigation. The transparency of the prosecution's work. It is time to adopt this pervasive law, taking into account the observations made by the Council of Europe, the Venice Commission. I find it unfavorable and unacceptable to try to drag the matter back into a long box, to have a long discussion that has been going on for years. The adoption of this law is also part of the implementation of the Association Agreement with the European Union. So I urge you, dear fellows, forward to Europe. I wish you a fruitful work today so that we can report to all of us united voters on October 26, 2014. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-14-m0.u4	Dear National Deputies! Pursuant to article 85, paragraph 12, of the Constitution of Ukraine, article 18 of the Law on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine deals with the question of the release of Hellet Valeri Viktorovich from office of the Minister of Defence of Ukraine in connection with the application for resignation. Relevant draft Decision given by the President of Ukraine, his registration number is 5162. Please support the draft Decision on the release of Hellet Waleri Viktorovich from office as Ukrainian Defence Minister on the basis and in general. Please vote. [[10:40:48]] For 293 Decision taken. Dear colleagues! I am voting on the draft Decree (registration number 5164) introduced by the President of Ukraine on the appointment of Stephen Timfiyovich Poltorak as Ukraine's Defence Minister. Please support the Project as a whole. Please vote. [[10:41:30.]] For 245 Decision taken. Let us welcome Stephen Timothy to his office. Dear colleagues! In accordance with article 10 of the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers Act, a person appointed as a member of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the day of his appointment before his appointment shall make an oath to the Ukrainian people at the plenary meeting of the Supreme Council. Ukrainian Defence Minister Stepan Timothyovich Poltorak is invited to make an oath to the rostrum. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-14-m0.u5	I, Poltorak Stepan Timothyovich, aware of the high responsibilities of a member of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, solemnly swear allegiance to the Ukrainian people. I commit myself to upholding the Constitution of Ukraine and the laws of Ukraine. To strengthen Ukraine's sovereignty and independence, to defend human rights and freedoms and citizens, to care for the well-being of the Ukrainian people, and to continue the democratic development of our society.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-14-m0.u6	Stephen Timothyovich, a few words are there to say? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-14-m0.u7	Mr. President, the Honourable Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces of Ukraine! The Honorable Head of the Supreme Council! The Honourable Head of Government! Deputies! Ukraine needs peace. Only modern, well - prepared, mobile, and well - equipped Ukrainian Armed Forces can guarantee this peace. I understand clearly, and I know what needs to be done. To do that, I need time, your support and your help to create the Armed Forces that the Ukrainian people would be proud of. Armed Forces, which would guarantee the inviolability of our borders. In my work, I will rely on Ukrainian professionals and patriots. I thank you all for your trust. Glory to Ukraine! Thank you, Ukrainian Armed Forces!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-14-m0.u8	Thank you, Stephen Timothyovich. Dear colleagues, we can now move into the order of the day, a very important, strained order of our day's work. You and I are supposed to adopt, I believe, historical laws for our country, this is the Prosecutor's Act, these are anti-corruption laws, about, inter alia, the establishment of the Anti-Corruption Bureau, etc. So, honourable colleagues, there is a proposal that we work intensively, effectively and effectively. I now invite the head of the Committee on Legislative Protection of the Law Enforcement Activities of Kožemjakin Andrija Anatoliyovich to the parliamentary rostrum. Please. Please do not leave the session room. We will now make a decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-14-m0.u9	Dear Mr. President of Ukraine! The Honourable Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Dear National Deputies! A committee on law enforcement is prepared for consideration in the second reading of the draft Ukrainian Pro Prosecutor's Office Act (No. 3541). I would like to stress that the adoption of this long-awaited law will first allow the requirement of paragraph 9 of the Transitional Regulations of the Constitution of Ukraine to be met, namely, to deprive the prosecution of its functions, i.e. general supervision and investigation. Secondly, it will allow Ukraine to fulfil the commitment it has voluntarily made in 1995 when it joins the Council of Europe, which is that the role and functions of the Ukrainian Prosecutor's Office will be changed by transforming it into a body that complies with the principles of the Council of Europe. During the drafting of the bill, 905 proposals were made for consideration in the second reading. Of which: 301 bid included, 604 offers rejected. On June 4, this year, the committee approved a comparative table for consideration in the second reading, and it was referred to the Supreme Council for consideration. In view of the adoption on 14 September this year of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Procuratorial Act on the Establishment of Military Prosecutors, it was necessary to amend the draft law on the second reading of Bill No. 3541. So on October 10th of this year, the committee reopened, in accordance with article 43 of the Ukrainian Law on Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, to this bill, and took into account proposals concerning the formation of military prosecutors in the above-mentioned articles of the bill. These are articles 4, 7, 8, 15, 27, 39, 51, 83, 85 and Transitional Positions. I would also like to say that the adoption of this bill will amend 51 laws of Ukraine, as well as amend the 10 codes that are currently in force in Ukraine. A comparative table is given to the National Deputies, and the changes supported by the Committee on October 10 are shown in the right column of the table in bold. Therefore, in the final edition, honourable colleagues, attention, the final edition proposes further article 71, paragraph 9, paragraph 1, after the words "predicted by this law" to add: "In case the Attorney General disagrees with the recommended board of prosecutors' candidature, he submits another candidature to the Council of the Prosecutors." The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, with all the amendments and in the committee that it is today, as well as the editorial board.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-14-m0.u10	Let me finish the speech. Please don't interrupt. Please, Andrew Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-14-m0.u11	For an editorial that I have just stressed, this bill is being asked to be adopted by the Supreme Council as a whole. And really take a very important step today to make the Ukrainian prosecutor's office a European model. General surveillance is gone. The prosecutor becomes a figure of his own. The prosecutor is now acting solely under the law and is only engaged in criminal justice. The D.A. is depriving herself of powers that are not in her possession today. And the main thing is that there's a prosecutorial self-government that can control any assignment of personnel, any disciplinary conduct. And he can protect any decent, patriotic prosecutor at any moment who will carry out his duty under the law. Dear colleagues, this bill has been agreed upon by the working group. The Supreme Council has been awaiting this moment today. I think that the prosecution's issues, the questions that the President of Ukraine asked us, we all agreed. And the project is ready to vote. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-14-m0.u12	Thank you. Andrew Anatolyovich, one minute. Dear colleagues, I ask you to sit down in my workplace, prepare for a historic event, without exaggeration, on voting for the draft Law on Public Prosecutions. Offer, respectable colleagues, next. Andriy Anatoliyovich, when everyone was careful, I hope they listened to him, made a proposal to vote on the draft law. Attention! Don't distract the President, please take your seats. Vote the bill in committee. It was very difficult for the committee to go to this editorial with the amendment now announced by Andrija Anatoliyovich Kožemjakin. For more information, see It's an agreed position, fellows of honor! Please now support the draft law in committee editing, and we are going to have the European Public Prosecutor's Office with you, indeed, to start reforming the force structures right from the Attorney General's Office. You know, the reform was initiated by the Ministry of Internal Affairs. Ukraine will be a European state! We will uphold the Public Prosecutor's Act on the basis and in general! Vote! In the second reading, I'm sorry, as a whole. Please vote. [[10:50:58]] For 316 Decision taken! A constitutional majority! Thank you, fellows of honor! Thank you! This is really a courageous step that we have taken together. But, I'm sure, and the other laws that we're about to adopt are going to continue our approach to Europe, to civilization, to democratic society. And you know that democracy and corruption are things that aren't compatible. Therefore, honourable colleagues, we move on to the adoption of the Law on the System of Specially Authorized Subjects in the Field of Anticorruption. Chumak Viktor Vasilovich, chairman of the Committee on Combating Organized Crime and Corruption, has the inspiration and desire to report this law on a second reading. Please. Table? I'm sorry, according to the tables. Now, now, dear fellows, calm down. Dear colleagues, in 10 minutes, because the tables, you know, they were being prepared at night. The committee was actually working at night. So, Victor Vasilovich? Yes. There's a proposal, fellow officials, while they're handing out the table, you and I can now vote on the draft Law on the Principles of State Anti-Corruption Policy in Ukraine. Yeah? No objections? There are tables here. In fact, everything remains in the first reading, respected colleagues. Come on, please. Please, Victor Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-14-m0.u13	Dear colleagues, I ask you to listen carefully. We can now vote on the principles of State anti-corruption policy, so called anti-corruption strategy. Because no amendments had been made to the committee, no amendments had been made. This is probably the first law in the history of Ukraine that has made no comment among the deputies and has caused no amendment to the committee. So the committee offered him, and at yesterday’s meeting, he offered to be accepted as a whole in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-14-m0.u14	Thank you. Dear colleagues, no objection? There's no objection. There is a desire, I understand, to vote. In view of the fact that it was a government project and the principles of State anti-corruption policy that the government was working, I ask the Prime Minister to give us a few words before the vote. They're pulling up tables by other laws.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-14-m0.u15	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Head, the national deputies of Ukraine! On behalf of the Government of Ukraine, allow me to express my gratitude for the very active work done in preparing all five drafts for second reading. The National Anti-Corruption Strategy, which has no reference to Parliament, is a basic document on how to declare and win a war against corruption. In our National Anti-Corruption Strategy, there are also four bills, including a bill by the President of Ukraine on the National Anti-Corruption Bureau, as well as in fact the National Anti-Corruption Code, which provides for the introduction of a procedure for monitoring the lives of public officials and not only public officials of the I-II category (including ministers, prime ministers, deputies), but also for monitoring the lives of both prosecutors and judges and other officials of the state government who can use government powers for the purpose of enrichment. The string of bills that you're going to be considering today, and hopefully you're going to adopt on second reading, have been processed by all the world's experts. In that case, if these laws are adopted, we're just going to take a few steps forward in the real fight against corruption. Including in Ukraine, an electronic declaration procedure will be introduced for all revenue and expenditure incurred by government officials, judges and prosecutors. Including in Ukraine, a procedure will be introduced to monitor the life of the relevant civil servant and what he wrote in the declaration. A separate bill that comes before you provides a procedure for disclosing all information regarding the property of government officials, judges, and prosecutors, and their relatives. This refers to the disclosure of property rights both for business entities and property rights for immovable property. Now any Ukrainian citizen will have access to all public registers of real estate and real estate property, including the disclosure of the final owner of the enterprise activity. Companies are now registered to one person, and the actual owners are others, including from both the former and the current authorities. This will be done with a dot and the whole package that is being submitted today by the President and the government, which has been processed by international experts, and this is what Ukraine expects. Honest and transparent authorities, honest prosecutors and judges, and in order for them to become honest, must all be brought to light. Thus, this law allows for the control of all officials, judges, and prosecutors. And this law is a real step in the fight against corruption in Ukraine. We ask the members of Parliament to support the relevant bills that have been drafted for the second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-14-m0.u16	Thank you, Arsenia Petrovich. Dear colleagues, you have heard from the chairman of the committee that before the draft Law on the Principles of State Anti-Corruption Policy in Ukraine (Anti-Corruption Strategy) for 2014-2017. No adjustments were made during the preparation for the second reading. So we have every reason to accept the project as it was submitted before the first reading. Please, Your Honor, all to sit on your posts, prepare for a very important vote and support anti-corruption policy in Ukraine, the Anti-Corruption Strategy, a common strategy to fight corruption. Please, fellow believers, support the law in the second reading as well as in general. Please vote. Registration number, I'll remind you, 4284a. Please vote. [[10:58:12]] For 284 Decision taken. Thank you! Let's take a look at the factions. Let's do factions. Parenthood – 81, Party of Regions – 18, Impact – 40, Economic Development – 37, Sovereign European Ukraine – 28, Freedom – 35, SMS – 4, non-fractional – 41. Dear colleagues, I can only see that the tables are right now. Victor Vasilovich, is there a project that we can vote on, where are the tables? Colleagues, do you want to hear the head of the committee? Friends, huge amounts, the proposal is to put together a package to vote all anti-corruption laws so you don't take the time, and you're talking about the tables. Colleagues, let me see what we can do with you right now. Dear colleagues, technical question. [[B in m in s a l in]] We'll take it, we won't break up until we've accepted it. Dear colleagues, I'm just looking at it day by day. There's table 5067. Alexi Petrovich Kayda, ready to report? Please. This is an important issue: fighting non-working shadow incomes. Let me remind you, 5067 is a draft of the Law on Prevention and Opposition of Legalization (Laundering) of Proceeds derived from Crime, Financing Terrorism and Financing the Spread of Weapons of Mass Destruction. Dear colleagues, more important matters of FATF, you know, you strongly advise us to consider and adopt this bill immediately. And I ask the first deputy chairman of the Committee on Finance and Banking to report to Kaidu Alexi Petrovich on the willingness to adopt the law on second reading. Please, Alexi Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-14-m0.u17	Thank you, Alexander Valentinovich. Dear Mr. President, honourable fellow MPs, on October 7, the Supreme Council was adopted as the basis for the first reading of Law 5067. This bill has been adopted as part of an anti-corruption package that shortens its preparation for second reading. The Committee on Finance and Banking carried out a thorough project. During this week, we have worked fruitfully with the major public authorities involved in the system of money laundering and terrorist financing. This is the HoldingFinmonitoring, the National Bank, a commission that works on the financial services markets for securities. The committee handled 111 amendments by Ukrainian national deputies. The vast majority of the proposals made by the national MPs were taken into account entirely or editorially, which is 72 amendments that have professionally improved the bill. 38 amendments to the committee have been rejected and the main arguments for this are the FATF standards, which we cannot violate, namely: the inviolability of the principles of the transfer of information on suspicious transactions to the Financial Intelligence Unit (FATF Recommendation 20), the inability to hold participants responsible for financial and non-financial markets involved in the enforcement of the law (FATF Recommendation 21), the need to include tax crimes in the number of pre-emptive proceeds obtained by criminal means – this is the first FATF Recommendation, and the 16th FATF Recommendation – the need to identify persons who make money transfers to sums that exceed the international threshold standard – that is one thousand dollars or Euro. Thanks to the committee’s work, the bill has become comprehensive, complex, and consistent, and it is qualitatively improving national legislation against money laundering and terrorist financing. Dear National Deputies! Please note that the adoption of this law is vitally important, you need to implement the FATF standards, which is primarily the draft bill. You know what competition in world markets, especially in today's conditions of non-compliance with international standards, in such conditions as can never strike national economies and the image of Ukraine, will harm the stable functioning of the entire banking sector, the interests of bank customers and the negative impact on average citizens. The committee supports the bill. In view of this, I ask you to adopt this law in the second reading and in general, and I request that you give the order to the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Authority.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-14-m0.u18	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-14-m0.u19	together with the committee after the adoption of the law as a whole to introduce appropriate technical and legal remedies to the law. Thank you for your attention, please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-14-m0.u20	Dear colleagues, do you understand the position? As proposed by the committee, please sit down and support Alexi Petrovich. Ladies and gentlemen, please support the project. It's not a discussion, it's a second reading, I remind you, the Rules open read. As an editorial, I would like to support the committee in its second reading and in general. Colleagues, by the way, be quick! Hurry up, we're going to vote! Please, in the second reading and in general, please, Your Honor, we vote. [[11:04:40]] For 232 Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor, but not all the factions voted. Please, by the factions. Parenthood – 78, Regions – 8, Impact – 38, Economic Development only – 7, Sovereign European Ukraine – 26, Freedom – 35, Peace and Stability – 4, non-fractional – 36. Dear colleagues, do I already see a handout or not, a table? Please give the factions first. Dear colleagues, please, are now distributing a table of Laws 5114 and 4284. That's how we voted. I'm sorry. Dear colleagues, I would like to invite you to Victor Vasilovich Chumak's rostrum, and we will now consider a draft law amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts to determine the final beneficiaries of legal persons and public officials, second reading. Dear colleagues, I remind you, this is a very important question. I have a suspicion that not everyone in the room wants this law to be passed. Because under this law, all offshore accounts and firms, all the other linings that cover privatization in Ukraine, property ownership and other assets, will still have to show the main promoter. And more specifically, Victor Vasilovich Chumak will now tell you about the willingness of the law to read the second reading. Please, Your Honor, 5114.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-14-m0.u21	Dear Mr. President! Dear Head! Dear Mr. Prime Minister! Dear Ukrainian community! I would like to say that Law 5114 is very important because it is a law that opens registers of end-users or end-beneficiaries, owners of legal persons, first of all, and second of all opens registers of goods rights for the immovable property of all Ukrainian citizens, while maintaining a complete system of personal data protection of our fellow citizens with you. I would like to say that in the process of the bill, 60 proposals were received by law - enforcement entities, 10 of which were fully taken into account. I would like to say that the main change to this project, which is important enough, is to change the criminal responsibility for not providing information to the director or the authorized person of the final recipient of the names and names of the owners of this company into administrative responsibility. Why was this done? Because you realize that a CEO or some other authorized person of a firm can't, in principle, determine the very fact of the final recipient, the ultimate beneficiary. Thus, such a change was made, and the committee approved it. The committee considered this bill yesterday at its meeting, and recommended that it be adopted in a second reading and in general for the second reading of the Committee on Combating Corruption and Organized Crime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-14-m0.u22	Dear colleagues, do you understand the offer? The text is. Victor Vasilovich, is there a text? Please give Victor Pinzenik the text first. Dear colleagues, once again. It is the draft Law amending Ukraine’s legislative acts regarding the recognition of end-users of legal persons and public officials, so that there is no possibility of concealing the real owner of an object of real estate, an enterprise, or the media, etc. Therefore, honourable national deputies, please sit in your seats. Please, Victor Vasilovich, another comment from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-14-m0.u23	Dear colleagues, there is one comment and a request to Mr. Kayda, who has just reported the previous law. I would like to say that the definition of beneficiaries in this bill, which we will now vote with you and in Law 5067, should be the same. So I would very much like to see that, in the process of technical legalizing this law, the definition of beneficiaries is harmonized between the two drafts of these laws: 5114 and 5067. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-14-m0.u24	There's no objection. Dear colleagues, may we vote? Colleagues, there's text, we can vote, but I see what we can do. National Deputy Carpunz, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-14-m0.u25	Dear Alexander Valentinovich, distinguished colleagues! There's an amendment to article 28, when we accepted, we allow both the subject and the local authorities, the Security Service, the Public Prosecutor's Office, courts, notaries, and lawyers released in this case. That is a request, considering that lawyers also have the right to request, obtain both from the subject and from the subject. There was an amendment to Belkova there, well, the head of the committee may have listened to this amendment. If there's no objection to MPs, and I don't think if we're expanding the circle of subjects, it's a problem, or we're giving more publicity, Alexander Valentinovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-14-m0.u26	I see. Dear colleagues! An offer so that lawyers can ask. Is there no objection to that? Please, Your Honor, Andrew Volodymyrovich, I, please, take your seats, we are now voting. Dear colleagues! Please take your seats, prepare for the vote, make the economic system transparent in Ukraine. So that corrupters and bribes will not be able to hide behind offshore structures, within any structure, to hide the real owner of an object. Please, Your Honor, 5114 support the committee head's proposal. Support the committee with the amendment of the Karpuntsov People’s Deputy, which he announced. Please, in the second reading and in general. Please vote, Your Honor, together. [[11:11:54]] For 265 Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor, thank you. The Prime Minister would like to say. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-14-m0.u27	Dear National Deputies! Mr. President! Mr. Head! I want to welcome everyone. The offshore era in Ukraine is over! Now every official is going to be like in the system: all the bills, all the property, all the companies are going to be exposed, and those who have illegal ownership are going to be held accountable. That's all I'm saying.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-14-m0.u28	Dear colleagues. I have a report from the secretariat that the tables at the Anti-Corruption Bureau are now being placed in the hall. Victor Vasilovich, by law, is it possible to report on the prevention of corruption? 5113, is there any way to report? Dear colleagues! The Supreme Council is working at such a high rate that technical means are not able to reproduce bills that are large enough. And in this regard, honourable colleagues, so that we do not waste time on the work of the Supreme Council, there is a proposal as we submit two tables of the Anticorruption Bureau and the Prevention of Corruption Act so that we do not lose any time and vote in the daytime. Dear colleagues, there is a technical one vote – I would like to draw your attention – that we need to remove disagreements in the text adopted by us on September 2 of the Law on the Moratorium on the Forced Realisation of Housing, the forced exclusion from housing and utility networks, the prohibition of billing and foaming and other punitive sanctions in the event of a timely payment for residential and utility services by citizens living in the territory of the anti-terrorist operation in the Donetské and Luhansk areas (registration No. 4188a). There are technical inaccuracies during the vote, so in accordance with Rule 131 of the Rules, we need to reaffirm our vote in favour of this law. I ask Sald Vladimir Volodymyrovich to inform very briefly about technical disagreements. Please. Is there a National Deputy Saldo? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-14-m0.u29	Ladies and gentlemen, there were several issues that were not agreed upon at first when we first adopted this law concerning the Luhansk and Donetsk regions. Our committee reviewed them, considered them, and proposed them before they were approved.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-14-m0.u30	Dear colleagues, no objection? You understand this is about our citizens who live in the territory of an anti-terror operation. And it's clear that they're having trouble paying for utilities, and so on. And it's the law that regulates this issue. Dear colleagues, once again, in accordance with Rule 131 of the Rules, I must put this document to the vote for its adoption again. I bet on the vote, please sit down with the proposals made by the committee to remove the disagreement in the text of the adoption of the law. Please. Let me remind you, this is about the Law on the Moratorium for Forced Housing. That is to say, it is forbidden to enforce housing, switch off housing services, ban on billing and foaming and other penalties in the event that payment is made in a timely manner for residential services of citizens living in the territory of an anti-terrorist operation in the Donetsk and Lugansk areas. Dear colleagues, registration number of this Law 4188a. In accordance with article 131 of the Rules, I propose to the committee a vote. Please, vote. [[11:16:42]] For 282 Decision taken. The factions, please. 75 – Fatherland, 36 – Regions, Impact – 35, 34 – Economic Development, 24 – "North European Ukraine", "Freedom" – 35 – 5 – non-fractional – 38. Dear colleagues, National Deputy Homutinnik, the committee head requests one minute. The Secretariat would like to expedite the distribution of tabular materials.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-14-m0.u31	Dear Alexander Valentinovich, dear colleagues! Also on September 2, 4766 members of the national parliaments of Blawajk, Kosulinski, Krivetsky and Kirilenko were voted to amend the Tax Code to improve the taxation of investment activities. This bill was voted on as a whole without a known committee. And there we had to do a number of technical details along with the Legal Authority. Including the question of the validity of the bill, the law stated that it would take effect on June 1. These questions are settled. Also settled issues with the Supreme Council’s Office of Law. There is also a request for 131 articles to support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-14-m0.u32	Dear colleagues, do you understand the offer? 4766 The law, according to the inaccuracies of the date, please, Your Honor, support the committee's proposal. And vote on it to eliminate disagreements in accordance with article 131 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules. No objections? I won't. 4766 - please vote. [[11:18:41]] For 243 Decision taken. Dear colleagues! Dear National Deputies! Next question. Draft Law on Amendments to the Criminal Code of Ukraine (to increase responsibility for violations of the electoral rights of citizens). Dear colleagues, a very important, strategically important issue. The question is not only about these elections but also about the holding of elections in Ukraine. To ensure that no one has the opportunity, even attempts, to falsify the election results, or to bribe the electorate. Dear colleagues, please take your seats. In order to uphold this law, we need to return to its consideration. Please, Your Honor, support the return to the law, the return, then, we will now discuss it, 4741, honourable colleagues. Draft Law on Amendments to the Criminal Code of Ukraine (to increase responsibility for violations of electoral rights). Dear colleagues, please support the return to this question. Please vote. [[11:20:17]] For 233 Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. The factions, please. 74 – "The Fatherland", "The Party of Regions 6" – fight for the electoral rights of citizens, "The Strike" – 37, 33 – "The Economic Development", 10 – "The Sovereign European Ukraine", "Freedom" – 35, the MMA – 1 and the non-fractional 37. Dear colleagues, please, Andriy Anatoliyovich Kožemjakin. Please, Andrew Anatoliyovich Kožemiakin, ready to report the project? Or let's do it from the government. Andrew Anatolyovich, from the government. Arsenius Petrovich, who from the government is ready to report? Come on, it's a government law, the committee will support its adoption. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-14-m0.u33	The honourable national deputies of Ukraine, Ukraine before the electoral process, and since we are not holding elections for the first time, I would like to point out that the main issue is transparency, honesty and democracy of elections. The presidential elections were held in accordance with all OSCE standards and the international community defined the elections of the President of Ukraine, which took place several months ago as democratic. And now we must go the same way towards democracy and transparency in the electoral process during the October 26th vote this year for the new composition of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Unfortunately, the current criminal and criminal law does not provide for a clear responsibility for electoral bribery, for falsification of electoral documentation, for capture of electoral boxes and, in fact, for falsification of the electoral process. That is why the Ukrainian government prepared two months ago to amend the Ukrainian Criminal Code to increase responsibility for violations of citizens’ rights during the elections. We propose to Parliament to increase criminal responsibility and establish a specific clear responsibility for voter bribery, also to establish responsibility for for foreclosure of electoral documentation, also to establish responsibility for counterfeiting electoral ballots and protocols, also to establish responsibility for illegal capture of electoral boxes, and to establish responsibility for any attempt to falsify the electoral process. The main problem in Ukraine today is to bribe voters. This should be pursued by law. Those who distribute Greek and concentrated milk should also eat Greek and concentrated milk in prison rather than buy voters. That is why we ask Parliament to support the changes and enable Ukraine to choose an honest and democratic parliament. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-14-m0.u34	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I ask you to note that before the authorities have done everything they can to falsify elections, and now the authorities are making proposals on criminal responsibility, criminal responsibility, for any attempt to falsify elections or influence the will of our voters. These are, I think, the principles of differences that have taken place in our country. And that's why, dear colleagues, there's an offer without discussion, a colleague. Colleagues, no discussion, listen to me, yes, support the offer. [[B in m in s a l in]] You'll be able to perform in the districts. Dear colleagues, we have many questions. Now we're moving to the Anti-Corruption Bureau. Therefore, please, colleagues, without a pianist, we support the Act (registration number 4741) amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine (to increase responsibility for violations of the electoral rights of citizens). Please, dear fellows, together we will overcome this evil, uphold the law as a foundation and as a whole! Vote please! Please, Your Honor, we all vote! [[11:24:36]] For 233 Decision taken. Thank you, fellows of honor! [[Applause]] The factions. The factions. Parenthood – 80, Party of Regions – 10, Impact – 39, Economic Development – 20, Sovereign European Ukraine – 10, Freedom – 35, Peace and Stability – 4, non-fractional – 35. Dear colleagues, we have every opportunity to move on to a fundamental issue (registration number 5085). This is a draft of the Law on a System of Specially Authorized Subjects in the Field of Anticorruption. That is, the draft Law on the Establishment of the Anti-Corruption Bureau. This is exactly the proposal for a name change that a profile committee is now proposing. I invite the head of the Committee on Combating Organized Crime and Corruption of Chumak Viktor Vasilovich to the parliamentary rostrum. Please, Victor Vasilovich, report on the willingness of the law to be adopted on second reading. Dear colleagues, we do not part, a very important question, the strategic importance of this issue. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-14-m0.u35	Dear colleagues, this is really a strategic issue, because according to this law, a specially authorized law enforcement body is being created to combat corruption, namely high-level corruption, exclusively by officials of the 1st and 2nd categories, exclusively by political, public individuals, solely by law enforcement officers in higher positions, exclusively by military officials in senior management positions. This law - enforcement body will not engage in petty corruption of the rural heads of the local, rural, and local heads, as well as the district and other government departments. This is exactly what Ukraine needs to combat high-level corruption. I would like to say that yesterday we finished discussing this bill in five minutes to 12. The five - hour discussion was intense enough. But the law has undergone some changes. But in my opinion, they are not critical and do not wash away the very essence of the law. Although the main changes, I want to report to you, they were. 176 amendments were made, of which 52 were included. The main changes were the following. The removed chapters I and II of the bill, which blurred the focus of the law, were appropriately renamed. Now the law is not called "The System of Specially Authorized Anti-Corruption Authorities" but "The National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine". A second critical change or a very important change. This is suggested by a more stringent qualification requirement for candidates for office directorship. It was a few amendments to the National Deputies from various factions that required the Director of the Bureau to have a higher legal education, 10 years of vocational training, 5 years of management experience. The amendment was counted. An element of parliamentary control is being introduced into the appointment of the Director. That is, the appointment of the director is at the agreement of the Supreme Council by the President of Ukraine for the submission of a competitive commission. That is, all elements of control are taken into account, starting with public control, continuing with presidential control and ending with the control of the Supreme Council. At the same time, the Supreme Council may express political mistrust to the director of this office by a majority of its votes, but it requires that at least 150 signatures of the national deputies be collected to initiate the question of expressing mistrust to the director of the bureau. Work has been clarified, or let's say a refined algorithm for the work of a competitive commission. The Commission shall determine three candidates from which the President may choose any candidate and submit it to the approval of the Supreme Council. If the Council refuses, the President will refer another. If the Council refuses next time, it gives a third. If there is a third refusal, a new competition is announced. The illustrative requirements for the Anticorruption Bureau staff are clarified. A requirement is added that all employees be tested in accordance with the Law on the Cleaner of Power, and the corresponding positions of another similar nature are deleted. In relation to regulatory imbalances and
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-14-m0.u36	Please finish and do not turn off the microphone until it is finished.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-14-m0.u37	In the light of regulatory irregularities, the procedure for testing a lie detector for such a text check is also selected. It is also proposed to determine the level of office salaries according to existing budgetary resources and in accordance with existing legislation. These are major, I'd say, marginal changes in this organ. At the same time, he still has sufficient authority to carry out operational and investigative activities, to protect persons involved in criminal justice, to deal with issues, claims and complaints by persons who report violations of anti-corruption activities. And so we think that such an organ that it will be created is very important, very critical and necessary to Ukraine for today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-14-m0.u38	Victor Vasilovich!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-14-m0.u39	The salary is not established by law, the salary will be set from the availability of budget resources by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-14-m0.u40	Victor Vasilovich, the draft ready to vote in the committee, are there any amendments that still need to be put to the vote?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-14-m0.u41	There are three amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-14-m0.u42	Yes, please, in the microphone, what are you telling me?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-14-m0.u43	There are three amendments that raise some doubts.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-14-m0.u44	Please turn on the microphone to Pinzenik Victor Mikhailovich. Rosenk, the National MP, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-14-m0.u45	Paul Rosenco, Vitaly Caller's Faction. We ask for confirmation of amendment 92, 93 and 94. The existence of these amendments can simply effectively block the activities of the Anticorruption Bureau, for the relevant prescriptions of the director of the Anticorruption Bureau will require a court decision. We know the state of the Ukrainian courts today. So we ask that these amendments be submitted for confirmation and not voted in favour of them, so that the Head of the Anti-Corruption Bureau himself has the right to ask the relevant information to the relevant authorities without any court decisions. As was the case in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-14-m0.u46	Dear colleagues, the proposal was to make amendments 92, 93, 94. I give the floor to the author of these amendments. Turn on the mic of Vlasenko, the national MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-14-m0.u47	Dear colleagues, what are we supposed to do now? It is now proposed that any director of the bureau be given the opportunity, without the court's decision to enter any premises, to demand all sorts of things, to take away all kinds of things, for 10 days to seal the registers of enterprises, to exhibit any kind of protection, without a court order, it is unacceptable. In my opinion, today there is no problem in getting court rulings to carry out such actions, it is a violation of the fundamental principles of ownership. We know how our law enforcement agencies work today. Once again, this is a violation of basic principles, not games. Tomorrow, any facility will be visited by these people, whether it's related to corruption or not, they'll block the company's work, and then we'll prove something to someone. And it's all going on without a court order.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-14-m0.u48	Please ask the committee head to comment on these amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-14-m0.u49	I would like to say that special prosecutors are being sent to the bureau, which will, according to their authority, organize procedural investigations, and also to monitor the legality of the conduct of pre-trial investigations and search activities. So to say that this is going to be lawlessness, first of all, you can't. Secondly, I would like to say, not to any director of the bureau, but to the director of the bureau, who will go through the purgatory of public control, who will go through the purgatory of the President's election and which will be approved by us with you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-14-m0.u50	Dear colleagues, I see a lot of hands, but I would like to remind you that under the second reading procedure we don't discuss the issue, we vote. There was a proposal to confirm by voting the amendments 92, 93, 94. Colleagues, please, let's calm down. Okay, I see, I'll let the three deputies speak on this. Please, People's Deputy Mirni.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-14-m0.u51	Alexander Mirny, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. The questions raised now are extremely important. We must give a clear answer to ourselves that there is a procedure and there is a guarantee. And the question is clearly correct that all those actions that are planned to be directed should be sanctioned by the court. And the argument is, you know what the courts are like right now, he can't handle any criticism. So we just have to reform the court, not put the situation under the present state of the courts. Because the authorities are depraved. And we can accept any beautiful person for this position, but when a person sees in six months that he's completely uncontrollable, and there's a lot of people around him who are willing to advise him how to do it right, it's not impossible for him to shake his hand and want to take advantage of his ability for any purpose. So judicial reform -- and it's okay -- doesn't have to be invented. It's the right thing to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-14-m0.u52	Please, National Deputy Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-14-m0.u53	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. When I hear the excuse of volunteerism as a reference to the fact that there are no courts in Ukraine, please tell me, dear colleagues, and who -- angels with white wings -- will work at the Anti-Corruption Bureau? Where will you take these angels? From the prosecutor's office, from the courts, from the U.S.A., from the law enforcement agencies, that's where you're going to get it. They're as sinful as all of us. That's why there's a Constitution, that's why there's a court decision. You don't like the court's decision, you bought the court's decision, you put that judge in jail. But to go to anyone just because you wanted to, if you'll excuse me, they've come to Yanukovich like this. It doesn't matter who comes in, the law has to work for everyone. If he's a corrupt, take him ass and put him down. But according to the law, not because you wanted to.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-14-m0.u54	Thank you. The People’s Deputy of God’s Word.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-14-m0.u55	Dear colleagues! What's this all about? Let's be honest with each other, this is about a special authority with special powers, because we have to create one because neither the judicial system nor the law enforcement system works. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that the Anti-Corruption Bureau will only work with regard to senior officials, senior officials, the same persons who are more likely to influence the courts than all others. That is why we cannot support this amendment. In addition, the law itself provides for a special procedure for expressing distrust of members of the Anticorruption Bureau: the submission of a third of the deputy corps. That is, the political minority is able to protect its rights, as is the political majority.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-14-m0.u56	Dear colleagues, well, communication took place. Let me give you another word, Volodymyr Mikhailovich Litvina. And the committee head will comment -- we'll make a decision by voting.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-14-m0.u57	Dear Head, dear colleagues! There is only one thing missing in this law: the name that will lead the Anticorruption Bureau. The law must be passed for the country, not for a specific person. That's the first one. If such a pruritus is selectively adjusted for confirmation, then the proposal is to place all the amendments that are included on confirmation. We have to build a system, not a dictatorship in the country. You don't have to go that way and say, "Who doesn't vote, that son of a bitch" to push what you don't push. Let us make a balanced decision for the country, not for the political moment and for the elections.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-14-m0.u58	Dear colleagues, there is a head. Please calm down, Commissioner Kaplin! I'll get you out of the hall now! Calm down, please! Your faction representative is head of the committee, he'll be here right now, he'll be more professional. Calm down, please!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-14-m0.u59	Dear colleagues, I would like to say that, in fact, I absolutely agree with Vladimir Mikhailovich that we need to think about the country. We haven't thought about it in 23 years, and corruption has blossomed in a violent flower. And I would like to say that this office is going to work like this: not in average citizens. And I understand why there's so much resentment in this room, because MPs are the first customers in this office. I totally understand that these are the first customers, and I understand why everyone is so actively opposed. So let's say that when the National Bureau of Investigation was established in the United States, there were only 25 special investigators and prosecutors with Edward Goover. But they had the only strong support — political, political support! No, they didn't go to court at the time. And they had very strong support. I say again, we have enough political mechanisms to influence this law against the director of the bureau, we have enough political mechanisms and legal influence on the work of this office. Therefore, in order to start the work of the office now.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-14-m0.u60	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-14-m0.u61	Instead of blocking it by the courts, I would ask you not to support these amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-14-m0.u62	Dear colleagues! Please, now, colleagues, we don't have this first reading, it's second. Yes, I've given the opportunity to speak both to the author of the amendments and to the representatives of the various factions. Colleagues, we need to make a decision or we're gonna get stuck. Colleagues, calm down. We can now determine how to vote. As far as I'm concerned, calm down! – proposals by Vladimir Mikhailovich Litvin that all amendments supported by the committee should be voted on, I agree. When we vote in general, in fact, we will vote in favour of all the amendments supported by the committee. Colleagues, I'm sorry, but I gave the floor to the head of the committee, the head of the committee leads the second reading. I'm doing a technical function according to the Rules: there's a proposal for a vote -- I bet, no offer -- I don't. So calm down, dear fellows. Please, Your Honor, 92, 93, 94. [[B in m in s a l in]] I take it separately. 92nd, dear colleagues, was a proposal made by a representative of the strike faction to confirm this amendment. Colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-14-m0.u63	[[From the Hall]] ..vote for this amendment, not vote for the whole law. Let's vote in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-14-m0.u64	Oleg, then with the amendments, I'll put it to the vote and that's it. Yeah. That's why. Well, I can't break the Rules, colleagues. [[B in m in s a l in]] So then we're going to vote with the amendment, I'm going to take this one out. Colleagues, please. Please identify your support for Amendment 92. Please, Your Honor, vote in favour of this amendment, please vote. [[11:41:47]] For 229 Decision taken. Please, next amendment. [[B in m in s a l in]] The faction? Please, by the factions. Parenthood – 68, Regions – 28, Impact – 1, 35 – Economic Development, 27 – Sovereign European Ukraine, 34 – Freedom, 4 – non-fractional – 32. Dear colleagues, to save time, can I put 93 and 94 on confirmation right now? May I have your respectable colleagues? I can. I'm betting on confirmation. Colleagues, pay attention! Amendments 93 and 94, please identify the national MPs for the support of these amendments: 93 and 94. Please vote. [[11:42:48]] For 243 Decision taken. The factions, please. 64 – "Paternity", Regions – 38, "POW" – 0.38 – "Economic development", 29 – "Sovereign European Ukraine", "Freedom" – 35 – 4. Dear colleagues! Can we vote now as a whole? What's no? We can. Colleagues, don't look at the law. Well, we're clear. Colleagues, please turn on the microphone for the President.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-14-m0.u65	I'd like the committee head to confirm yesterday's agreement. On the point that, by making concessions in the session room, we are now proposing that Parliament may also express mistrust, which results from the resignation of the Director, but on the basis of the law, not on its own motion, as required by the Venice Commission. Because the President can do so on the basis of the laws laid down and Parliament should do so accordingly. So I'm just going to confirm that once again for the transcript.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-14-m0.u66	Absolutely. It was voted yesterday, and I'm absolutely clear on that.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-14-m0.u67	Taking this position into account, please, colleagues, to vote in general. [[Noise Nodes]] Okay. Pinzenik Victor Mikhailovich, please. I'll give, I'll give, I'll give. Colleagues!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-14-m0.u68	Dear Head! Dear Mr. President! Dear colleagues! Regrettably, Parliament rejected the amendment, and the committee rejected the amendment I proposed regarding articles that raised warnings in many national MPs. It refers to articles 28 and 29 regarding the conditions of payment for the employees of the Anticorruption Bureau. In today’s critical circumstances, we cannot talk about the size of the pay. Unfortunately, the committee didn't take the amendment into account, and in order not to ruin the design of the law, I propose to delete the pay-as-you-go points, 50 percent of the monthly salary, and even 25 percent of the family-related pay-as-you-go. And leave in article 28 only the first article that defines the conditions of social protection is governed by this law and other laws. Remove all other items in this article. I ask my colleagues to support the deletion of all other standards of this article.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-14-m0.u69	Please, Victor Vasilovich, comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-14-m0.u70	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that all the rules of law that determine the size of the work of the employees of the bureau have been removed from the law from the draft law. Only the principles of social protection remain, which are established in the same way as those of other law enforcement officials regarding retirement or loss of health or loss of life. This is the principle that there are no specific figures, there are recorded positions in percentages that apply to these people when they either retire or receive a disability pension, or a family as a result of the loss of a breadwinner. All of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-14-m0.u71	Colleagues, do you understand the committee head's comment? I see. I'm asking you, colleagues, to now support this law in the second reading and in general, because otherwise we will now begin to cool down the content of this law. Dear colleagues, I ask you to support in the second reading and in general the Law, whose registration number is 5085, taking into account the positions now being voted on, as well as the comments made by the representative of the President and the responses of the head of the committee, please, colleagues, please vote in the second reading and in general. Please, Your Honor, we vote. [[11:47:00]] For 278 Decision taken. Congratulations, fellows of honor! This is a very serious step in the fight against corruption in Ukraine! The factions, please. Parenthood – 78, Party of Regions – 14, Impact – 39, Economic Development – 35, Sovereign European Ukraine – 28, Freedom – 35, Peace and Stability – 5, non-fractional – 44. The president of Ukraine is eager to comment on the adoption of the law. Please, Peter Alexiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-14-m0.u72	Dear National Deputies! Dear friends! We have taken a decisive step to strengthen our fight against corruption, a cancerous tumor that consumes our whole country. I have no doubt that the appointment of the head of the bureau will take place for the first time in Ukraine under an absolutely transparent procedure that will be agreed upon by public organizations. And this person will meet all the criteria that today take time. And we can finally take decisive steps to overcome corruption in Ukraine. I thank you for your effective work today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-14-m0.u73	Thank you, Peter Alexiovich. Dear colleagues, please, please continue to work. I, my distinguished colleagues, point out that we still have a lot of important questions today. The very important issues that we should now discuss and accept. This is a question of ensuring transparent elections in Ukraine. This is a question and a change to the budget. These are many other important issues that concern the social protection of our citizens. So, dear colleagues, there's an offer, now, I see everything, my friends. There's an offer to work all the time. Do we support the offer? We're backing it up. Thank you. Please close the buffet so we don't lose responsible national deputies there. Colleagues, Oleg Tuggniboku please turn on the microphone. Let's not break up, dear friends.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-14-m0.u74	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished fellow national MPs, distinguished society! It is extremely important that we today have voted on anticorruption laws. But once again, I want to remind you that today, October 14 is the day of the Holy Cover. It is not only the Day of Ukrainian Cossacks, and from today it is the day of the Ukrainian army, but it is also the day of the creation of the Ukrainian Insurgency Army. A huge evening now under the walls of Parliament requires us to vote in this room, first by putting into order a daily bill 2111a on the recognition of the UN-OPA's struggle for Ukraine's state independence. I'm just as sorry that we agreed on the Conciliation Board, but now it's not right. That's why the Freedoms faction insists that we now vote in favour of the agenda and consider 3,530 -- banning the communist ideology of Ukraine. And so is our Bill 5138 on changing the greeting "Glory to Ukraine!" in the Ukrainian Armed Forces. Please put on.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-14-m0.u75	Dear colleagues, there's a proposal from the National MPs, I understand that it's being supported on the street now to include in the agenda a draft law on the recognition of the Organization of Ukrainian Nationalists and the Ukrainian Insurgency Army as a belligerent in the Second World War for Ukraine's freedom and independence. Ladies and gentlemen. Colleagues, now, now, wait. That is why the government also proposes that we, honourable colleagues, return and vote in favour of the UPA immediately after the last corruption law. Is there no objection? Supported. We are voting on the corruption law, and we are voting on the UPA right now. Colleagues! To complete the package, I agree with the Prime Minister. And we're not breaking up right now, we're voting UPA. Please, Your Honor, we have the last anti-corruption law left, this is the draft Anti-Corruption Act (5113). And right after that, I support Oleg Tuggnibok's initiative to vote on the inclusion of a day-to-day project with regard to the Ukrainian Insurgency Army. Please, Victor Vasilovich. Guys, let's not break up! The last major corruption law. Anti-corruption law. The last anti-corruption law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-14-m0.u76	Dear colleagues, you know, I think what this Parliament has done before this is actually going to go into history. He did not get involved, but he was able to get into history with some of his decisions. But I want to tell you that we have another law that needs to be passed that defines all measures to prevent corruption. Not fighting corruption, let's say, by strong methods, that's prevention. We looked at it on the committee yesterday. There were 250 offers, 122 of which were included. And the committee at its meeting recommended that the Supreme Council accept it on second reading and in general. Practically, there were not enough serious differences in this law in all interested parties. The Ministry of Justice supports, the President supports, the Supreme Council must support. And we will carry out our mission to build this part of anti-corruption legislation in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-14-m0.u77	Dear colleagues, the committee's proposal to support the draft Anti-Corruption Act (registration number 5113) together. Please, Victor Vasilovich, so you can vote. We're sitting in our workplaces, dear colleagues. The last nail in the coffin with corruption, let us now see at the meeting of the Supreme Council. Please, colleagues, 5113, offer to support the committee in its second reading and in general. 5113 we vote in the second reading and in general in the committee. Please, dear fellows. A historic event. The whole package of anti-corruption laws. Vote. [[11:53:39]] For 230 Decision taken. Thank you, fellows of honor! About factions so everyone could see the heroes who adopted these laws today. Parenthood – 79, Party of Regions – 12, Impact – 33, Economic Development – 23, Sovereign European Ukraine – 15, 35 – Freedom, MS – 2, non-fractional – 31. Dear colleagues, there was a proposal by the people's deputies that we now include 2111a in the agenda. 2111a is about introduction. I'm sorry. The law on the definition of the Organization of Ukrainian Nationalists and the Ukrainian Insurgency Army as a belligerent in World War II for Ukraine's freedom and independence. Patriots who protected our country both against the fascist threat and against the Communist threat. Please, Your Honor, support the inclusion of this project in the agenda. 2111a, please vote. [[11:55:02]] For-187 The decision is not taken. [[B in m in s a l in]] The factions, please. Parenthood – 77, regions – 0, hit – 30, Economic Development – 11, Sovereign European Ukraine – 9, Freedom – 35, Peace and Stability – 0, non-fractional – 25. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, please, there is a possibility. We're talking about inclusion in the agenda. Colleagues, about getting into the daytime. Then it will be possible to determine whether to vote on this law. I ask you, today, October 14th, my friends, let's support the incorporation of this law into the order of the day, an important law. I see everyone's backing him up. Yeah? [[B in m in s a l in]] They're backing up. Once again, colleagues, we can do this, put it into the agenda. 2111a, please once again, colleagues, support the inclusion in the order of the day of this law. Please vote. [[11:56:13]] For 205 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. 79 – Fatherland, Regions – 1, 36 – Impact, Economic Development – 12, "North European Ukraine" – 14, 35 – "Freedom", MMA – 1, non-fractional – 27. Oleg Pullibok, please, microphone for one minute. Colleagues, don't break up, we work all the time.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-14-m0.u78	Respectable Society! Indeed, it may be that we are holding the last plenary session today in this composition of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. This Parliament has done much good for the Ukrainian State, although it has been marked by a January 16 vote and cooperation with the Yanukovic bandit regime. But this vote can rehabilitate many, and this vote will be a historic justice, that those soldiers of the Ukrainian Insurgency Army who fought on their land, not under Cracow, or under Warsaw, or under Moscow, but on their land for Ukrainian independence, will finally be recognized by the Ukrainian state. Same thing as now that our heroes are fighting at Donbas, in Crimea, for Ukraine's independence. This is a historic mission. It's the task of each of us today to mobilize all efforts and now, 100%, as the Freedom faction does, we ask other factions to do so, let's vote, put in the agenda, discuss and still acknowledge the UN-UPA struggle for Ukraine's state independence. Historical justice must prevail! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-14-m0.u79	Dear colleagues, from the authors of the law, please, Kirilenko Viacheslav Anatoliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-14-m0.u80	Dear voters, dear Ukrainians, dear colleagues! Repeatedly, this question was raised, and there were always no votes. True, it was under the criminal regime. Now in the country, finally, Ukrainian power. True, an incomplete patriotic MP's corps. So there's a threat that the law won't pass now. At the same time, there are several reasons why this law should be adopted today. The struggle of the Ukrainian Insurgency Army is one of the brightest pages of modern Ukrainian history. The UPA’s opposition officially began on October 14, 1942, with other armed forces in place. And the latest act of resistance against UPA is dated May 2, 1961, in the town of Berežana Ternopil district. That is, the 20 - year underground insurgency had no other parallels in history, such as the struggle of the Ukrainian Insurgency Army. Secondly, we just have to respect people, very few UPA veterans are still alive. They are getting older and, unfortunately, are getting out of life. No more than 8,000 veterans throughout Ukraine remain among us, still alive. At least I'd like to give them this present right now. Third. Nine areas have long recognized the status of UPA and UPA as war veterans and war veterans. From West to East, such areas, district councils, were recognized by UPA fighters. Right now, today, it's time to do it on Parliament's level. Because it was this morning that President Poshenko, the newly elected Ukrainian people, did what all the previous presidents had to do. It is today that the day of the creation of the UPA and the day of Ukrainian Cossacks has been announced as the Day of Protector of the Motherland. Nine years ago on this day, October 14, 2005, the government commission to study UN-UPA's activities adopted the final conclusion.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-14-m0.u81	Let me finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-14-m0.u82	historians on UN-OPA activities. And this conclusion of the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine was published in 2005, distributed, and can be consulted in every Ukrainian library. These nine years since 2005 have gone to tell society more about what the struggle against UPA is for Ukrainians. And today we may have the last chance in this House to pay off our debts to veterans. We include it in the agenda and we vote, it'll be a tribute to the dead, and to this day, to the living veterans of the UPA. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-14-m0.u83	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I see a few more hands, let's give it a minute and try again to put this question to a vote. Guys, let's do this one performance at a time. Please, National Deputy Donny.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-14-m0.u84	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen! Today, Miroslav Simcic came to Kiev in particular. This is a man of legend, a man who spent more than 30 years participating in the Ukrainian Insurgency Army and under the Cosmach he placed the largest number of NCDs. It was not only revenge for the Ukrainians, but it was a reminder that General Dergachev, who died under Cosmach by the hands of patriots like Miroslav Simcic, evicted the Crimean Tatars of his time. He was involved in the genocide of the Crimean Tatar people. And now there must be justice, historical justice. Miroslav Simchich is 91 years old for you to understand. They're older people, but they have the same energy, and they have the right to recognition. And this is an example for those who are now protecting our country's borders there in the East, people like Miroslav Simcic. We need to be respectful. And I have a personal request from the entire Cologne and the City to listen to Miroslav Simchich and vote in favour of the UN and UPA heroes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-14-m0.u85	Dear colleagues, please National Deputy Rudzkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-14-m0.u86	Ladies and gentlemen, I am also addressing all national deputies today, taking advantage of the opportunity that the present and prime minister of Ukraine are present, to vote for a different moratorium on salary and pension indexation and scholarships. [[B in m in s a l in]] This is a matter of concern to tens of millions of Ukrainian citizens, since one third of the wages, family income, have been reduced. [[B in m in s a l in]] I believe, fellow Members, all the issues that concern people should be put to the vote today and included.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-14-m0.u87	Let's stop the provocation, let's go after the content of the law. Please, national deputy Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-14-m0.u88	Vladimir Yavorowski, Trinity, Fatherland. Dear colleagues! So it turned out that today is such an improvised day of justice. Look at how many laws we have passed, those that have been trampled around for months, weeks, or years. Exactly the same with the topic of the Ukrainian Insurgency Army, which continued the spiritual line of Ukraine. For a long time, those who sit in Parliament refused to accept this reality. We have an independent country. In our eyes there is an incredibly patriotic Ukrainian army that continues the UPA line today. As a result, we must accept this question today. Accept and put a dot. Other nations have done this a long time ago. The coastals have recognized their forest brothers, and we must do so. And, Alexander Valentine's Day, it's a good thing that the President has taken our initiative to announce today.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-14-m0.u89	Dear colleagues, I informed you yesterday and will inform you again. The leaders of the parliamentary groups and factions during the Conciliation Council with the President made this proposal. And the President fulfilled his promise, signed the decree. It's okay. So once again, this is not the Supreme Council's prerogative. The Supreme Council makes the weekends, and the holiday days are determined by the President’s decree. Colleagues, please, National Deputy Lazko, Stojko, and we will make a decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-14-m0.u90	October 14, 2014 is a day of restoration of historical justice. Finally, on the 24th year of independence, this day is set as the Day of Fatherland's Defender. Our duty to the younger generation is to pay tribute to the heroes of Ukraine who fought for Ukraine's independence, mentioned veteran Oles Donny. There is a living, blessed God, Yuri Suhevich, who will be elected as the deputy of the Supreme Council of the Radical Party in two weeks. In this. son of Yuri Suhević, son of Roman Shuhevich, legendary commander of the Ukrainian Insurgency Army, who died fighting the Moscow occupation. In this Parliament beneath these walls, there must be a spirit of freedom under this roof, there must be a spirit of fighting for Ukraine, there must be a spirit of heroes. And that's why it's our duty to vote and acknowledge the heroes of the Ukrainian rebel army as fighters for Ukraine's independence.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-14-m0.u91	Ladies and gentlemen, let's proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-14-m0.u92	Thank you. Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians! Indeed, today is a big day in Ukraine: the birthday of the UPA and the Holy Cover Day. For us, therefore, for those representing the Ukrainian Parliament, it is an honor to vote in favour of the recognition of those fighters who, more than half a century ago, fought for a self-sustaining, independent, free Ukraine. They believed in her. Today we have, indeed, the sovereign Ukraine, Ukraine, which is struggling with the Traveling Order for its territorial integrity. And Vejacheslav Kirilenko and Oleg Medunice have long developed this bill. So today's request to all who consider themselves Ukrainians, Ukrainian patriots, the descendants of those fighters who fought for our will to vote in favour of this bill. And it will truly be an honor to those who are still alive today and to those who are not.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-14-m0.u93	Dear colleagues, we've run out of time to talk twice. So please state your position now, please, by a vote. I once again put to the vote the proposal to include in the agenda of this session the draft UN-OPA Act as a belligerent in World War II for Ukraine's freedom and independence. Please, registration number 2111a. Please, Your Honor, support the proposal for inclusion in the agenda. Please vote. [[12:08:21]] For 211 The decision is not taken. Ladies and gentlemen, I have an offer to make. We do. The factions, please. 78 - Fatherland, 1 – Party of Regions, Hit 37, 12 – Economic Development, 17 – "North European Ukraine", "Freedom" – 35.0 – MS, non-fractional – 31. Dear colleagues! I suggest we go in the daytime order now, and when we get to that question, we'll put it to the vote again. [[B in m in s a l in]] My colleagues, once again, I'm ready to bet when I see the dynamics. Oleg Jaroslavovich, I say again, now on matters of importance we walk and now, once again, we move on to this vote. Colleagues, I'm putting it to a vote again, but the only thing I'm asking is that we don't play, but we all mobilize our deputies. Colleagues, everyone has mobilized their deputies. Guys, mobilize, come on, you're gonna raise your hands again. The performances are good, and the votes are good. We don't have enough votes. Therefore, colleagues, give Arieva one minute and we will vote. He knows where to get a few more votes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-14-m0.u94	Dear friends! There are some historical myths that may prevent someone from voting. I have three volumes of documents saved from Lviv, which were from the Lviv archives of the KGB that had been exported to Moscow before. The three volumes were miraculously saved. Well, it's clearly written there, it's for those who think that UPA fought against the Red Army that came back from the front. There were none. There were even orders inside the Ukrainian rebel army not to touch the Red Army. Who did the UPA fight? UPA fought against the NKVD, who shot both the Ukrainians and the Red Army, as fences, harvesting people for their faithful death under the Nazi sphere. So the UPA was actually an ally of the Red Army and that's confirmed, that's what the documents are. Let's finally do one thing, justice has to be historic.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-14-m0.u95	Dear colleagues! I'm reminding you that the UPA wasn't just fighting the NCD, it was also fighting the fascists, protecting Ukraine. Dear colleagues! That is why we should support the proposal to include this issue. Please, colleagues, for the restoration of historical justice. I would like all the MPs to mobilize their voting capabilities. My colleagues, I'm putting it to the vote again. And please try all the resources that are in factions, MP groups, to use for this vote. Please. Please support inclusion in the agenda. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please support inclusion in order. Quiet in the hall. In order of day, the bill (registration number 2111) on the recognition of UN-OPA as a warring party in World War II. Please support the vote of a colleague, not by words, but by voice. Please vote. [[12:12:01]] For 216 The decision is not taken. Colleagues. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues. Please, please. Guys, I don't have a problem putting a hundred votes to the vote. It's important to me that it's a result. I don't see it until the result. So please, colleagues. Now we're looking at more. Oleg Jaroslavovich, I'm here, listen to me, I hear you. I beg you, fellow officers, to announce the Secretariat in all the towers so that everyone can come to the hall. Now we're looking at three laws and we're going back to that question. No, colleagues, let's not interrupt the meetings. [[B in m in s a l in]] I understand. Don't work with me. Work with the hall. Seek out the voices. Keep your voice down, colleagues. Let's not break up the decisions, so many important questions. I'll come back to that question. We're in the middle of a day's work. I'm giving you a chance to work with the hall. My colleagues, work. [[B in m in s a l in]] Work. Colleagues, colleagues. I'll do it again. I have another offer. Deputies! My colleagues, listen to me. I have another offer. Problem, I want to say again. Guys, there's nothing to do in the lobby. We need to do voices in the hall. I suggest you, fellows of honor, pay attention! I propose the following format of our work. I'm going to vote again without asking any questions, yes. After this. Out of the way, please. After that, dear fellows, we are working in every form of the day, we can't stop discussing matters today. You see, the government in its entirety is waiting for these questions. And then in any case, we're going to vote for this process. But once again, dear colleagues, please, I am doing everything I can to make this matter go away. So the problem is not that someone in the Presidium is standing here and helping me, a problem in the hall. Work with the hall, look for votes, convince your colleagues who have doubts about voting for the question. Persuasively. Dear colleagues, I'm putting to the vote the bill (registration number 2111a) on the recognition of UN-OPA as a warring party in World War II on inclusion in the agenda. Colleagues, please. 216 is basically a resource. Please vote. [[12:14:49]] For the 220. The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, I'm back. Let the cards work, my friends. Please work with the hall. Colleagues, work with the hall. Come on. [[Noise Nodes]] Let's look for six votes. Sit in this part of the hall and work. Colleagues, is it possible to vote or not?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-14-m0.u96	I can't hear you! They don't say anything. Colleagues, please work with factions and MPs, friends. The MPs can support it. Colleagues, for inclusion in the agenda. Fellows, let's support, let's support this project. Try it, dear fellows, and we've still got a day's work to do. Please, Your Honor, support me. You do understand how Putin fears this law. How Russian invaders fear this law! So that historic justice in Ukraine will be restored! Please, colleagues, let's support the law together. Please, we all vote. Against the invaders, for Ukraine, 2111a, to be included in the agenda. Please vote. [[12:16:34]] For 218. The decision is not taken. The factions. Parenthood – 78, regions – 1.39 – Impact, 11 – Economic Development, 21 – "European Ukraine", "Freedom" – 35, "MSP" – 0, "non-fractional" – 33. Please, Oleg Pullibok.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-14-m0.u97	Dear colleagues of the Ukrainian National Deputies! I understand it's been down to 218 since 220. Please, let's concentrate! Let's get together here, in this room, and we'll vote for it! But understand, please, this is an extremely important law! Today our Eastern Front heroes are dying there, in the East, for preserving the territorial integrity of the Ukrainian State! For our independence! Those who were raised on the ideas of the Ukrainian Insurgency Army are killed! This will historically be very fair when our Parliament does so. I understand that maybe it's not that important to someone. Maybe someone doesn't give that particular meaning. But really in order to change the system of power in Ukraine, in order for us to actually start building another Ukrainian state, a truly great and powerful state, where the Ukrainian nation, where the Ukrainian people will be the master of our land, we have these things to remember! I beg you now! Today, October 14, today, there are all the necessary possibilities! We're getting married and we're voting again! Let's get it in order of the day! Alexander Valentinovich, call the men in the hall and..
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-14-m0.u98	Dear colleagues!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-14-m0.u99	Alexander Valentinovich, please call the people to the hall. People on the street are now demanding that vote. We can't get out of here unless this law is passed! The Ukrainians won't forgive us!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-14-m0.u100	Dear colleagues, please, let's take our seats. Everyone, please come into the hall. I am the only respected fellow countrymen who are now outside the Supreme Council. Now I'm told there's some tires burning up there, and so forth. I'm talking to the citizens who do this. You're not going to help me pass the law. Now you're just going to lead to some of the deputies leaving the room and no one to vote on. Therefore, those who organize people ask that they be disciplined on the street and that they do not disrupt the work of the Supreme Council, which should work. I beg of you, dear fellows, let's mobilize now. I don't see anyone coming into the hall right now. I'll have the secretariat make an announcement. You can't take the pressure here, you have to vote with your heart, you have to take the responsibility, you have to take the matter, you've got your respectable colleagues. That's why I'm looking at voting dynamics right now. Please let's define whether this project is included in the agenda. Please don't leave the Chamber of Deputies. Ladies and gentlemen, please support the inclusion of 2111a in the agenda. Please vote. [[12:20:14]] For 217 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues! Colleagues, pay attention! Attention! We can now go two ways: call a break. But I have a suspicion that there will be fewer people in the session room after the break. Yeah. Or. Colleagues. Take it easy. Or there's an offer for us to go through, here and by the investors we need to make decisions, you know. We need to make decisions about the return of money. These are very serious questions. So on a selective basis, we need to ensure a transparent election. So, dear colleagues, I ask you not to leave the hall, please work. If you don't leave the hall, your honors, please work with the deputies who can support this law, we'll go back to that. And now, honourable colleagues, I would like to support the introduction into the agenda of the Daily Act of Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislative acts on the Financial Bills of the Fund guaranteeing the contributions of natural persons. Honorable colleagues, you remember, this question is about returning deposits to the population. I'm convinced that those who are on the street right now are also interested in this issue of return of deposits to the population. Please, Your Honor, support the return to this question. Please, 5049, apply to all factions regarding the return to this question. Please vote. 5049, back to that question. [[12:21:59]] For 201 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, I'm calling a 10-minute recess. Faction leaders, please come to my office. The government's management would also like to come in. Break till 12 o'clock, 35 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-14-m0.u101	Dear colleagues, once again I ask you to come to the session room of all the national deputies. Ladies and gentlemen, I see that we have a virtually empty session room. In view of the provocations under the walls of the Supreme Council, attempts to storm the Supreme Council, tossing explosive devices, I believe that those who did so deliberately wanted to disrupt today’s parliamentary session. Those who did so to ensure that important social issues, important economic issues, important issues related to the country’s law enforcement activities, were not accepted today. You and I have been able to adopt an important, strategic package of laws related to the fight against corruption. It's a colossal plus. I am convinced that if there were no provocations against the walls of Parliament today, we would be able to adopt other laws with you during the day. In view of the fact that there are now far fewer than 226 national deputies present in the Supreme Council, and there is no question that we can consider and vote, I am closing today’s session. And I'm going to consult with the leaders of the parliamentary groups and factions on the holding of perhaps another session in normal conditions when the Supreme Council can make decisions and vote effectively. I have been approached by national deputies, and I am also informed that there are now national deputies on board: Pavlenko, Greenewecki, Vaszczuk, Krawczuk. At their request, I announced this information. Good-bye.
