ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-24-m0.u1	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs! Please take your seats. Please prepare for registration and activate the "Council" system. Please. [[16:08:31]] Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to take your seats. 292 national deputies have already been registered. I see that many have not yet been able to insert their cards. Please, fellow Members, ask us to work very effectively and adopt very important legislative acts today, according to our tradition. Traditionally, my dear colleagues, I am pleased to announce that today is the birthday of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Calchenka Valery Mikhailovich. We welcome him from the Supreme Council. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, in accordance with part three of article 60 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and according to personal statements made, I report the withdrawal of the faction of the Party of People's Deputies of Ukraine: Klimova Leonida Mihajlovich and Opanaszczenka Mikhail Volodymirovich. Next announcement. Dear colleagues, in accordance with the Supreme Council of Ukraine regulations, I report on the formation of the MP group "Economic Development" in a group of 33 national deputies. He was the leader of the People’s Chamber of the People’s Republic of China, the first elected Deputy of the People’s Deputies of Homutinika. The list of deputies, my colleagues when they give it to me, I'll be happy to announce it. Dear colleagues, distinguished national MPs! I, with your permission, would like to make another pleasant announcement. We've got an Olympic champion in the balcony here. [[Applause]] Let's welcome the real heroes and champions of Ukraine! [[Applause]] I am convinced that the new authorities will do everything in Ukraine so that the Olympics will be as many as possible and that our athletes will represent our great country. But in order to do that, dear colleagues, we need to work effectively. You've been given the order of the day of today's session. Dear colleagues, the proposal is to vote on it or, traditionally, before considering each law to vote on its inclusion in the agenda. That's better. Let's work like this. The first project to be considered is a draft decree to honor members of the armed conflict during peaceful protests. I give the floor to the national MP, Pharyon Irina Dimitrovni. And, dear fellows, let us consult. We have a lot of work to do both in Parliament and outside Parliament, and above all, it's about forming a coalition government for the new majority. I would suggest that, dear colleagues, that you and I make a decision without discussion. Can I agree with that? Sure. Come on. We're going to make a decision first about putting this in order of day, and then we're going to give the word to Irina Dmitri. Dear colleagues, I would like to vote in favour of the inclusion of Decree 4213, the name of which I have declared to be in the agenda. Please vote. [[16:13:38]] For 322 Decision taken. Please, Irina Dmitrovna. [[16:13:53]] Mr. Head, colleagues! Terrible words, when they're silent, so today this situation, when, frankly, I can't say anything of myself, except reading the legal text that I hope you will support. So, "In expressing solidarity and support for the civilian population that participated in the peaceful protests in Ukraine, in order to honor the fallen during the armed conflicts between November 2013 and February 2014 and to give them the highest honour, following the Ukrainian President's Order on the title "The Hero of Ukraine" of 02.02.2002, the Supreme Council of Ukraine decreed that the next President of Ukraine should be given the title "The Hero of Ukraine" to the fallen civilian participants in the armed conflicts during the peaceful protests in Ukraine during November 2013 and February 2014. This decision takes effect from the moment it is adopted." Perhaps we will become cleaner after that, wiser and deeper. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-24-m0.u2	Turn on the microphone of the Shufrich People's Deputy. There are still those who would like to speak. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-24-m0.u3	Thank you. Dear Chairman, dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-24-m0.u4	I'm sorry. Nestor Ivanovich, let's discuss this in a simplified manner and make a decision. No questions? Please sign up for the performance. I already promised Nestor Ivanovich the first word. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-24-m0.u5	Thank you. Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! Of course, the question that is now being proposed for consideration should be supported by an absolute majority of this room. People died. We are now beginning to understand what circumstances and who gave the wrong orders and who gave the right direction. We are convinced that the faults must be punished, and the death penalty must be venerated, and today we must do our utmost to ensure that their loved ones feel the attention and respect of the State. But today we must unite society. In our faction, and she's willing to vote more than 100 votes, there's a proposal in paragraph 1 to exclude the word "civil" and vote in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-24-m0.u6	Please turn on the microphone of the people's deputy Kaplin.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-24-m0.u7	Please pass the word to Irina Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-24-m0.u8	Turn on the microphone of Deputy Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-24-m0.u9	Dear colleagues! I want to address all the deputies in the room right now. I want you to hear me. This is certainly an important initiative. Just as is the important initiative of our colleague, Mrs. Denisova, who has already drafted a bill on targeted assistance to all families of the dead, particularly to help children. And I think we need to take this as soon as possible. What is more, respected colleagues (especially those who are provided here!), I believe that each of you must take on such personal support a family that has children until the full age of these children to help them. With regard to the ruling proposed by our colleagues in Freedom, we believe that we should not take the word "civil," because civilians were killed because the military were given criminal orders by the authorities. And we have to talk about it honestly. Yes, they were among the military performers who died the same way, but unfortunately they did not do their duty at that time to protect the people of Ukraine, but they did, unfortunately, on another route. And that's why we need to protect the families of the victims from their children being taught and so on, and the Social Security Act will apply to everyone. But as far as the heroes of Ukraine are concerned, they are the people who have protected, including our right to sit freely in this junta hall. And I think the Party of Regions can't even raise questions like that. And we urge everyone to go to the streets of the Institute, which is to be renamed the Street of the Heroes of the Heavenly 100, to worship their memories that have protected democracy and Ukraine’s independence. They're heroes! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-24-m0.u10	Please turn on the microphone of the people's MP Paraskiva, the faction of the Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-24-m0.u11	I support Schuster's offer. Nestor Ivanovich. That's because in this decision you have to rule out the word "civil."
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-24-m0.u12	Please turn on the microphone of the People's Deputies of the Freedoms faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-24-m0.u13	Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians, I would like to ask, first of all, the members of the Party of the Regions to mention the words, the words of yesterday, I don't know, today's leader or ex-director of the Alexander Ephraim faction. Who claimed that the full responsibility for the bloodshed and crimes committed on the streets of Kiev was borne by Yanukovich and his surroundings. It was Yanukovic and his environment that ordered the soldiers of Berkutu, the internal forces and other special forces to stand before the Ukrainians, to launch peaceful protests, and to shoot the Ukrainians. Until we investigate crimes and bring to justice those who carry out criminal orders. Clearly, we cannot identify the people who died during the protests and those who opposed them. I would also like to say something very important. Today, we are contrasting the people who carried out their duties and the people who defended their state voluntarily, the Ukrainians who stood and died on the barricades on the Istituto Street, who were behind us all, for all of you, the distinguished members of the Party of the Regions, in order to rid the country of the Janukovich regime. And that's why they're real heroes. Their feats and their deeds are yet to be properly appreciated. Once again, we emphasize, "The Celestial 100," she's a real hero. And today the Ukrainian society cannot be disturbed, nor can all examples of the deaths of Ukrainians be combined. There are heroes who need to assign these titles. We've got modern heroes, and they're going to be examples for dozens and hundreds of future generations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-24-m0.u14	Please turn on the microphone of the people's MP Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-24-m0.u15	Thank you. Martinyuk, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. Honorable colleagues and a respected presiding officer. Comrade Teryohin, allow me to listen to the presiding officer, because I want to make a proposal to the presiding officer in front of everything. Alexander Valentinovich, listen, please, and please listen to all your colleagues. Let's write our bills correctly. We cannot or do not have the right under the Constitution to entrust the President. We can make a proposal to the President, because only the Ukrainian people will be entrusted to him, and the Supreme Council is not given such constitutional rights. That's why I propose to change instead of "deputy" – "to turn to" the next President of Ukraine with a proposal, then with a text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-24-m0.u16	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I think Adam Ivanovich's proposal is very correct. And, colleagues, let's still support this project by voting on the proposal of Deputy Martinyuk. Please give the project a few words.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-24-m0.u17	I had no intention of approaching the rostrum and responding to what the regionals and Communists said. But given what they're saying, I can only recommend one thing: you either shoot yourself or let yourself go.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-24-m0.u18	I'm sorry, well, that doesn't apply to the subject of the project. And, fellow Members, I ask you very much, let's do it in the Chamber of Deputies, everyone has the right to speak. Guys, put your hands down. And let's work now to rebuild the Ukrainian economy, which is destroyed, so that there will be no more blood on the streets of Ukraine, that all citizens will be protected and that the memory of heroes will be eternal. That is why, with the proposal not to delegate, but to propose to the President, as amended, there are requests, honourable colleagues, to vote on this decision. Please turn on the "Race" system, put to the vote. On the ground and in general, please. [[16:24:09]] For 346 Decision taken. Praise the heroes! [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, please, let us honor their memory for a moment of silence. [[A Minute of Silence]] Thank you. Please sit down. Ladies and gentlemen, let's consult. We now have two bills in place for the liquidation of the special unit of the Berkut militia. That's an important question. But now we have spoken to the acting minister of the interior. It's not just a decision to eliminate, it's a matter of a more systematic approach. And the performer asks that he and the deputies, literally during the period of time, develop these draft decrees so that they have an imperative character and clear solutions to this existing unit. The fact that such a unit will no longer exist is understandable. Another question is the functions that someone has to perform. It's not a function to kill people, it's a function to protect people, to fight especially dangerous criminals, and so on, and these functions should be done by someone. And that's why we're asking to redesign the projects together with the Ministry of Internal Affairs, so that we can accept them at the next meeting. No objections? There's no objection. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a draft decision to respond to the violation by the judges of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine of a judge's oath. Before giving the floor to the rapporteur, the national deputy, Mr. Devyanko Yuri Bogdanovich, is offered to include this draft decree in the order of our sitting. Please include, I'll also give you my word, please, the " Rada" system, we'll vote. Both. Both bills, I see there's an alternative. Please vote for inclusion in the agenda. [[16:26:44]] For 324 Thank you. Dear colleagues, 324 in favour. Decision taken. And let's make one more decision with you, so that we still work exclusively within the Rules. Will we not discuss it or discuss it in a simplified manner, Your Honor? I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Then let's make a decision on the discussion of the reduced procedure, please vote on the proposal. Who's in? [[16:27:24]] For 283 Decision taken. I invite you to the rostrum of the People’s Derevyanco. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-24-m0.u19	Dear Alexander Valentinovich, distinguished colleagues, respected Ukrainians! As you know, on September 30, 2010, the Constitutional Court of Ukraine adopted a decision on the compliance of the Constitution of Ukraine with Law 2222, which, in an unconstitutional way, by authorizing the Supreme Council of Ukraine, attempted to change the Constitution of Ukraine. By this decision, the Constitutional Court violated the fundamental constitutional principle of the peoples of the State. You know, 18 judges of the Constitutional Court have considered this issue. Two judges of the Constitutional Court, Shishkin and Steczuk, did not vote in favour. However, other judges of the Constitutional Court gave President Yanukovic the opportunity to usurp power in Ukraine. It is these judges who have made it possible to usurp the power that has led to the terrible consequences that we see today. This led to hundreds of dead, thousands of mutilated, to broken fates, to a vast number of people who had taken property that had been cut down, beaten by aunts who had raped Ukraine for three years. This was done by the judges of the Constitutional Court. Those who have surrendered or succumbed to pressure are the judges who have violated their oath to the judge of the Constitutional Court. Moreover, these judges, as well as those appointed later, allowed the Cabinet of Ministers to regulate the level manually by decision of January 25, 2012.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-24-m0.u20	I'm asking you to give me the opportunity to complete the report.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-24-m0.u21	Allowing the Cabinet to manually regulate all social benefits. In addition, these judges allowed them not to hold elections in Kiev, in violation of China’s will. I mean, in the hands of these judges, the blood of our people, the blood of our dead brothers. The honourable national deputies, the judges of the Constitutional Court who had taken the above - mentioned decisions, violated the provisions of articles 3, 19, 147, 153 of the Constitution of Ukraine, which was a failure to secure the rule of the Constitution of Ukraine, a breach of the duty to protect the constitutional order of the State, constitutional rights and freedoms of man and citizen, and to contradict the content of the oath of the Constitutional Court judge, the honest and conscientious exercise of the duty of the judge of the Constitutional Court. That is why the Supreme Council proposes to release for violating the oaths of the Constitutional Court judges appointed by the Supreme Council, namely: Principal Anatolia Sergiyovich, Colossus Mikhail Ivanovich, Marcus Marija Andriyevna, Ovcharenko Vijacheslav Andriyovich, Pasenyuk Alexandr Mihajlovich. It is also proposed that the President of Ukraine be released for violating the oath of the judges of the Constitutional Court of judges appointed by the President of Ukraine. The ruling also proposes that the Council of Judges of Ukraine convene an extraordinary assembly of judges of Ukraine in a three - day period to consider the issue of dismissal for violating the oaths of the judges of the Constitutional Court who were appointed to the assembly of judges of Ukraine. Honourable national deputies, the release of Constitutional Court judges who have broken an oath, this is the first step in illustrating the judicial system, this is one of the main requirements of our society and Ukrainian citizens. Dear colleagues, under the transcript, I ask the Attorney-General to ask the Commissioner-General of the Supreme Council of the Attorney-General to ensure that the judges of the Constitutional Court can not be removed from the territory of Ukraine. I ask the High Commissioner of the General Prosecutor's Office to ensure that the judges of the Constitutional Court are investigated and brought to justice for all decisions they have made. Ladies and gentlemen, please support Decree 4076 and release the judges of the Constitutional Court. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-24-m0.u22	Thank you. Dear colleagues! There's an alternative project by the national deputy Lászko Oleg Valeriyovich. Please come to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-24-m0.u23	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Alexander Valentine's Day, you're talking as if I'm proposing not to fire the judges, it's not really an alternative, it's similar. I propose that the judges of the Constitutional Court be released on the quota of the Supreme Council, because these judges helped usurp Yanukov's authority, which is the result of today's opposition, the bloodshed. These judges need to be released with a wolf's ticket without a weekend leave, take away from them all the wages and pensions they've received, take away everything they've received from the state. After all, they actually helped Yanukovich to usurp power and destroy the state. Alexander Valentinovich, i.e. it doesn't matter what project to vote on, whether it's mine or a tree, they're the same. I'm talking about the agenda. Alexander Valentine's Day, the order of the day that you have prepared and proposed, does not match the historical moment. I demand that today, without leaving the Supreme Council, we consider a few very important issues. First. To take a decision by the Supreme Council, to oblige the State Border Service to ban all state officials from going abroad: judges, prosecutors, militias, central executives, as they flee from Ukraine, we give them the opportunity to flee. The people in Maidan are very dissatisfied. Next. I now demand that the Supreme Council consider immediately the issue of the ban on Ukraine's Company and the Party of Regions as criminal organizations with the blood of Ukrainian citizens on their hands. You don't tell me a story about the country's partition, if we vote, the whole country will thank us when we ban the Communist Party and the Communist Party. Alexander the Turkinov, I am addressing you with another historical moment. If we don't make this historic decision now, society won't understand or support us. The glory of Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-24-m0.u24	Dear colleagues, I'd like you to sign up for this. Turn on the "Race" system. Ilik, the Ilik People's Deputy, the Fatherland faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-24-m0.u25	Please pass the word to Victor Sweden.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-24-m0.u26	Ladies and gentlemen, we, the opposition factions in the Supreme Council, have since the first day of this shameful anti-constitutional decision by the Constitutional Court, have asked the question that this decision is completely unconstitutional and that it usurps state authority in Ukraine to one person. We also drew the attention of the judges of the Constitutional Court, and the Attorney General's Office to clearly illegal decisions against the anti-constitutional system, and asked the relevant national institutions about criminal offences and the involvement of guilty persons in serious criminal responsibility. Sadly, though, that power that existed at the time refused to take appropriate measures of criminal persecution against these persons. In this regard, dear colleagues, I propose that, firstly, the text of the decree be changed slightly, its resolution part. Not just to release the judges of the Constitutional Court, but to write, "The Supreme Council decides: for taking anti-constitutional action and violating an oath, to suspend the powers of the judges of the Constitutional Court in a timely manner and to release them from office." It's still by name. The second point is to entrust the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine with the criminal conduct of the illegal anti-constitutional decision of 30 September 2010 and all guilty persons with criminal responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-24-m0.u27	Thank you. I am now addressing the distinguished national MP, Derevjanka. I'd like you to fix the proposals, please. I'll give you my word after the speeches so that you can offer the final edition so that it can be accepted by the hall. Please give the floor to the national MP Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-24-m0.u28	Thank you. Martinyuk, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, it's hard to understand why we should vote, because unfortunately, I didn't understand the reporter that he was reporting: a draft decision that is a reality, or what he would want to be in this project? Because when it comes to criminal persecution, when it comes to other punishments, no trial and no investigation, you and I are on the same path as the Constitutional Court: what they did wrong, and now, if we believe the report, we are taking over the functions of the judicial and prosecutorial institutions. So I'd like to ask the reporters very much because we don't have enough material and we don't have, we work practically out of a voice, specifically and clearly, to say what's in the resolve. Because your colleagues, the reporter who talked about this bill, said that it was a work in progress, and there are no issues in this finalized bill that you were talking about, there was only a release of judges, and you're already talking about bringing responsibility and other actions without trial and investigation. So once again, I'm asking: Reporters, when you speak, you say clearly what is being proposed and what we are going to vote for, so we can vote consciously.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-24-m0.u29	People's MP Melnik. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-24-m0.u30	Please give the floor to Dr. Alexander Oxenthyovich Shevchenk. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-24-m0.u31	National MP, Freedom faction, Alexander Shevchenko. I would like to draw the attention of honourable deputies to the fact that, in the fifth paragraph of the draft Supreme Council decree, it is necessary to refer to the Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Kosulinski, for two days, on behalf of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Attorney-General of Ukraine, for the violation of criminal conduct regarding the verification of signs of criminal offences provided for in the Criminal Code of Ukraine and so on. And here comes the list of judges. The reporter himself said that the judges of the Constitutional Court such as Shishkin Vladimir Ivanovich and Steczek had a separate opinion. But in the recommendations to bring criminal responsibility is called Shishkin Viktor Ivanovich both in the draft decree and in the explanatory note. He's asking why? For taking a stand, did he express his opinion? And here they are, under a single gauze, said to be being tried to stir up a criminal case. I think we should throw out Shishkin Viktor Ivanovich's last name. Besides, Lazko runs here, yells "no Communist Party and Party of Regions." Your Honor, the Supreme Council does not have that right. We need to go to court and have the court determine whether we should. Whether there's a reason or not. Prepare that question and deal with it normally. Which is why I don't think we should rush into that question. We need to get him ready. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-24-m0.u32	Thank you. The word is given to the national deputy Heratchenko. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-24-m0.u33	Please hand over to the Romaniuk People's Deputy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-24-m0.u34	Turn on the microphone of the Romaniuk People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-24-m0.u35	Thank you. It's Vitaly Call's Faction, Roman Romanyuk. Our faction will support the adoption of this decision's draft. We believe that the judges of the Constitutional Court, who boldly made illegal decisions and adopted the authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, are subject to exemption. We support the updating of the composition of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, and we will also vote in favour of the draft decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-24-m0.u36	Please turn on the microphone of national deputy Shufrich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-24-m0.u37	Thank you. Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! I want to address the whole of Ukraine and everyone who can see us and hear us. Today we will witness the first act of punishment and the prosecution of the people who led to the spill of blood in Ukraine and on the streets of Kiev. [[B in m in s a l in]] These judges of the Constitutional Court, by their decision of 30 September 2010, actually usurped power, which was the root cause of the death of our citizens on the one hand and on the other. Today we will bring them to justice. And I hope that the Office of the Attorney-General and the Ministry of the Interior and the Security Service will bring what has been started in this room. These people must be punished, and this must be the beginning of punishment for those who.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-24-m0.u38	Please let me finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-24-m0.u39	And this must be the beginning of punishment for those who have led by their actions to the death of our citizens on the other side of the barricade. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-24-m0.u40	Dear colleagues, the word is given to the national deputy Petrenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-24-m0.u41	Dear colleagues, as one of the co-authors of this decision, I would like to make the situation clear. Indeed, as the Supreme Council, the only legitimate body, we do not have the right to work against constitutional action, including with regard to the appointment and release of the judges of the Constitutional Court. That ruling, which is currently being considered in the session room, provides for a clear, constitutional way of exercising the powers of the Supreme Council regarding the release of judges, including the judges of the Constitutional Court for violating an oath. The facts of the breach of an oath are obvious and are set forth in the preamble to that decree. The judges of the Constitutional Court, in violation of article 19 of the Constitution, effectively took over the functions of the Supreme Council by amending the Constitution by trying to change the Constitution. In addition, these judges of the Constitutional Court made a number of other oodious decisions that restricted or deprived citizens of the rights provided for in the Constitution. I want to verify everyone right now and make it clear about the text of the resolution part of the ruling. I'm literally going to read the text of the resolution part, that's in response to our colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-24-m0.u42	Allow me to finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-24-m0.u43	The Supreme Council of Ukraine orders, in accordance with article 126, part five, of the Constitution of Ukraine, to release for violating the oath of the judges of the Constitutional Court: Principal Anatolia Sergiyovich; Colossa Mikhail Ivanovich; Marcus Maria Andriyevna; Ovcharenka Vijacheslav Andriyovich; and Pasinuk Alexandr Mihajlovich. These are the judges who have been appointed, chosen more loyally by our quota, the Supreme Council. Similarly, we propose that the acting President of Ukraine be released for violating the oaths of the judges of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine who were assigned to this office, namely, Baulina and Widowishka. Similarly, we invite the Council of Judges of Ukraine to convene an assembly of judges of Ukraine immediately within three days to consider the issue of the exemption for violating the oaths of the judges of the Constitutional Court: Brincev, Gultaya, Zaporoznik, Sergeichuk, and Shaptalo. I would like to inform you that it was these Constitutional Court judges who had taken decisions since September 30, 2010, that these Constitutional Court judges had made a number of other decisions concerning restrictions on the electoral rights of citizens and restrictions on the rights of citizens to social protection when the Cabinet of Ministers was in fact granted the right to restrict benefits to Ukrainian citizens without appropriate legislative initiatives. But most of the time, 99 percent of the judges took the Constitutional Court's decision of September 30, 2010 to change the Constitution. Those judges who made separate opinions and were simple decisions, the decision of September 30, 2010, of course, did not enter the list of judges, and we do not question them for breaking their oath. This is the same for all members of Parliament when voting for the draft regulation. We are obliged to evaluate the actions of the judges who broke the oath and actually pushed the country into civil opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-24-m0.u44	Please come to the rostrum of the national deputy, Mr. Dreviánek Yuri Bogdanović, to comment on the proposals made by the people’s deputies before this decision and to propose a final vote. Please, Yuri Bogdanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-24-m0.u45	Dear colleagues, the amendment has come. Where it was written "to release the judges of the Constitutional Court for breach of oath" it is proposed that the phrase "to terminate the mandate in a timely manner and release the judges of the Constitutional Court for violating the oath of a judge." Next amendment. It is suggested that where the President of Ukraine was instructed, he should invite the President of Ukraine to formulate, propose to the Acting President of Ukraine. Next amendment. Complete the order with the next paragraph. "The General Prosecutor's Office of Ukraine violate criminal conduct on the application of Constitutional Court Decision No.20-pp/2010 and bring all guilty persons to justice." Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to support the draft ruling, taking into account the amendments that have been announced.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-24-m0.u46	One moment! I'm asking the honourable reporter, let's hold hands, so I understand the right of this ruling by the national deputy of Labunsk and the national MP of Miroshnichenko. I ask you to give them one minute for your suggestions. Please stay in the rostrum and comment on their suggestions.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-24-m0.u47	Dear colleagues, I would like to point out that the judges who took part in this criminal decision are no longer judges of the Constitutional Court. And I ask you to note that Mr. Stirzak, they were already, who was the reporter on this case, he is no longer the judge of the Constitutional Court. And it may be necessary, in the determination, to state that it was in the form in which it was issued, so today those judges who took part in the consideration of the matter (the decision taken) and the reporter who prepared the matter find that he avoids responsibility. I'm asking you to take that into account, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-24-m0.u48	Please comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-24-m0.u49	With regard to this amendment. I would like to point out that, in fact, the Attorney General's Office, we ask the Attorney General's Office to violate criminal conduct on the fact that the decision has been made and to bring all the guilty persons, all of them: both those who have been prepared and those who have been tipped, and those who are now judges, and those who are no longer judges, all those responsible. This amendment is therefore included.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-24-m0.u50	Please turn on the microphone of the People’s Peacekeeper.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-24-m0.u51	Dear Mr. Yuri, my colleagues! Now that we're asking this question about the responsibility of judges who, in my opinion, are not valid. Because they declared unconstitutional Law 2222. Are you prepared to put into question the responsibility of the parliament that was to consider this issue and to make changes to the Constitution? Because now there are people in this room who signed this application who voted in favour of a whole series of laws on administrative reforms that we canceled yesterday. I think there should be a conscience, Mr. Yuri, when we say that someone is to blame. You have to remember yourself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-24-m0.u52	Please turn on the microphone of the people’s MP Rudzkowski and we will make the decision in the editorial form offered by Yuri Bogdanovic.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-24-m0.u53	Ladies and gentlemen, I believe we are in a position, and I ask the author to make the necessary changes, because the decision is not given, and we have foreseen that it is not only constitutional reform. There were other decisions that the whole country knew: concerning the third term of Leonid Danilovich Kuchma, there were decisions to abolish the Law, the Acts of the Children of War Act, and social laws. These decisions of the judges of the Constitutional Court must be considered by law enforcement authorities. That's the first one. The other one. In view of what we plan to consider within three months the changes to the Constitution regarding local self - government, it is the gathering of lawyers to form the composition of the Constitutional Court, not the Supreme Council for their own interests, based on the political interests of those or others.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-24-m0.u54	Please, I'm asking the reporter. Yuri Bogdanovich, with your rights, are we ready to put to the vote?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-24-m0.u55	Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-24-m0.u56	Yes. Dear colleagues, please. Ask for an amendment to Oleg Igorevich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-24-m0.u57	Oleg Knaczykki, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. I just took the floor, I asked, because I had a call. I want to give an immediate answer that the Attorney General's Office is considering and examining these issues, which have been raised, including the abuse of the judges of the Constitutional Court, the facts of the possible bribe and the information given to the internal affairs authorities is that even those lists found in the territory of the Inter-Igoria, the lists of persons who have been bribed appear to the judges. So these questions are being studied, they're going to be carefully explored. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-24-m0.u58	Oleg Igorevich, I planned to give you my word after we voted this law so that you could inform us at all, as we agreed, of the events that the prosecution is investigating in connection with the Supreme Council's mandate. Dear colleagues, I ask you to sit down, Honorable Deputy Derevyanco. And, colleagues, please also take your seats. All I ask, colleagues, is that in accordance with the Constitution, national MPs vote in person. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for the vote. The draft Decree on Response to Violations by Judges of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine (No. 4076) deals with the vote. Please turn on the "Race" system. [[16:55:30.]] For 307 Thank you. Decision taken. 307 votes. We voted on the basis and in general, I remind you. Dear colleagues, the next issue of the agenda will be discussed after the information provided by the Commissioner of the Supreme Council on matters of the Attorney General's Office. Please. Please, Oleg Igorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-24-m0.u59	Dear colleagues, during this period of work of the Attorney General's Office, since which I have been appointed Commissioner, I can report on the steps taken by the Prosecutor's Office. Thus, the case against the first State officials and law enforcement agencies for organizing mass killings in this case, as of today, is determined by the declaration of suspicion. I can generally say that there are about 50 people on the case, some of whom are senior law enforcement officials. To investigate the fact that 74 citizens of Ukraine were deliberately killed in the city of Kiev during protests in the center of the capital. According to the signs of the crime provided for in article 115, the first part is deliberate murder under burdensome circumstances. It is united, as I reported yesterday, in 74 cases of deliberate killings of civilian protesters. In order to conduct a pretrial investigation into criminal conduct, an investigative group was established, which included investigators from the particularly important cases of the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine, as well as investigators from the district attorneys of a total of 44 persons. The management of the BSI and the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine is proposed to appoint 250 operational staff to carry out operational escorts to the crime scene. A number of investigators and search-and-rescue operations have already been carried out in criminal proceedings. The commission is to establish witnesses of the killings of people and persons who have committed them. Installation of video recordings from surveillance cameras located in the central part of Kiev for the purpose of reviewing records. Letters sent to institutions, organizations located in the central part of Kiev for the purpose of exterminating video recordings of events from February 18 to 21, 2014. U.S.S.A. has been asked to provide information on workers involved in clashes with protest participants and their weapons. The Ministry also requires orders, regulations that regulate the activities of the Ministry’s departments during mass action, and regulations for the use of the Ministry of Firearms. A request was also made to the Ministry of Internal Affairs for information on the type and number of weapons issued to every employee involved in the clashes in the city center of Kiev. The site was reviewed, including the building of the National Bank of Ukraine and the area on Istituto Street, where elements of sniper weapons, shells, bullets, and damaged wood holes were discovered yesterday. Forensic and ballistic experts and experts are appointed and conducted. I also want to report that yesterday, when criminal cases were enforced by the Ministry of Internal Affairs, 74 criminal cases were committed. separate criminal cases based on the murder, that's what I reported yesterday, in these criminal cases. There was no procedural act among the materials of the criminal case, except for a report on the scene. That is, no investigation, no criminal investigation was carried out in all criminal cases by the time these cases were received by the Attorney General's Office. Representatives of the Ministry of Emergency Situations are also appointed to take part in the fires and provide assistance to victims in clashes with members of the Ministry. During this time, other investigations are being carried out by the investigators of the Ukrainian Attorney General’s Office with the participation of specialists, as well as a month’s review of events on the street of the Institute and adjacent territories. The next issue is the beating of students on November 30, 2013, which was closed, as you remember. It's a matter of amnesty. Today, the reintroduction of this criminal case is violated under article 340. This article foresees responsibility for obstructing peaceful assembly and rallying through the use of violence, as well as addressing the issue of a criminal offence based on the signs of terrorism. In addition, let's address the issue of the release of the defendants from the so-called Vasilka case, and the state for this time all three convicted persons are released from custody. [[Applause]] The Office of the Attorney General, together with the Ministry of Internal Affairs, is also investigating a criminal case in connection with the illegal kidnapping of Lucenk and Verbicki. The first arrests have begun. And this time, two people are being detained -- these are senior employees of the Ministry of Internal Affairs. [[Applause]] Also required by the Office of the Attorney General of the Court of Justice is a criminal case for an assassination attempt on Blackwall's life for further investigation. This criminal case has been reclassified on attempted murder. There is also a question of possible qualifications for the signs of terrorism. Also required by the Attorney General’s Office for the further investigation of a criminal case involving the kidnapping of Bulatov. It has been entrusted to all the district authorities of the Public Prosecutor’s Office to investigate all matters relating to the disposal of Lenin’s monuments. These were cases that were illegally violated in an empty place — for the destruction of Lenin’s monuments. And one more thing. As you recall, during the events in Midan, about torture, the torture of Gabrieluk, who was stripped out of the ice by the Berkutu workers. There are also several police officers suspected in this case and the issue of their taking into custody is being resolved. [[Applause]] In addition, a review by the Attorney General’s Office regarding personnel matters revealed that in the course of mass action and use, repression, and prosecution officials who were instruments of repression who carried out repression tasks. Their actions against the Ukrainian people were encouraged by the leadership of the Attorney General’s Office. I've got a whole bunch of incentive orders in my hands that were issued for appropriate actions, i.e. arrests, arrests, rallying and even being held accountable. They even documented themselves, there's even a photograph about this. Today, too, the Office of the Attorney -General of Ukraine is actively addressing the issue of the release of Pauluchenki. Thank you for your attention. If there's a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-24-m0.u60	Dear colleagues, we don't have time to ask, because there are so many more questions that we need to consider. I think it's possible for Oleg Igorevich to ask questions in the working order. So he works here with us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-24-m0.u61	Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-24-m0.u62	Dear colleagues! There is a proposal, taking into account the speeches that have been made, and the subject is so painful and relevant to Ukrainian citizens that we do not write in a separate decision of all officials or all of the militias or all the judges, but have accepted the following commission and formed it by the Supreme Council Order, that the Attorney General's Office, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Ukrainian Security Service will give the Border Service a list of suspects in the mass killings of citizens, as well as the facts of widespread corruption. The foreign service does not allow these citizens to leave the territory of Ukraine according to this list. In this format can we make decisions, dear colleagues? We can. I ask you to turn on the "Council" system and vote on this project, which we will form as our decision-making decision. Please turn on the "Race" system. [[17:07:02]] For 323 Thank you. "To" is 323. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we must now consider a very important project – this is a draft of the Law! amending Appendix No. 3 to the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2014 (for expenditure on the election of the President of Ukraine). There's a proposal to put this bill into the agenda that we're going to consider right now. Please include "The Council" and vote to put this draft law into the agenda. Please. [[17:07:52]] For 341 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, let us vote in favour of this brief procedure. Or we could even vote ad hoc without consideration. Yeah? Please vote on the ad hoc procedure to make a decision on this matter without considering it. Please vote. No discussion, please, no discussion, I apologize, no discussion. Please vote. [[17:08:32]] For 337 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I ask you to read the draft law of the Head of the Committee on Budget Affairs of Gjellier Evgen Borisovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-24-m0.u63	Dear Alexander Valentinovich, distinguished national deputies and invited! Allow me to present the proposed bill, which I am the author of, and also to make a proposal to the Committee on Budget Affairs on it. The implementation of the bill aims to provide financial support for the preparation and holding of the extraordinary elections of the President of Ukraine on 25 May 2014. The drafting of the bill is surrounded by the adoption of the Supreme Council on February 22, this year, and the corresponding mandate of the Head of the Supreme Council to refer the head of the Central Electoral Commission. In view of the above, it is proposed to increase the expenditure of the General Fund of the State Budget to the Central Electoral Commission under the new budget programme 673.10. 40 elections by the President of Ukraine amounting to 1 billion 965.5 million dollars. The coverage of the allowances, the expenditure of the State budget, is proposed by redistributing the budgetary allocations by individual budgetary programmes. The main scientific and expert office believes that the bill can be adopted as a basis. As a result of the committee’s consideration, he decided to recommend to the Supreme Council a bill for registration number 4229 as a result of the first reading to be adopted as a basis and generally as a law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-24-m0.u64	Ladies and gentlemen, do you understand the meaning of the law? Please prepare for the vote and we will now vote. I just want to comment, probably Victor Mikhailovich Pinzenik also wants to say that there is an opportunity, and we'll have the commission to cut costs from this direction, i.e. presidential elections, in case the Supreme Council adopts changes to electoral legislation to allow a reduction in the number of members of the commission. It's going to be a big cost economy, taking into account the terrible situation that is now around the implementation of the country's budget. Still, Victor Mikhailovich, extra. Please turn on Pinzenik's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-24-m0.u65	Dear national MPs, honourable chairman, in the light of what Alexander Valentinovich has said, I propose to uphold the bill, it is balanced. But at the same time, for the transcript, to give a mandate to the newly formed government to conduct a thorough examination of the underlying asset in order to optimize the costs, because unfortunately, they don't fit in a little bit because they were a few years ago. And then make it clear to the budget. And now to vote, for the transcript, and to give an order to the government.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-24-m0.u66	Dear colleagues, I don't see the problem and I support this proposal. Let's give the stenographer the government's mandate to optimize expenditure, but the main optimization will take place after we accept the changes to electoral legislation. Please. The bill? Guys, let's vote, let's not waste time. I suggest you, Your Honor, prepare for the vote. Eugene Borisovich, we are preparing for the vote. Ah, you have a card here. Thank you. Dear colleagues, please turn on the "Race" system. There is a proposal to vote this law as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. Registration number 4229 of this law. [[17:12:40]] For 352 Decision taken. Thank you, my fellow Members, for the effective work of our Parliament. In fact, you and I have launched an electoral campaign in Ukraine that will be an example of how we can honestly, transparently, democratically choose the head of state. Please, a replica. Turn on the microphone of the people's MP Rudzkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-24-m0.u67	Mr. Alexander Valentine's Day, honourable members of the people, I propose, given that we have already voted on the President's election in May this year, and that we have also allocated funding, Alexander Valentinovich, I propose now for the purpose of economics 4198-1 – the Order on the Election of the City Head of Kiev and the City Council. And together we've allocated the funds and now we're going to vote on the funding of the allocated. We can't run a separate election. So we're going to have one election campaign. And by the way, we're about to form a new city council and we're going to pick a city head and we're going to have a new power system in Kiev in May. Please put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-24-m0.u68	Dear colleagues, this question is very relevant. This is what the sneezes insist on. And I propose that we now prepare carefully and agree on the technical procedure and the time of the elections. I'll have this decree tomorrow in the daytime. No objections? I won't. Thank you. Colleagues, a line, please. Dear colleagues, I ask you, I know the suggestions that will be about the additional decisions that need to be made. I'm asking you very much for a moment, my friends, calm down. I'm asking you a lot of questions, but let's still have that agenda, we have two questions left, we're going to go through it. And then there are other questions that I really need to consider, and I know about them. Please, Your Honor, about our order of the day. In addition, my fellow Members, there is also a proposal tomorrow, if possible, if we do not have problems with the decision on the coalition government, to consider draft decisions on other elections in other cities of Ukraine that have been prepared by our profile committee. There's no objection, I understand? There's no denying it. Dear colleagues, there's a proposal to consider the project, the only thing I don't see is the number of this project, and I would like to comment on this topic of the authors of this project on the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court. Paul Petrenko, please turn on his microphone, the national deputy of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-24-m0.u69	Honorary colleagues, the adoption and application of the Rome Statute, which will in fact allow crimes against humanity to be referred to the International Hague Tribunal, are extremely important. Now, in conjunction with experts from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, with constitutionalists, the copyright team, which consists of almost all factions, is working on a model of the relevant decision of the Supreme Council so that without any delay all procedures are applied and the guilty persons are brought to trial. I have a suggestion that we move this issue to tomorrow and vote tomorrow on both the basis and the whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-24-m0.u70	Dear colleagues, no objection to moving the matter to tomorrow? There's no objection. We're moving it to tomorrow. I'm asking the project authors to prepare. In addition, a ruling, an appropriate decision, on the same issue, has been tabled for consideration by Parliament. I ask you to identify and prepare these documents so that the Supreme Council can accept them. Dear colleagues, we have a few personal questions with you, which we also need to take. In particular, this applies to the activities of intelligence in Ukraine. We have, you know, military intelligence, non-military intelligence. And, dear colleagues, these important bodies should work for the state. As long as we don't have a coalition government, until we have all the executive verticals formed, we need to step up these important activities that are specifically authorized by this direction, which we have already begun to assign to other, equally important, activities. That's why, dear colleagues, I am very much asking you to consider and put into order the daily draft Decision on the appointment of Viktor Ivanovich, the Commissioner for the Control of Intelligence in Ukraine. I would like to remind you that Mr. Viktor Ivanovich is a humane military general, and he was in charge of Ukrainian military intelligence, and he was released for political reasons by the previous President. Dear colleagues, Decree 4218. There's an offer to put it in the agenda. Please. I'd like to turn on the "Ray" system. [[17:19:01]] For 309 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a proposal to vote so that we can make this decision without discussion. No objections? There's no objection. Please turn on the "Race" system. Please vote. [[17:19:36]] For 309 309 votes. It's not a decision yet. Take your time, dear friends. We agreed that we would vote without discussion. I ask the committee head to read out the draft ruling.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-24-m0.u71	Dear colleagues, I'd like to read the draft ruling. "According to the fact that the President of Ukraine's self-removal from the exercise of his powers, recognizing the responsibility for the situation in the State, including the need to ensure national security, the Supreme Council decides to appoint Mr. Viktor Ivanovich, Commissioner for the Control of the Activities of the External Intelligence Service, the Intelligence Authority of the Ministry of Defence and the Intelligence Authority of the Special Central Executive Authority in matters of the protection of the State border. This decision takes effect from the moment it is adopted." At the same time, I would ask you, Alexander Valentine's Day, taking into account the complex situation that is now in Crimea, to commission a protocol committee on national security and defence to Volodymyr Mikhajlovich Litvin to create a working group to deal with all the dangerous issues that are now in Crimea and Sevastopol.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-24-m0.u72	Ladies and gentlemen, I don't think any of you would deny that this is the protocol order. No objections? I won't. We're giving this protocol assignment. Dear colleagues, there is a proposal to vote in favour of the draft decree, which is now announced by the Head of the Professional Committee for the appointment of Viktor Ivanovich, Commissioner for the Control of Intelligence Activities in Ukraine (project number 4218). Please include the "Council" system and vote on the basis, as a whole. Please, dear fellows. [[17:21:40]] For 313 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, Victor Mikhailovich, on this matter? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-24-m0.u73	Dear Alexander Valentinovich! Dear colleagues! I'd like to request a protocol on the legislation that was voted yesterday. Yesterday, when we voted for a return to laws in connection with the restoration of the Constitution in 2004, we introduced one important thing that, after the amendment of the Constitution on October 7, many laws were introduced that were not related to the change of the Constitution. When we voted in the law to restore the standards by October 7, we automatically canceled all the changes that were made after that date. We can resolve this problem, or by commissioning the committee concerned to clarify it in accordance with article 131, or perhaps now the appropriate wording, taking into account the actions and regulations that were voted in the relevant laws after October 7. That is our task: to distinguish between what was involved in the change of the Constitution and what had been adopted in the order of plans as changes to laws.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-24-m0.u74	Dear Victor Mikhailovich, National Deputy Teryohin has made an appropriate proposal, is now being drafted and will be put to the vote tomorrow. Please let's give General Viktor Ivanovich a few words, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-24-m0.u75	Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! I thank you for the trust you've expressed to me here in this room. I will use my 30-year experience in intelligence, including as a military intelligence director, in today's complex geopolitical and geostrategic conditions in which Ukraine is located to activate the intelligence community. We need to know every movement that's going on around our border. We need to know who is coming officially or informally. And you, as consumers of information, should have this information full, real and timely. That's what I see as my job. I see the main task in coordinating intelligence. I'll tell you that many of them are demoralized today. They don't know what information to report, what information they can get on their heads. Any information, it should be on your desk, and you should make a decision on it. Someone likes her or doesn't like her, that's all we're going to give. I'd like to turn to the intelligence co-workers with the opportunity: you are and were the best, you were the elite of Ukraine. Most of you. To whom there is a question, let the Attorney General's Office handle it. You need to work quietly. I am not going with reprisals, but I am going so that we can together protect our Fatherland from the external threats that Ukraine faces. And as the ancients say: ""the informed is armed." Thank you for your attention. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-24-m0.u76	Thank you. Please turn it on, please. Thank you. Please turn on the microphone to the national deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-24-m0.u77	Dear colleagues, Reverend Alexander Valentinovich! After such a vote, the following decision is asked: You have all the powers and opportunities to release those executives who are currently in and out of work. I mean, the head of Illashov's external development, the head of military intelligence, and other special intelligence assignments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-24-m0.u78	I am sure that I will take this offer into account. Dear colleagues, now we have another very important personnel issue. I want to inform you that the head of the Sorkin National Bank is asking him to resign as head of the Nutzbank. In this regard, honourable colleagues, there is a proposal to include in the agenda the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s decision to release Sorkin on the basis of his resignation claim. Please include this order in the order of the day, number 4247. Please activate the "Council" system and vote. [[17:27:13]] For 331 Thank you. 331 votes for. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I'm going to make this decision very brief. Order number 4247. According to article 85, part 1, paragraph 18, of the Constitution, the Supreme Council of Ukraine decides to release Sorkin Igor Viacheslavovich from office of head of the National Bank on the basis of his resignation application. There is a proposal to vote on this decision. Is there no objection? I ask her to vote on the basis as a whole. Please turn on the "Race" system. Order number 4247. Please. [[17:28:13]] For 352 352 votes for. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, in these complex, even dramatic, conditions we cannot leave the National Bank without guidance. This is why a draft Order on the appointment of Kubov Stepan Ivanovich as head of the National Bank of Ukraine is being introduced. [[Applause]] Friends, let's vote – then welcome, please! Draft regulation 4248. Please include it in the agenda. Please vote. [[17:29:07]] For 312 Thank you. 312 for. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I ask you to now vote this decree as a basis and as a whole. No discussion, dear fellows. Can we vote? We can. Please, Your Honor, let us vote that we will still be free from discussion to make decisions in accordance with the Rules. Please support the proposal to make a decision without discussion. Please turn on the Glad System, we're voting. [[17:30:01]] For 312 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we must now vote, but we have not voted, Stepan Ivanovich, you see the tension. Let's support it by voting. And now I'm putting to the vote Order (4248) on the appointment of Kubov Stepan Ivanovich as head of the National Bank of Ukraine. Please turn on the "Council" system and vote. Guys, I'll be right there. [[17:30:39]] For 310 Decision taken. Stepan Ivanovich, please to the rostrum of the Supreme Council. It's a very difficult and responsible direction of work.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-24-m0.u79	Dear Ukrainians, dear Ukrainian people, honourable deputies! I want to thank you for the trust you gave me today. I want to say that this position for me is not a reward, it is a great responsibility. I want to tell all the Ukrainians what I promise -- one huge job, transparency in the work of the National Bank and self-devotion in order to be absolutely able to say today that Ukraine is a big market, that Ukraine is an honest people, that Ukraine is an investment site, that Ukraine will be proud to keep funds in our banks. And third, last. Tomorrow afternoon, I will ask you personally to report on the situation in our markets today and the situation in our banks today. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-24-m0.u80	Heroic glory! Thank you, Stepan Ivanovich. Do you have a question for Stepan Ivanovich? No, it's not. Stepan Ivanovich, thank you. I'm asking you not to waste your time, but I'm going to have a few more votes, and I'm going to get to work. Please, Victor Mikhailovich Pinzenic asks for a line. Now, my friends, we have another responsible vote. Even two.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-24-m0.u81	Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! I would suggest that the Supreme Council assign a new head of the National Bank of Ukraine today to contact the International Monetary Fund; invite the International Monetary Fund Mission to negotiate financial support for Ukraine. At the same time, start negotiations with the countries of the European Union, the United States and other countries to support the reform programme in Ukraine. This includes the head of the National Bank. I would ask that we give him such a protocol assignment.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-24-m0.u82	Thank you, Victor Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, a very brief announcement. Guys, I'll let you know. I'd like to ask the attorney-general of the Attorney-General, Oleg Igorevich Nenetzki. Is he in the hall? Please provide further information on the release of Pavlichenko, because football fans have approached the Supreme Council and are asked to comment on this pain not only for them but for all defenders. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-24-m0.u83	In the case of the Pavluchenkos, a sentence has already been handed down by the court. I've been given instructions, and at this time, the Attorney General's Department's staff have been deposing Pauluchenko's case and studying the possibility of releasing them from custody. I gave instructions that they should be as quick as possible to find ways to free them from the watch. And I think as soon as the right decision is made. These people are going to be released from below. This time, I think, will be today or tomorrow at the latest.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-24-m0.u84	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have some very important personnel matters to take with you, including the day-to-day draft of the Decision on the Liberation of the Jacobine of the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service (Decision No. 4246). Dear colleagues, we need to make a decision on the personnel issue, it's very important, because, on the one hand, separatism raises the head, on the other hand, we need to work very professionally and effectively towards protecting Ukraine's national security. Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote and support the proposal to include this order in the agenda (Decision No. 4246). Please vote. [[17:36:09]] For 327 Decision taken. The factions, please. I'll announce the text of the ruling. Order of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the release of Alexander Yakimenko from office of Head of the Ukrainian Security Service. According to paragraph 12.1 of part one of article 85 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine decides to release James Alexander Grigorovich from office as Head of the Ukrainian Security Service. This decision takes effect from the moment it is adopted. Dear colleagues, there is a proposal to vote without discussing this decision as a basis and as a whole. No objections? I won't. Please vote. Please turn on the "Race" system. 4246 is the number of the order. [[17:37:12]] For 346 Decision taken. Respectful colleagues, considering the danger that exists today, are moved to make a decision regarding the appointment of Valentin Nastawaychenka as Head of the Ukrainian Security Service. [[Applause]] Please. This is 4245. Please include this order in the agenda. Vote please, Your Honor. [[17:38:02]] For 321 Decision taken. [[Applause]] You guys are welcome back early. We're going to have to take the decision. Dear colleagues, I will announce the content of this decree. Corresponding to the point. Dear colleagues, the only nuance here, I'd like the lawyers to comment here. I'd like to go to our lawyers and work on this project, because in the project that I've been given, the Supreme Council is assigning. As far as I can remember, the Supreme Council agrees to be appointed. Assigns. That's what he's up to. Yes, in connection with the return of the Constitution. Dear colleagues, I ask you to vote on the Supreme Council's decree on the appointment of Valentin Navejchenka as Head of the Security Service, the content of which is as follows. "According to paragraph 12.1 of the first part of article 85 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine decides to appoint Mr. Nastavajenko Valentina Alexandrovich as Head of the Ukrainian Security Service. This decision takes effect from the moment it is adopted." The right draft of the decree, with your authority, I have brought it to the Supreme Council. Dear colleagues, no questions about the content of the decision? I won't. There's an offer, Valentin Aleksandrovitch, go to the rostrum, ask that you not all know you in person. Please. He's asking the Party of the Regions to have everyone we're assigning in the rostrum. I don't object to this position. Please, may we vote, Your Honor? We can. Dear colleagues, I ask you to vote in favour of Decree No.4245, which I have just announced. Please turn on the "Race" system. [[17:40:21]] For 333 Decision taken. [[Applause]] Valentin Aleksandrovich, you can now go to the rostrum and say a few words to the Supreme Council and the entire Ukrainian people. Please, Valentin. For the protocol, I repeat that we have made a decision in accordance with section 12.1 of the first article of the Constitution of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-24-m0.u85	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs, dear citizens of Ukraine! I would like all of us to calm down and understand the most important thing that I have seen in the last three years as the Authorized Supreme Council and all the people's deputies what is happening in our country. Most importantly, we have to stop the two key threats of ours, all of our threats to all of Ukraine's citizens. First. Stop anything that threatens the safety of people, people, children in every city, and in every part of our country. The second key national threat is the balance and uncoordinatedness of the entire law enforcement system, which, unfortunately, has so far been broken down and has not yet been restored to the rule of law. That's what I'm going to report to every national MP, that's what I'm going to report to the citizens of Ukraine. Thank you for your confidence, I promise you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-24-m0.u86	Dear National Deputies! I'll give you my word. According to article 85, paragraph 25, of the first article, of the Constitution of Ukraine, it is proposed that the appointment of Knaczyk Oleg Igorwich as Attorney -General of Ukraine should be granted in view of the fact that the Supreme Council has relieved Henprocuror Pshonka of her position. No objection, Your Honor, is it Decree 4253 to include it in the agenda? There's no objection. Ladies and gentlemen, I request the inclusion of Order 4253 in the order of the day. Please vote. [[17:43:04]] For 315 Decision taken. Dear National Deputies! A proposal without discussion to vote on this decision. There's no objection. I'll read its contents. "According to paragraph 25 of the first part of article 85 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Supreme Council decides: to grant approval for the appointment of Mr. Igorevich as the Acting Prosecutor of Ukraine. This decision takes effect from the moment it is adopted." Dear colleagues, there is a proposal to vote on it. We've heard from this rostrum twice today. I'm putting a vote on this. Please make up your mind to the Supreme Council. Order No. 4253. Turn on the "Race" system. [[17:44:01]] For 312 Decision taken. Hello. The factions, please. Oleg Igorovich, a few words. Please. Dear colleagues, I see a few deputies holding hands, I'll give you my word.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-24-m0.u87	Dear colleagues, frankly, this was an unexpected decision for me today. But I am grateful to all for the fact that even without asking me, I was entrusted with such an important question, fulfilling such important responsibilities. I will do my utmost to make sure that in Ukraine there is really legality, that there is justice, that there is justice, and that all those guilty are really drawn to criminal responsibility, and that there is never any innocent person who can falsify them and bring them to justice. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-24-m0.u88	Welcome. I'm asking you to turn on the microphone of the People's Deputy Suškević.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-24-m0.u89	Thank you, Alexander Valentinovich. Dear colleagues, Reverend Alexander Valentinovich, I have worked with the Ministry of Social Policy for many years, but I have not seen the more corrupt ministry of the Ministry of the Royal Natalia. Corruption is total and terrible, corruption has reached the point where the minister has tried to destroy the pension system of Ukraine in general. There was an attempt to adopt on December 25, a draft decree granting the Pension Fund the right to direct insurance costs to purchase bonds. I now request to vote on the exemption from the duties of the Minister of Social Policy of the Kingdom, Decree No. 4222. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-24-m0.u90	Dear colleagues, how does the Supreme Council respond to this proposal? Put it to a vote? Put it on. Dear colleagues, number 4222. Let's put it in the order of the day of our meeting. Please vote. [[17:47:02]] For 299 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I will announce the content of this decree on the release of the Royal Natalia Jurijovna from the duties of the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine. "According to paragraph 12 of the first part of article 85 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Supreme Council decides: to relieve Royal Natal Juryovna of her duties as Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, which results in her being removed from office. This decision takes effect from the moment it is adopted." Can we vote without discussion? Yes. I'm putting regulation 4222 to the vote. Please make up your mind. [[17:47:50]] For 319 Decision taken. Turn on Hanna Herman's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-24-m0.u91	Dear colleagues, I think some things in this room are doing really well today. The Queen's release is one of them, the appointment of the Head of the House of Deputies, too. So not everything is so bad that the new authority does.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-24-m0.u92	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I would like to give you the floor by including the microphone, the national deputy of Kirilenka. Sure, I'll give it to you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-24-m0.u93	Viacheslav Kirilenko. Dear colleagues, I have put forward a draft Decree 4219 on the suspension of the Minister of Culture of Novotak Leonid Mihajlovich in connection with his unsatisfying duties. They've been searching all over Kiev for four days, they can't find it. Neither he comes to work nor is there any substitutes in this regard able to carry out their duties. So I ask you to put this Order into the agenda and put it to a vote on the basis both in general and without discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-24-m0.u94	Dear colleagues, I have just received Mr. Novohatka's application to accept his resignation. I'd like to consult Mr. Kirilenko's head of profile committee. Still, the draft decision you gave, or do you still agree to resign? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-24-m0.u95	Well, you know, before that, he was searched for five days, and no one could find him with light. And now I feel that I have to be responsible for my actions. And that's why me and the public activists and the profile committee are insisting on a vote on a stay order.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-24-m0.u96	Yes, once again, please, Mr. Viacheslave, you are the one who insists on your decision. Is that what I'm saying? Yes. Dear colleagues, may I include her in the agenda? Right after that, I'll give Mrs. Heratchenko my word, absolutely. Dear colleagues, please vote for the inclusion of Decree 4252 in the agenda of the Supreme Council. Please vote. [[17:50:37]] For 278 Decision taken. Adam Ivanovich, did you wish to comment on this question? No, it's not. Dear colleagues, I will then read out, with your permission, the Order on the release of Novohatek Leonid Mikhailovich from the duties of the Minister of Culture as a result of his removal from office. This decision takes effect from the moment it is adopted. This is done in accordance with article 85, paragraph 12, of the Constitution. Dear colleagues, may I rule on the vote? I can. Dear colleagues, I ask you to determine how to vote and to adopt Supreme Council Resolution 4219 as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[17:51:37]] For 288 Decision taken. The factions, please. Dear colleagues, I see a few hands up. I will now give the floor to the People's Deputy Heratchenko. Then to the national deputy of Polochaninov and to the national deputy of Martinyuk. Please turn on Heratchenko's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-24-m0.u97	Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you that we agreed to work solely on a daily basis yesterday. Today the order of the day is exhausted. And we suggest closing the session to focus on forming a coalition. Also, to impose an official same requirement against opposition to the demands of those who stand on Maidan and that the next coalition cannot have MPs who were involved in bloody events in Ukraine (this is important, we must remember). And appeal to the Attorney General. Dear colleague, there are these national deputies who were with the "community" Yanukovic in Kharkiv. We ask you to question these national MPs on where Janukovic's "communities" may be, which is announced in search of him, because he must be found and brought to court in order to be responsible for what he did in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-24-m0.u98	Please turn on the microphone of the People’s Deputy Polochaninov.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-24-m0.u99	Alexander Valentinovich, distinguished colleagues! I realize that this question is not as important as the distribution of posts, but it should be a matter of principle for us if we are consistent. BBC Ukraine journalists yesterday recorded in the vote for Decree 4175 the facts of a nonpersonal vote. So I suggest you put 4,175 back in the agenda today and vote on this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-24-m0.u100	Once again, I'm sorry. Number of rulings, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-24-m0.u101	4175.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-24-m0.u102	Declare the content of this decree.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-24-m0.u103	It's a termination order. from the responsibility of the minister of education and science.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-24-m0.u104	I see. Dear colleagues! I'm addressing all the national MPs. In accordance with the Constitution, we vote on our own; it's a matter of principle. I ask that, in view of the fact that there was a record of a vote in favour of another MP, this ruling be re-voted. I put to the vote a return to this issue in order to reconsider this decision. Please vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] No return. Let's put her to the vote right now. Dear colleagues, I ask then to confirm by vote the decision to adopt Decree No.4175 on the dismissal of the Acting Minister of Science and Education of the D.V. Tobacco. Please, Decree No.4174. Please identify yourself by voting, taking it as a basis and as a whole. Vote. Please vote in person. [[17:55:04]] For 249 Decision taken. On the fritz, please. The word is given to the national deputy Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-24-m0.u105	Thank you. Martinyuk, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. Well, I hope we stop. Although we're just wasting our time. All the ministers are released. Rather, you form the Cabinet of Ministers, rather take responsibility for the mess that is now in the state. That's the first one. The other one. I wish, Alexander Valentine's Day, that we would certainly be doing this now, unfortunately, unreal, but at least for tomorrow we put those bills that we talked about on the Conciliation Council today. First of all, we have a unique opportunity today or tomorrow to consider and abolish both pension and medical reform. The day after tomorrow, we won't have any of those options. And one more thing, most importantly. Now we've got the muscle. We have now agreed to appoint the Attorney General. I hope that the president will sign the decree that he will become the Attorney General. Let's do it anyway. And the Attorney General says that criminal cases of monumental violations are closed. It's a law, change the law, then release. And do not destroy the monuments, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-24-m0.u106	Thanks for the offer. Dear colleagues, I wanted us to finish our work today, but there is another issue that we need to vote on. This applies to the issue of political prisoners. The point is that a speech commissioned by the Attorney-General, and now by the Attorney-General, has been heard outside Parliament. But people want a decision. There are plenty of people in Parliament. They're enough, let's say, tense. And there's an offer to adopt a draft decision that we have developed, and they're going to give it to me now. Draft decision 4202. I ask the author of Oleg Lášk to comment on this project.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-24-m0.u107	Dear citizens of Ukraine, who are now under the walls of the Supreme Council. I ask you all to stop, the Supreme Council today is the only legitimate body in Ukraine. We must allow Parliament to work to overcome the negative effects of the rule of dictator Yanukovic. As for the draft decree 4202, it is the release of political prisoners of the Yanukovic regime. After all, this regime imprisoned our brothers not only during the revolution but before that. Therefore, I am asking Parliament to restore justice in support of the 4202 draft of Decree No. 4202, which has been commissioned by the Attorney General to release and list these prisoners. Please support the draft decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-24-m0.u108	I'd like to ask Oleg Valeriyovich, you have this project to do. I'm asking you, your honor, a few speeches on this issue. As long as they bring us this project so we can announce it. Please, is this a question that you would like to make? Andrew Parubius, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-24-m0.u109	Ladies and gentlemen, distinguished Ukrainians! We need to know that the previous regime has been terrorizing not only in recent months, but for many years. In their time, a number of activists, the boys whose faults were only because they loved Ukraine and fought for Ukraine, among them, were also Pavlicians, and the fanatic movement had long demanded their immediate release. These people found themselves behind grenades solely in the grip of power and solely because they behaved honestly and with dignity. This is about the boys from Kharkiv and Vasilkova. So I'm asking you very much now that Ukraine has changed these guys are behind bars. We must immediately vote on this decision so that our patriots, our Pavlicians and others, can be at liberty near their parents, near their families. The law provides, not for family, but for the principle of liberation. Thank you for your attention. And I'm asking you to back me up.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-24-m0.u110	Dear colleagues, there is an offer to include this project in the agenda. I'm asking you to give Oleg the floor to Tegnibok.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-24-m0.u111	Dear Society, first of all, I address those people who are now under the walls of Parliament. The Ukrainian Supreme Council today represents our common interests, the interests of the Ukrainian people. And it is we who can now resolve the sinister and urgent issues that lie before us. You've seen the Attorney General report today that the newly released so-called Vasilk terrorists. These patriot boys are already on the loose. And now we're going to do the same thing with innocently arrested boys -- the father and son of the Pavlíčniki -- who are being held by so many Ukrainian patriots and have been protesting for many months all over Ukraine. The honourable Parliament, we need to listen to the people's opinion, especially that it is legitimate and that we should immediately vote. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-24-m0.u112	Dear colleagues, please, the microphone of the People's Deputy Karpuntsov.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-24-m0.u113	Dear colleagues, brothers, I was present yesterday during Smaliya's dismissal procedure -- that's also a significant thing, you know. I'd like to point out that the procedure was rather long, although the prosecution filed at 11 o'clock. Only at 4 o'clock were able to set up a video conference with the court. The WHO administration has fully contributed to the enforcement of the law, that is, there was no tension. Please make sure that all legal procedures are followed and that you do not make the most of it. The WHO administration is doing everything in accordance with the law to ensure that all innocents are released, but we are watching to see that there are timely videoconferences and judges making judicial decisions. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-24-m0.u114	Dear colleagues, there's an offer, let's give the national deputy Shufric and we'll vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-24-m0.u115	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Dear colleagues, really, we've been sore to have this conflict finally resolved. Regrettably, in the last few months, it has been impossible to resolve this crazy mistake and the abuse of it, even though the public, those who support national football, have repeatedly asked for the proper response and release of the father and son. Today we have this vote to put an end to the possibility of political prisoners in our country. I am convinced that today's vote will testify to what we say no and prevent any possibility and desire to actually destroy people for the sake of a particular person or group of persons. Humans are to be held accountable solely for crimes committed, and counting, using grounds and substitutions, must be unacceptable. The faction of the regions supports this decision, and I am absolutely convinced that the football world, and today there are several football clubs that will be presented, will be relieved, and we hope that in the next few hours the family will be free and hugged with their families and loved ones. Please put to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-24-m0.u116	Dear colleagues, it is suggested that the daily Order (4202) on the release of political prisoners, including the release of Dmitr and Sergius Pavlíčniki, be included in the agenda. Please enter into the agenda, please vote. [[18:04:33]] For 310 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, there is a proposal to vote on this decision without discussion. No objections? There's no objection. A draft Decree (4202) on the release of political prisoners is being introduced. Please accept this decision as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[18:05:07]] For 316 Decision taken. Call in the factions, please. Dear colleagues, we have worked very effectively today. Responsible important decisions were made. We're going to have to work at night, first of all, faction leaders, leaders of MP groups, in order to get into the formation of a government of national trust, a government of the new coalition. That's why I'm announcing a recess in our session until 10:00 a.m. tomorrow. Thank you. Good-bye.
