ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-16-m0.u1	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs! Please take your seats, prepare for the vote. Traditionally, while the deputies sit down, I would like to inform you that today is the birthday of National Deputy Fursin John Hennadiovich. Please welcome him. [[Applause]] Please turn on the "Race" system. Please register. There were 336 national deputies registered in the hall. The morning meeting of the Supreme Council is open. Dear colleagues! We have a historic event to take place today in the Supreme Council: at 12:30 a.m., we will start with you to consider a strategic issue for our country: the ratification of the Association Agreement with the European Union. We'll be working with you on the live broadcast of Ukraine's main television channels. At 13 o'clock we're going to have a direct integration with the European Parliament, with which we plan to ratify the Agreement in sync. But the first part of our meeting on an agreement that took place in the President's Administration, where the leaders of the MPs and factions met with the President, we need to consider issues that are very important -- the issue of our country's security, the issue of our country's protection, the issues on which further developments in the east of Ukraine depend. In order to provide objective information to the General Staff of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, the President of Ukraine, who also wishes to participate in these matters, a proposal is made in accordance with article 84 of the Constitution and article 4 of the Ukrainian Rules of Procedure Act, the proposal to hold this part of the morning session in the closed plenary. [[B in m in s a l in]] My colleagues, once again, this is the position that was agreed upon yesterday at the faction leaders' meeting. Questions to be reported by the Chief of Staff of the General Staff, questions to be reported by the President of Ukraine, Peter Poroshenko. [[B in m in s a l in]] So, dear fellows, let's not sing in chorus, but there's a proposal to support the proposal corresponding to the holding of the 10th to 12.30th closed plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please, Your Honor, determine how to vote. Please vote. For 121 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Parenthood – 14, Party of Regions – 33, Impact – 29, Economic Development – 28, Peace and Stability – 1, Sovereign European Ukraine – 4, Freedom – 0, non-fractional – 12. Dear colleagues, in view of the fact that we need to identify ourselves with the faction leaders regarding the relevance of the report of the Chief of General Staff, which was scheduled to be closed, I announce a 15 - minute recess and invite the leaders of the MPs and factions to my office.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-16-m0.u2	Please take your seats. The Supreme Council continues its work. We have very responsible decisions, and I ask the secretariat to make several announcements so that all the national MPs can come to the hall and prepare for the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-16-m0.u3	I can't hear you, Alexander Rafkatovich. Dear colleagues, please don't make any remarks that didn't come forward. They won't be able to press the button. Please, please. Colleagues, take your seats. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, I'm asking the "North European Ukraine" faction to invite Mr. Jeremeyev to the hall, and they are now (I know) meeting with the President. Please contact this faction, because every voice is important to us right now. No, you don't have to push, you need everyone to vote for themselves. Please invite the Jeremiah faction to the hall. Ruslan Petrovich, work on what they will then agree with the President after the work of the Supreme Council has been completed. Dear colleagues, while the MPs are coming, I'll brief you on the procedure for dealing with the matter at 12:30. It's going to be a little bit out of the ordinary, because we're going to be working in a limited time format. That's why three minutes -- the foreign minister will speak, inform us about the treaty that we need to ratify, and then two minutes later, the head of the committee and the heads of the parliamentary groups and factions. Then there will be an opportunity, I hope, to speak in three minutes to the Prime Minister and a direct inclusion with the European Parliament, where Mr Schultz will address us. The President of Ukraine, Peter Poroshenko, will address the European Parliament. And about 13:06-13:08, we're going to have to synchronize, we're going to have to vote in sync. So the honourable colleagues, the request is huge as soon as we have a ratification regime, so that we don't overemphasize the fact that someone hasn't come forward or someone wants to say something more. I cannot give my word, so I ask that we conduct ourselves well by working effectively. Please, can the Secretariat tell me something about the Jeremiah faction? Well, the whole Parliament's waiting, well, that's probably wrong. Now, now they're on approach. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, I very much ask, well, really very serious questions. One minute is good. We're not just waiting for them, we're also waiting for the President, who personally wanted to speak in case we can provide a regime to discuss the issue of conducting an anti-terrorism operation so that both the President and the Chief of General Staff can speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-16-m0.u4	Let's vote now, dear fellows. For the time being, unscrew the right hand so that there is no problem with clicking the right button. That's why. We're waiting for Jeremiah, first of all, with his faction, you know? [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, please. I want to say again, I've already invited them to the hall. They said they were already rising. [[B in m in s a l in]] We'll invite everyone right now. Colleagues, calm down, please! Calm down. As soon as we get started, I'll have Vitaly Volodymyrovich sit down. On the rostrum. [[Applause]] Yes, dear fellows, I see our national MPs are coming in, which we have been looking forward to. Please, dear fellows, come into the hall a little more quickly. Let's get operational! Because everyone's waiting for you. Dear colleagues, please take your seats. I'm informing you of how the Conciliation Council took place. During the Conciliation Council, Peter Alexiyovich Poroshenko, president of Ukraine, took part in our work. We're very active. I'd even say we were talking about problems impulsively. The problems we discussed were the conduct of an anti-terror operation, problems and prospects for a peaceful settlement of the conflict, and faction leaders exchanged their positions. And we have come out, honourable colleagues, to allow them, nevertheless, to contact the Supreme Council, to inform the Supreme Council of the objective situation in our country's East, which has taken place in Ukrainian-Russian relations. Both the President and the Commander - in - Chief are addressing the need for an objective conversation to take place in a closed regime. So, your honorary colleagues, according to the Conciliation Council, I'm once again proposing to review the issues raised by the President and to hold a part of our plenary meeting, that is, within 12 hours. So let's say, before we start looking at the ratification of European integration in a closed mode. Please, fellow Members, I ask all deputies to take their seats. Andrey Volodymyrovich, I'm asking you to take your seats. And please, Your Honor, now support the proposal to conduct part of our closed-mode plenary work before the launch of the review of the ratification of the Association Agreement. Please. Please, Your Honor, support the proposal discussed at the Conciliation Council by voting. Please support the closed-mode plenary. Please. For 265. Decision taken. Thank you. The factions, please. Parenthood – 32, Party of Regions – 60, 37 – Impact, 37 – Economic Development, 32 – Sovereign European Ukraine – 25 – Freedom – 0, non-fractional – 42.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-16-m0.u5	Colleagues, please invite all national deputies to the session room. I ask the secretariat to invite the Prime Minister, the President of Ukraine, members of the government. Please, dear fellows, sit in your workplace, and prepare for work. Dear colleagues, please, dear colleagues, sit down. Dear national MPs, distinguished guests, representatives of the media! We're continuing the work of the Supreme Council, and now, as I've been informed, we can be directly watched by Ukrainian citizens through not only the "Council" channel, but also our main UT-1 channel. Dear colleagues, please calm down and take your seats. Without exaggeration, I would like to stress that now we're going to start a very simple consideration of the issue -- it's actually a historical event. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, please sit down and calm down. Please invite the President of Ukraine and the Prime Minister of Ukraine to the Chamber. Dear colleagues, President of Ukraine Peter Prashenko, Prime Minister of Ukraine Arsenij Yatsenuk. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Members of the government, honourable national MPs, dear Ukrainian citizens, now the question that we will consider, without exaggeration, will change the history of Ukraine. Ukraine and its people deserved, including the blood of the people, especially in the barricades of the Dignity Revolution, on the Ukrainian playgrounds of peaceful life in a common European home. For the first time in the history of our continent, millions of people have fought to sacrifice their lives for the dream of European unity, for the right to live in a European community that proclaims the main values: personality, the rule of law, democracy, peace and stability. This right of Ukraine, with arms in hand, protects against Kremlin aggressors in the east of the country. The Alliance Agreement between Ukraine and the European Union offers a unique opportunity to realize this right. Its ratification is the first major step towards comprehensive reform of the country by European standards and values. Today, together with the European Parliament, we vote in favour of ratifying the Association Agreement between Ukraine and the European Union. I am sure that the Supreme Council of Ukraine, as the sole body of legislative authority that embodies the will of its electorate, will generally ratify this historic covenant by a majority of votes. That is how Ukraine, as a European state that shares the common values of democracy and the rule of law, stresses its sovereign choice for future membership in the European Union. I propose a statement by the Supreme Council of Ukraine concerning the intention of joining the European Union to vote immediately after the ratification of the Association Agreement. Today, Ukraine’s choice of the European future depends on our will. This choice is decisive and final, and no one will force our country to turn from this path. Dear colleagues! I invite you to the Parliamentary Chamber of Foreign Ministers of Ukraine Klimkina Pavel Anatoliyovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-16-m0.u6	Mr. President! Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! Ladies and gentlemen! I propose a bill on the ratification of the Association Agreement between Ukraine and the European Union for your consideration. Never before in the recent history of Ukraine, nor in the history of the European Union, has there been a document of an association paid at such an expensive price. And a document that would have such a profound impact on the further development of all of Europe. Today, the Ukrainian nation is taking a step forward. I had the honour, indeed, to accompany this document from the first expert negotiations, and I want to thank all the politicians, diplomats and experts, absolutely all those who have put part of their work into this document, in the end, part of themselves. The agreement is a model of reforms that are needed by Ukraine and will be implemented with the European Union. These will be reforms in terms of European content, in terms of European mentality and in the European model, in the light of the sacrifices made under the Treaty, this is more than a text -- a life plan for all generations of Ukrainians who believe in this state and who believe in Ukraine's future as a member of the European Union. So Europe for Ukraine is a movement forward, it's our movement towards the future. The post-Variance space remains behind, it's part of our past, and Europe is our future. The future of the values for which we stand ready to fight, a society of equal opportunity, a just political and legal system and a future economy. This Treaty has given us all the Ukrainian people as their mandate and to express their desire for the best. Please support this Agreement. Glory to Ukraine! () [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-16-m0.u7	Dear colleagues, the word is given to the Head of the Supreme Council Committee on European Integration, Gregory Nemiri. And I'm asking while Gregory goes to the parliamentary rostrum, to sign up for the factions for the performance. Please turn on the " Rada" system to record. Please, Gregory Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-16-m0.u8	Dear colleagues! This morning, the Committee on European Integration discussed the issue of the Act on the Ratification of the Association Agreement. And he unanimously decided to recommend this law to the Supreme Council, the Ukrainian Parliament, as a whole. I would like to point out that by making this decision today – I am sure that we will make this responsible decision – we should refrain from excessive pomp, from excessive praise and from excessive things that I think would be meaningful and completely appropriate if we had peace in Ukraine. Unfortunately, we're going to war. And if we want this Agreement not to become another historically lost opportunity, but actually used not only a tool to bring Ukraine closer to the European Union, but a step towards future membership, we have to say things and call them our names. If this agreement is a civil choice of Ukraine, and I am convinced that it is such a civil choice, it is important to take responsibility from the very beginning. What does that mean? It means that, given the situation that Ukraine is facing, we can't, we don't have the right to allow another country, especially Russia, to have a veto on our civil choice in any form, it wouldn't look like. That is why, by ratifying this Agreement in sync with the European Parliament today, because we know that five countries members of the European Union have ratified it and that Georgia and Moldova have ratified their agreement, we need to be aware of our own responsibility. You can't put a civil choice on pause, you can't have a civilian.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-16-m0.u9	Thank you. Yes, please, dear colleagues, I would like to remind you that we have a very strict schedule because we work on live air. Please, the word is now given to the head of the "Freedom" faction of Oleg Tegnibok. And I ask all other colleagues to draw to the rostrum, who will be next to speak, so that we lose time so that everyone will be able to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-16-m0.u10	Oleg Tuggnibok, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Honorable Society, Brothers and Sisters, Ukrainians! Today, the Ukrainian Parliament is approaching the adoption of a historic decision that formalizes the civilisational European choice of the Ukrainian people and determines the future decade of development of Ukraine. This is the will of the Ukrainian people, confirmed by the Dignity Revolution, the heroism of the Heavenly 100 and our hero soldiers, who oppose Moscow's aggression on Donbas. Since the signing of the Freedom Agreement, she has supported it as soon as possible by Parliament, realizing that putting this decision on the hand of exclusively imperial Moscow, which is doing everything possible to block Ukrainian Euro-integration. We have been, and are strongly opposed to any consultation on the Association Agreement with Moscow, especially at a time when Putin is direct military aggression against our state and killing our citizens. The ratification of the Association Agreement between Ukraine and the European Union is an important step towards the final release of Ukraine from Moscow's economic and political path, the destruction of corruption and effective state administration, the elimination of monopolies and the competitive economy, the competitiveness of Ukrainian producers, the modernisation of all spheres of life of the state and society, the improvement of the quality of life of Ukrainians to European standards, the visa-free regime for Ukrainians in EU travel. The implementation of this agreement will in the short run contribute to the flow of foreign direct investment into the Ukrainian economy, foresees the adaptation by Ukraine of European regulatory legislation in various areas of economic and social relations. Ukraine's task is to reach a level of development where further movement towards EU membership will be transformed from a far-reaching perspective and a question of political relevance. We Ukrainians are a European nation. And we will surely win! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-16-m0.u11	Anatoly Kinach, from the Economic Development Group, please. I've asked you, Your Honor, to step up to the front of the line so that they can speak immediately.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-16-m0.u12	Dear National Deputies! Respectable compatriots! Today in the Ukrainian Parliament, without exaggeration, a historic event. I remember very well the day we declared the status of the independent state of Ukraine in this room. And today we have a chance to take a step to fill Ukraine's sovereignty, Ukraine's independence with real meaning: strengthening European international standards on Ukrainian land, the rule of law, the quality of life of citizens, equal competition, freedom of speech. But the ratification of the Association Agreement between Ukraine and the European Union should not be a miracle. This is also a sign of our responsibility, which we have before us is very responsible, including for future generations, the Ukrainian homework. It is our will, our mind, our resources that must be directed towards Ukraine to develop irreversibly as a powerful competitive European state capable of modern methods throughout the perimeter, based on the support of its international partners, to protect its national, economic and political interests. We look forward to adopting the terms of the National Adaptation Programme of Ukraine, our right, our economy under the terms of the Association Agreement with the European Union, including the terms of free trade. And this can only be achieved on the basis of a consolidated branch of power, based on the fact that this is our strategic national priority. The Economic Development Union supports the ratification of the Ukraine-EU Agreement and calls for the unification of all around national interests. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-16-m0.u13	Thank you. From the MP's Peace and Stability Group, Opanaschenko. I asked, Your Honor, please approach the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-16-m0.u14	Dear colleagues! Today, indeed, is a very important day for our Ukraine. We are all united around the idea of Euro-integration, and right now, we must vote and support all the hard work that has been done. All the expectations of our citizens are also aimed at European integration. This is the policy that puts a person above anything else in the state. It's a policy where there's no corruption. It's a policy of high standards as the very life of our Ukrainian citizens. But I would also like to thank Parliament for what has been voted on earlier. Because what Euro-integration can be talked about if there is no peace in our country. So those decisions that have been made are very important decisions for our country. It is Ukraine that wants peace. And we politicians should, just as our soldiers on the front line are defending weapons in our hands, we have to do all our professional skills to defend precisely diplomatic weapons by means of agreements. Unfortunately, those against it can go and tell their voters that they are not capable of pursuing a policy of peace and diplomacy. So I urge you to support this very important Agreement and give our young, our children a chance to live in a European country with high standards of quality of life and European values. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-16-m0.u15	It's from the strike faction, National Deputy Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-16-m0.u16	Dear colleagues! You and I have come up with a really great honor and a historic mission to ratify today's Association Agreement, on which many Ukrainian diplomats, politicians, government officials worked six dramatic years. An extremely heavy price, when Ukraine was dragged to a completely different direction, we were able to endure. I think it would be right if we would remember, after a moment of silence, the memory of all those who actually paid with their lives so that you and I could ratify the Association Agreement today. But we have a huge task ahead of us: the first is to adopt a national plan for the implementation of this Agreement. The other one. Remember that after we have voted, no point can be changed. This means that it will take effect on November 1, 2014 and cannot be speculated here. Secondly, our goods are already entering European markets without customs and exports of Ukrainian goods to EU countries have increased by 15 per cent in the last year. Third. The European side has taken an unprecedented step and they will pay, European producers, for their goods. This money, which is 300 to 500 (at various estimates) millions of euros each month will go to defend our army, to strengthen our resilience. Time plays Ukraine. It is only important that we be able to make the right use of this time: to carry out appropriate reforms, to fight corruption and to hold such fair elections that there is no representative of the Fifth Column in the next Parliament, but only the pro-European forces that will be able to bring Ukraine to full membership in the European Union within 10 years. And the last. Although the visa-free regime is not part of this Agreement, we must do everything we can to ensure that Ukrainian citizens get a visa-free regime as soon as possible so that the borders between us and the European Union fall. Glory be to Ukraine and go to the European Union together! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-16-m0.u17	Thank you. People's Deputy Mosheński, please. He gives the word to the people’s representative Jeremiah.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-16-m0.u18	Dear Mr. President! Head! People's deputies! Dear Ukrainian people! 23 years ago, Ukraine gained independence, but 23 years ago we did not decide that our course was Europe. For 23 years in a row, we have been carrying the bud of the Soviet Union. And finally, when the Ukrainian people said today that our choice is Europe, we won the war, we got Midan. But Maidan also stood up and young people born in 23 years in an independent Ukraine proved that we are a European country. We're making a historic decision with you today. Many, thousands of our young people who are protecting Ukraine today from the aggressors will not see this decision, but they have given their lives so that young people can live in another country, so that children who are studying at school today can live in another country. We make many difficult decisions today, but we do it for the children so that they can learn in the right colleges so that they can see the right courts. Today, this is the first step that determines our trajectory where the country is going to go. And today, first of all, I am addressing the leaders of the state: to the President, to the Chief of the Supreme Council, to the Prime Minister, to the National Deputies and to the National Deputies, don't let up those people who were protecting Midan, don't let up those people who are giving up their lives today. We must do our utmost to make Ukraine a European Ukraine once and for all. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-16-m0.u19	National MP Tomenko, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-16-m0.u20	Nikolai, this is a difficult time. When we had a discussion about what we were going to do with signing the treaty association, I said from this rostrum that we had a very simple choice: if we don't want to learn, they're going to take us into the army. And then, more than six months ago, there were a lot of people who were sniggering, because it was thought to be a joke that social networks thought we'd make a courageous deal with Russia and our brothers would teach us how to live in a secret union. After six months of the death of our boys, the death of our young and older people, this imaginary anecdotic situation in social networks is not just tragic, it becomes a sign: we didn't want to learn, we went to serve in the army, not the army, but to take Russia into the army. Today we have to correct the mistakes that have been made, and not all those people today and tomorrow, not necessarily during the elections, I think we need to understand that such a tragic mistake that the previous authorities have made, we need to correct not one year, but for decades. And the tragedy of our history is that we have historically protected Europe. Protected from various nomads, from various games, then from Bolsheviks, then from fascists. Today is the time for Europe to start protecting us. And we must now make it clear that Europe’s responsibility today is to protect, including us, because we have protected it for centuries. And signing this Agreement isn't really a big holiday that we have to celebrate, as it always is, is a job that we should start tomorrow. Because living in Europe means eliminating corruption, which means working as in Europe, that means restoring European values and understanding that it is up to everyone. So let us, as the classics say, stand in Ukraine with our feet and head in Europe. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-16-m0.u21	Kolesnikov National Deputy, Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-16-m0.u22	Dear Mr. President! Dear colleagues! Ladies and gentlemen! The faction of the Regions has decided to support today's ratification of the Association Agreement with the European Union. The faction of the Regions also welcomes Mr. Fulle's initiative to harmonise, synchronize Ukraine's relations with all our partners today and tomorrow. The faction of the Regions also wishes to address all Ukrainian partners today and tomorrow, saying that 60 years ago, even more, was spoken by Secretary-General of the United States of America George Marshall, which was on June 5, 1947, in Harvard, that Europe was worn out. At first glance, the United States is more likely to sell goods and services to Europe, but it is destroyed and there is nothing for Europeans to pay for these goods and services. Therefore, the United States must do more pragmaticly and help Europe for many years simply, otherwise there is a threat to democracy and freedom. I would like first of all to tell our partners that in Ukraine the situation is similar to that of the Second World War in Europe. We therefore support the association, and we ask the Cabinet of Ministers to achieve four degrees of freedom for Ukraine: goods, services, labour and capital. Let go not in one year, but in the whole world. Ukraine does not end within our geographical boundaries. Ukraine ends where its economic interests end and the interests of the Ukrainian people end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-16-m0.u23	The word is given to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Arsenija Yatsenyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-16-m0.u24	Dear Mr. President! Mr. Head, the Ukrainian national deputies and the highly worthy Ukrainian people! Voting for today’s ratification is Ukraine’s civil choice. We're correcting a mistake that was made 350 years ago. Ukraine is Europe. And so he said, and the Ukrainian people did. Under this Agreement is the signature, primarily of all Ukraine. And it is sad that this covenant is blood - bound. But that's the choice, that's the fight and that's the pay for freedom, for democracy and for independence. Yes, now our soldiers are fighting for Ukrainian sovereignty, for Ukrainian independence and for the integrity of the Ukrainian state. The signing of the Agreement and its ratification is the first step. This is just the beginning of the great European path. Effectiveness and effectiveness depend only on us, from political will, from will to change, from will to fight, and from will to victory. The people demonstrated their desire to be in Europe and live in Europe. The responsibility of the current Supreme Council, the new Supreme Council, the government and the President, and the political elite to be elected by the Ukrainian people for the realization of the aspirations and will of the multimillion-dollar European Ukrainian State. We are now expected, not by signatures and victorious relations, but by concrete actions and results. So forward to the implementation of the agreement and to the victory of democracy, freedom and Ukraine. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-16-m0.u25	Dear colleagues, there will be a simultaneous ratification of the Association Agreement between Ukraine and the European Union, the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the European Parliament. And we should now have a direct involvement of the European Parliament. We will now have the opportunity to hear Martin Schultz, President of the European Parliament. Please turn on the live broadcast. Yeah, I don't see Europe. Dear colleagues, please now the direct city is being settled between our parliaments, and I hope that we will now hear Martin Schultz, President of the European Parliament. I'm asking you to pick up the headphones so we can hear him. As long as we see the Ukrainian Parliament, well, I hope. And we also see European. Dear colleagues, we welcome our colleagues from Europe.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-16-m0.u26	[[== sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man]] Please invite everyone to sit down. Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. Dear colleagues, please take a month. As you know, for a future vote, we have a direct bridge with the Ukrainian Parliament. And you can see our partners from the Ukrainian Parliament on your screen. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, there may be a slight delay in broadcasting. So anything we say and do here can be passed on somewhere for 30 seconds or a minute later. So there might be a little bit of a delay that can work in the opposite direction. At the end of my speech, if you want to cheer, keep in mind that there will be a delay. You'll have a good reason to applaud me for 30 seconds, ladies and gentlemen. Now let's move on to our points. Ladies and gentlemen, President Poshenko. I think, ladies and gentlemen, it would be no exaggeration to say that this is a historic moment, a moment when the European Parliament is sitting here in Strasbourg and our partners, the Ukrainian Parliament in Kiev, will ratify the Agreement between. It's an association agreement. We'll do it at the same time as agreed. It's a free self-determination and free democracy -- ratification. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, the ratification of this Agreement -- a treaty that hasn't changed since the Maydan peace demonstrations in Kiev -- has not changed, and this is very important. Who would have thought only a few months ago that a certain moment of time the borders of Europe could be moved violently. And that, in particular, after the cold war, who would have thought that there would be a need or that it would be possible to get in danger, and that someone who has more power would be in danger. The war broke out in Ukraine, Europe. And what's happening in Ukraine is killing us all. I want to take this opportunity to get us all. tell all of us that the European Parliament has always defended Ukraine's territorial integrity and sovereignty and we will continue to do so. [[Applause]] And we're going to do this so that the dreams of the people of Ukraine, the dreams that people fought for on Maidan, the demands of Ukrainian people, could go into reality, materialize. And we can accept Ukraine with the Constitution. Ukraine is a country where people's rights have been challenged, but they do, they respect it, and people are fighting for their better future. The day that this will become a reality in Ukraine will be the day when the promises of a peaceful revolution in Maidan will become a reality. I speak from most representatives of the European Parliament. We support Ukrainian people in achieving Midan's dreams. [[Applause]] And now, before we go to the vote here in the Chamber, I want to say that this is a great honor, and thanks to technology, we can vote with President Dustenk. And I want to give the floor to Mr. Dusty, who will contact us from Kiev, then we'll go to the vote. And after the vote, I'm going to sign a letter that goes to the Council, which is a formal procedure for starting a process that will complete this process. President of Ukraine Peter Poroshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-16-m0.u27	The word is given to the President of Ukraine, Peter Prashenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-16-m0.u28	Dear compatriots, worthy Ukrainians! The noble National Deputies of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! First of all, I would like to thank you for the applause and support of Ukraine that you just demonstrated. I want to say that the atmosphere now prevailing in the Supreme Council is very similar to that of 1991 when we gained independence. [[Applause]] "Who's ready to die for Europe?This is the question that scientists are asking when, in sociological research, they are exploring the impact of European identity and a significant division of the nation. It is only natural to be willing to give up your life and die for your Fatherland. But the Celestial One hundred and 872 courageous Ukrainian soldiers died not only for Ukraine, but they headed for us to take a decent place in the family of European nations. Since World War II, no nation has ever paid such a high price for being Europeans. [[Applause]] Tell me, who will now, after that, dare to close the door to Europe in front of Ukraine? [[Applause]] Who will oppose giving us the prospect of membership in the European Union, to which we are taking the first but decisive step today. Seven years, starting in 2007, from the summit of the Paris Summit of Ukraine-EU, we prepared this Agreement. I would like to start by thanking everyone who is involved in this process: diplomats, government officials, deputies, experts and, above all, citizens who have strongly supported our European course. Last fall, it seemed like everything was ready to be signed, because the whole country was determined to say, "Yes!" And no or very weak were the arguments of those who said no. But on November 29 in Vilnius, when we were all waiting for it, it didn't happen. The need for the Treaty is then and now absolutely obvious to all Ukrainian society. Then it rose. Janukovic has just tried to turn our express from the West to the East and European integration has become our Ukrainian national idea. And I am convinced that today's vote will demonstrate this. And the inner and external forces to stop our strategic progress have already experienced fiascos. On June 27, the historic agreement was signed in Brussels. And today's synchronous ratification, I'm sure, will be a holiday, not just a celebration of Ukraine, a celebration of a whole united Europe, because without Ukraine there is no united Europe. We endured this powerful pressure, we did not succumb to any blackmail. In the Covenant, I emphasize! - no parameter, no paragraph, no word, dot or comma has been changed. I will immediately sign the Ratification Act in this room today. [[Applause]] I entrust the Ukrainian Government with adopting tomorrow's implementation plan and implementing it from the first minute of the entry into force of the law. [[Applause]] Dear friends, implementation is very simple -- it's the rule of law, it's freedom of speech, it's a visa-free regime, it's a matter of investment climate, it's a question of democracy. All of this is the implementation of our agreement and we simply have no right and cannot delay. Arrangements reached in Brussels during the day allowed us to obtain even more than the Treaty provides for: by the end of 2015, Ukraine has guaranteed preferences when, on the one hand, our goods are sold in Europe seamlessly, while in the Ukrainian market, European production works under the WTO rules, supporting the Ukrainian manufacturer, the Ukrainian budget and the Ukrainian currency exchange rate. The domestic economy has received one and a half extra years to be competitive, quality and effective in preparing for competition with our European partners and manufacturers. In doing so, I want to thank the European Union for this multibillion-dollar bonus they have shown in supporting Ukraine in these difficult times. On the other hand, our European partners are asking for one thing: reforms. Do Not Procrastinate! Neither war nor political situation is nor can be excused for the absence of reforms. And I am confident that the National Reform Plan "Strategy 2020" will be presented together in the near future. We don't have a blanket that everybody's pulling on -- it's the responsibility of the President of the government, the Parliament. And only if we act unitedly and effectively will we attain victory. If anyone tries to open an internal front, it will be against Ukraine. Neither I, nor the government, nor the Supreme Council will allow this to happen. [[Applause]] Among other things, these reforms foresee that Ukraine should become a zone of a powerful anticorruption operation. And as of today, I expect Parliament to pass the National Anti-Corruption Bureau Act. [[Applause]] Friends! These are our obligations in implementing this Agreement and voting for this project will be the best witness instead of talking that we have already begun implementation. Dear friends! Back in the 20s of the last century, the great Ukrainian Mikola Wave. It's simple, but it's a big slogan: "Give Europe!".. Like Waves, we understand Europe as a psychological category that leads us to a great tract of progress. Today, we are confidently on this European path. I want to remind you the start was hard, but the finish will be victorious. Thank you, Europe! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-16-m0.u29	Dear friends! Dear colleagues, let me remind you that we need to vote, this will now be just a historic moment when we and the European Parliament take a decision. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the draft Law (Registration No. 0098) on the Ratification of the Association Agreement between Ukraine on the one hand and the European Union, the European Atomic Energy Community and other member states on the other hand for adoption as a basis and as a whole. I ask you, Your Honor, to vote. [[13:17:55]] For 355 () [[Applause]] Decision taken. Hello! () [[Applause]] [[The Moon of the Hymn of Ukraine]] Glory to Ukraine! [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, in your presence, I am signing the Act on the Ratification of the Association Agreement between Ukraine, on the one hand, and the European Union and other Member States, on the other hand, and passing it on to the President.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-16-m0.u30	The European Parliament has already voted. And today we have completed the procedure, and as of November 1, the Agreement will enter into force. Thank you all and welcome! The real European breakthrough of Ukraine! Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-16-m0.u31	Dear friends, I ask you to sit in my workplace. Let me remind you that we have a lot of questions to consider today. And together we must now accept the Declaration on Ukraine's European Choice. This statement has been prepared with the Supreme Council Committee in profile. Its authors, apart from the Head of the Supreme Council, are the national deputies: Nemira, Tarasyuk, Bogoslovska, Blagodir, Kurpil, Baloga, Dmitruk, Kirilenko, Pankevitch, Heratshenko. Dear colleagues, let me read the text of this statement. Statement by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Ukraine's European Choice. In the history of Ukraine’s modern era, a significant event took place: the Ukrainian Parliament took a decisive step towards European integration. Having endured 23 years of hesitation and uncertainty, facing severe trials, resisting violent aggression, the Ukrainian people chose the right to live in a free, democratic country. Only in a union of equal, independent, wealthy, democratic and legal European states can such status be acquired. The Association Agreement between Ukraine and the European Union offers such a unique opportunity. Its ratification allows for a comprehensive reform of the country based on European standards and values. We understand that this is going to be a difficult path, but we don't see an alternative for our country. At present, all branches of government are demonstrating unity in seeing the European perspective of Ukraine, and not least because of the external pressure factor, which is openly directed at our country's deviation from its prodigious choice. Those who do so should realize that the more powerful this pressure will be, the more powerful it will be, and the more united the Ukrainian people will be in the struggle to choose their future, for the desire for a higher degree of civil development, the basis of which is democracy and civil society, is an integral part of our country’s strategic development. The Supreme Council of Ukraine, as the sole body of legislative authority that embodies the will of its constituents, states that by ratifying the Association Agreement between Ukraine and the European Union, Ukraine, as a European State that shares the common values of democracy and the rule of law, stresses its sovereign choice for future membership in the European Union in accordance with Article 49 of the Treaty on European Union. In this regard, Ukrainian parliamentarians stress that the ratified Association Agreement between Ukraine and the European Union will be seen as a tool for comprehensive preparation to achieve this goal. The Supreme Council of Ukraine views the ratification of the Association Agreement not only as an incentive for further reforms in Ukraine, but as a further step towards achieving the ultimate goal of European integration, full membership in the European Union. Ukraine’s choice of Europe’s future is decisive and final, and no one will force our country to change its vector of movement! Dear colleagues, there is a proposal to support this statement by our decisions, by our vote. Please support the statement on Ukraine’s European choice by supporting it as a whole. Vote please, Your Honor. [[13:25:37]] For 289 Decision taken. [[Applause]] Thank you. Congratulations, fellows of honor! [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, there is a proposal made by the deputies to announce a moment of silence right now, honoring the memory of those who gave their lives so that Ukraine can be a free country among other equal European countries. [[A Minute of Silence]] Thank you, please sit down. Dear colleagues! Let me remind you, we have a very difficult and responsible agenda today. We thank the government for its cooperation. Please remain those who will work with us on the anti-copying strategy of our country. And now the first, honourable colleagues, is the proposal to consider the Law on the Principles of State Anticorruption Policy in Ukraine (Anticorruption Strategy). The report is planned by this law, Petrenko Pavlov Dmitrovitch. I ask you very much, Your Honor, to support me. So that we can get all the issues under consideration, including Ukraine's anti-corruption strategy, so that we can now go to the first reading of the simplified procedure. I'd like your support, Your Honor. Please vote in favour of the summary procedure. [[13:27:33]] For 104 The decision is not supported. Dear colleagues, by factions, please. Parenthood – 30, Party of Regions – 0, Impact – 30, Economic Development – 6, Peace and Stability – 0, Sovereign European Ukraine – 15, Freedom – 0, non-fractional – 23. Dear colleagues! I'm talking to you. We won't be able to look at all the issues of the agenda. Please, many important issues that concern both the defence of our country and the anti-corruption struggle, and many other important issues that have been insisted upon by representatives of all MP groups and factions. Please, Your Honor, once again support the proposal for a reduced procedure, otherwise we will not consider all other issues. Please, Your Honor, back up. Please take your seats, please support me and vote again in favour of the reduced procedure. [[13:28:30.]] For-140. The decision is not taken. Please, by the factions. Parenthood – 38, Regions – 1, Impact – 21, Economic Development – 6, SMS – 0, Sovereign European Ukraine – 14, Freedom – 34, non-fractional – 26. Dear colleagues! By full procedure, we will consider the matter. Please invite Justice Minister Petrenko Pavel Dmitrovitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-16-m0.u32	Honourable Head of Parliament! Dear National Deputies! Dear Ukrainian people! A historic event has just taken place, when Ukraine has clearly confirmed its civilisational choice, the Association Agreement between Ukraine and the European Union has been ratified. This Agreement is truly a historic decision of the entire Ukrainian people and of the decision he has chosen under extremely difficult conditions and very high prices. This Agreement is also the strategic plan for reform and the road map that Ukraine must pass in order to achieve its ultimate goal, namely full membership in the European Union. So now it's very significant that the first decision we're going to consider right now after the ratification of the Association Agreement is the bill on the approval of anti-corruption strategy. One of the obstacles on our way to the European Union, apart from the war, apart from the external aggressor, is the enemy who actually prevented us on the internal front for many years, that's corruption. This is the enemy who devoured the Ukrainian state and the Ukrainian society from the inside, like the rust that destroys any material. This is the enemy who has actually destroyed our prospects for economic development, for reforming the state apparatus, for full reform of justice, the judicial system, and the law enforcement system. Therefore, I believe that one of the most important blocks of reform in our national plan of implementation of the Association Agreement is the reforms related to the fight against corruption. During these six months, the Ukrainian government has taken a number of legislative initiatives that have been voted in parliament in the fight against corruption. That is why we, Ukraine, were given the right to move to the next phase of the visa-free scheme. But we realize that this is not enough. Ukraine should have a clear anti-corruption strategy and this strategy should be a shared responsibility for Parliament, the President and the government. For many years, Ukraine has approved this strategy at the level of decisions of the Cabinet of Ministers or the President's decrees, but it has always been a declaration. So right now, at this historic moment, we call on members of Parliament to take responsibility and accept this equally important historical document -- the Anti-Corruption Strategy of Ukraine, which will clearly confirm, not just on the level of words and declarations, but on the level of concrete action, our common commitment to the elimination of corruption as phenomena in Ukrainian society and in the Ukrainian state. An anticorruption strategy was developed over a similar period of time. It has been joined by Ukrainian and foreign experts, and has been joined by experts from the European Union, and has been joined by experts from international organizations. And I think that both their expectations and the expectations of millions of Ukrainians are that we're going to accept this document, and the main thing is that we're going to do it. This anti-corruption strategy is a road map for implementing European standards to combat corruption into Ukrainian legislation and into Ukrainian reality. The reality of Ukraine is that corruption has become a domestic phenomenon that has permeated all spheres of life of our people. Corruption is destroyed at the top levels, but it stays at the bottom, at the local level. So only institutional reform, which is anchored in this anti-corruption strategy, will allow us to introduce a rule in the life-style of every Ukrainian, that he does not take essentially any corruption. This anti-corruption strategy determines that Ukraine is creating a national anti-corruption body. I hope that today the national MPs are voting in the same way for this very important law. This anti-corruption strategy involves that we are introducing European rules for the integrity of public service. This anticorruption strategy envisions a range of European standards related to the control, control, and cost of government officials. Control over decisions taken at all levels of the state apparatus. This anti-corruption strategy foresees that the state apparatus will be reformed and will be really effective and European. When a civil servant receives a decent salary for his work and is responsible for breaking laws and corruption. This document is important and strategic. But the basic thing is that this document is the road map that Parliament will approve, and together with the government and the President, it will go through the adoption of specific laws that are already in Parliament that will be introduced within the coming months. Because this is actually the implementation and implementation of the Association Agreement. Dear colleagues! I ask you to support this bill in the first reading. For the second reading, together with you and European experts, together with the public figures who were involved in drafting this bill, we will prepare the final text of the law. And this will be the law that will actually answer that the Ukrainian Parliament has not just ratified the Association Agreement, but that the Ukrainian Parliament has taken concrete steps to implement this Agreement from the first minute of ratification. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-16-m0.u33	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I beg you, we don't have time to discuss matters. Now let's listen to the head of the profile committee, and then we'll be able to speak from MP groups, factions and non-factional groups. Please, Victor Vasilovich Chumak, head of the Committee on Combating Organized Crime and Corruption.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-16-m0.u34	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Good afternoon, citizens of Ukraine! I would like to say that it is symbolic enough that anti-corruption strategies and anti-corruption laws are being considered immediately after the ratification of the Association Agreement. Because the European Association Agreement and the path to Europe is not just the way to European standards of living, but also the way to European standards of governance. The European way of governance is that officials, MPs, politicians are open to the people, are open to citizens who can always be reached, with whom they can always be spoken. So this law that we are now considering with you is one that creates the way to the openness of politicians, officials and states as an institution as a whole. This bill, like everything about the fight against corruption in Ukraine, has a very complicated history. It was the first time we looked at it on our committee in April of this year. We are now looking at a revised and improved version of this document, which, together with the efforts of professional public organizations and the Ministry of Justice, was brought to its present condition. In fact, this text is a road map of what we should do to make the fight against corruption successful and effective. This strategy provides answers to the following questions: how and by what bodies anti-corruption policies should be formed and coordinated; what tools must be used to overcome corruption in representative authorities, in public service, in executive authorities, in public procurement, in the judicial system and in criminal justice bodies, in the private sector; how to reform the system of punishment for corruption; how to expand access to public information in order to have a permanent anti-corruption effect. The strategy contains a very limited list of priorities and a set of clear tasks in each of these directions, which consists in adopting relevant legislation or relevant regulations or in creating or reorganising relevant institutions. This strategy also has a clearly defined set of indicators of success by which it can be evaluated: this is a specific list of laws to be adopted; this is also an increase in the corruption perception index on Transparency International and other indicators that measure whether the implementation of the strategy gives a real anti-corruption effect. At its meeting on July 23, this year, the Parliamentary Special Committee reviewed the project. The committee's views on the bill were divided. My personal position is that this law needs to be adopted so that everyone has a clear answer, what exactly and in what order we're going to do to fight corruption, so that those standards that are written in this law and those indicators become real legal norms on which the executive branch of power would be equal. But most decided otherwise. And the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that the bill be returned to the subject of the right of legislative initiative for further development. The main argument in favour of this decision is that this bill, by its content, is a largely state-level target programme and is not a rule-of-law act with rules of direct action. That's why this program can be approved by the President's decree. This opinion has the right to life, since according to the current norm, it is the President of Ukraine who is the president of the Anti-Corruption and Anti-Corruption Act. Although the bill is being proposed today, it is also changing. I believe that when we live in conditions of the parliamentary-presidential republic, it is Parliament that must take the courage and responsibility to propose anti-corruption strategies to society and control their implementation. It's a wonderful task. The final decision of this document remains with us. But let's be honest, it's not as important to accept this strategy as it is to prove that we're ready to do it. Today, immediately after the adoption of this law, there is the Law on the National Anticorruption Bureau. I hope that we will go through these laws with dignity and will be able to open our next step to the adoption of the National Anti-Corruption Office Act, which is submitted by the President, which is absolutely unanimous. And that's why today's decision on the Anti-Corruption Bureau Act will be judged by both journalists and voters and our voters. I want to say that you're going to be, you know, such a very important repertoire of those who really want to fight corruption and those who don't want to. That's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-16-m0.u35	Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss? There's a need. Please log in from factions. Please, People's Deputy Rosenko, Strike Squad.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-16-m0.u36	Paul Rosenco, Vitaly Caller's Faction. And of course, our faction will unanimously support the project, despite what it has, of course, a framework. But it is still a plan of action, and it is a political commitment that takes all the power to make civil choices, the civilisational choice that the President of Ukraine said today, including, is an anti-corruption operation in Ukraine, the anti-corruption cleansing of the country, the new principles of anti-corruption activity in our country. And that is why the Supreme Council of Ukraine today has to adopt this principle of decision and take responsibility, including for carrying out this brutal anti-corruption policy, because this is question number 1. Of course, today the country is in a state of fighting, and certainly everyone is concerned about the situation in the East. But nevertheless, we must, in parallel with the country's cleansing of the terrorist coven, talk about clearing the country from a corrupt cove in order to form today such an attractive business and an investment environment that will enable Ukraine to open up to an investor after the war. Open Ukraine to inflow external investment that will give Ukraine just the chance for strong economic and social development. That is why we support the necessary fight against corruption. We are ready to assume responsibility for holding a harsh anticorruption position in our country. And we're willing to vote in favour of this bill as a whole faction. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-16-m0.u37	Thank you. Please, the People's Deputy Leonov of the Freedom faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-16-m0.u38	Please pass the word to Osuhov.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-16-m0.u39	Please, National Deputy Osuhovski.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-16-m0.u40	Oleg Osuhovsky, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, the city of Raven. Mr. Head, fellow MPs, brothers and sisters in Ukraine! Indeed, we have already tried once to vote on the National Anti-Corruption Bureau Act as early as May 2013, when opposition leaders filed this law with the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Sadly, though, this law was not passed. He was overwhelmed by the then majority of the Party of Regions, the Communists and their supporters. Of course, they didn't need this law at the time, because they needed to engage in corruption, destroy the economy, the Ukrainian army, and they succeeded. And clearly, we should have put the National Anti-Corruption Bureau Act the next day after the Dignity Revolution. We didn't put it in. And what do we have? We have continued corruption in our Ukrainian state. The "Freedom" faction of the All-Ukrainian Union, of course, is going to support all the bills that will be published today on the National Anti-Corruption Bureau. And we definitely have to eradicate corruption today in Ukraine. Exterminate corruption because international financial organizations and institutions will not give any money to Ukraine today, because they have been financing, lending to Ukraine for over 20 years, and then they don't know where the money is, they're hanging out in their pockets, so most of the money is being stolen. The National Anti-Corruption Bureau bill will be supported today, just as we will support the Illustration Act. Those two laws are indeed necessary for the Ukrainian State today. And clearly, the law states that all those workers who will work at the National Anti-Corruption Bureau should be protected both socially and physically. And we will do everything we can to make it happen, and corruption in our country will finally be overcome. Thank you! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-16-m0.u41	The Pavlovsky People’s Deputy conveys the word to Andrew Kožemiakin.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-16-m0.u42	Dear Chief, distinguished colleagues! The faction, more loyally so, can be said by the "Paternity" party, which today joins the "Paternity" faction, will be fully supported, of course, by these bills. Because all my colleagues have always consistently supported the fight against corruption, the creation of anti-corruption offices in Ukraine. We voted in favour of all the bills before the Supreme Council, unfortunately they didn't get into the agenda, unfortunately they didn't hear us. As we are not heard or heard today, in this room, perhaps above the bill that the European Union required of us. The bill that Ukraine gave the word that it would be adopted by 29 November last year is this bill, which should be a guarantee for Europe, which is really Ukraine today choosing the European path and the European path for law enforcement authorities. I'm talking about an anti-corruption bill called The Prosecutor's Office. Dear colleagues, he's been on the shelf on the committee for six months, unfortunately. Because one prosecutor came, he didn't like it, the other Attorney General came, and he doesn't like that there's a European position and there's a committee position, and there's the position of those who want to fight corruption. I mean, she's completely reforming the prosecutor's office, she's cleaning up the entire corruption component. Who doesn't want to do that today? And, unfortunately, under our democratic power. So of course, I want us to be consistent as always, so we said that we would fight corruption, we would fight, we would talk about illustration. Please, the Fatherland faction and the Fatherland Party in the Fatherland faction have always voted in favour of any illustrative bill. Therefore, for the bill of illustration, for the bill of prosecution, for the projects that our colleagues are offering us today, we will vote, including for the government project that Mr. Petrenko presented. And we're going to be consistent, and I think we're going to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-16-m0.u43	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Rudzkowski, two minutes and we'll make a decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-16-m0.u44	Ladies and gentlemen, the law that we're currently considering is a two-pronged law, because when in Ukraine in the last 20 years there's been a break-up of state budgets, it's stability, now we have conditions of war. At this time, when the entire country raises money for armor, for winter clothes for its sons, we have strong facts in the Ministry of Defence, in other ministries of budget theft. What can we talk about if, over the past month, there are violent facts of violations in the Crucifixion? It seems to me that the time has come for me to change people's jobs, and it's time for me to change the system. The decision to form an anticorruption committee can put an end to it when there is no corruption, including political one. Because not only do we have a central level, we have even more corruption in places and everyone is silent about it, they're used to it. The custom is that people do not pay their wages on time. Yesterday we met with representatives of the Prituk trade unions with the Minister of Finance. He finally opened his eyes that three months' wages were not paid, and the district level shuts down and says that the entire salary was paid. And in all the regions of Ukraine, I don't think I need to think about it, if we vote for an anti-corruption office, we're going to get our expenses checked out. Yes, unfortunately, most members of the Supreme Council think.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-16-m0.u45	Let me finish half a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-16-m0.u46	Who doesn't want to vote in favour of this law. If we do not overcome corruption, people will come to our home and we will have nothing to check, they will burn their homes, and they will take power in their own hands. We have to vote and not postpone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-16-m0.u47	Dear colleagues, I want to consult you, attention, you understand that we have now made very important decisions on the ratification of the Agreement with the European Union -- this is fundamentally important to us. At the same time, ratification provides for a plan of concrete action, and one of the main points of this plan is the unequivocal fight against corruption, and I am now looking at the hall, many of us are so tired of voting for ratification that we are not currently in the process of making an important decision that fills this ratification with concrete meaning. That's why I have a specific proposal, my honourable colleagues, that we move the vote for four hours, my fellow attention. And now we have it. Colleagues, I'm consulting you, calm down, please, so I see one of the main anti-corruption fighters here speaking. Please calm down, please, we have two more laws (4780) and (4781). I was approached by the chairman of the Committee of Chumak Viktor Vasilovich and said that there was an integral law in place, but it can't be introduced as long as these laws are in order of the day, maybe I'll put them up now so that if we don't support them, we can go out after lunch to integrate laws. Alexander Rafkatovich, do we support this idea? You don't. Are you suggesting that we discuss these with the full - time ministry? — Matthew 24: 45 - 47. That's how I see it. Dear colleagues, then we'll do it after the break. And now I'm closing the meeting in the morning. Dear colleagues, once again, the author insists on speaking and discussing this issue. Dear colleagues, I propose as follows: this is the committee head insists, Alexander Rafkatovich Abdullin insists on speaking out of this law, let's give him the floor. Alexander Rafkatovich? None. Colleagues, can I put them to a vote so we can actually take them off the table? I can.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-16-m0.u48	Yes. No, in the first reading, to get out of the way, because the only integral law is being passed. Do you understand? So, your honor, I'm asking 4,780 about the National Bureau of Anti-Corruption Investigations. The author of Chumak Victor Vasilovich suggests that he be removed, and we can do so by voting without supporting him. Is there no objection? None. Please vote for acceptance in the first reading. Please vote. [[13:54:49]] For-93 The decision is not taken. Please, 4780-1. Ladies and gentlemen, I can give the author a chance to report the law, but I can see that the author is not in the room right now. Please vote on support for the first reading of this law. [[13:55:19]] For 105 The decision is not taken. Ladies and gentlemen, I now assign to the protocol the commission of the Committee of Chumaku Victor Vasilovich to hold a committee meeting and to submit after 16 hours an integral law concerning the National Bureau of Anti-Corruption Investigations. And now, dear colleagues, I announce a break in our work by 4:00. I very much ask all deputies to come to the session room at the proper time.
