ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national MPs! Please sit at your workplace and prepare for registration. While national deputies are preparing for registration, I have traditionally reported that they are celebrating the birthday of national deputies Demjanko Mikola Ivanovich and Samylenko Vasil Petrovich. [[Applause]] Please turn on the "Council" system and register the national MPs. [[10:04:06]] There are 295 national deputies registered in the hall. The Supreme Council is starting its work. Dear colleagues! I was able to communicate with the Minister of Defense and the Minister of Internal Affairs this morning. And I inform you that an active phase of an anti-terror operation has been restored in the morning. Our Armed Forces are hitting bases and bases of terrorists. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues! I would like to remind you that on June 26th of this year, 73rd of the year, a prominent Ukrainian national and political actor, the Ukrainian Hero, the Ukrainian National Deputy, I, II, III, IV and VI, twice the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine, Ivan Stepanovich Plush. Please honor John Stepanovich’s memory by a moment of silence. [[A Minute of Silence]] Please sit down. In accordance with article 25 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, on Tuesday we have the opportunity to speak on behalf of authorized representatives of parliamentary groups and factions. Let me remind you, the performances take place for 30 minutes. Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up for the speech. Please, given the presence of people in Parliament, include audio so that people can hear what is happening in the Supreme Council. Dear colleagues, the word is given to the representative of the faction of the Party of the Regions, the national deputy of Levchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m0.u2	Respectable citizenship, ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to turn from this rostrum, from the Supreme Council of Ukraine on behalf of the faction of the Party of Regions and from myself to the citizens of Western Ukraine. Your Honor, you've been betrayed again. What's going on right now is treason. I understand that for people like me who were born in the East, who speak Russian, who stayed in the Party of the Regions, there is no 100 percent trust. But you are now betrayed by those whom you trusted by 100 percent. Whom you believed, who made promises to you in Maidan. Today, the mother's payment for the birth of the second and third children is cancelled. What happened here in the Supreme Council was the majority of the Party of the Regions. Today, VAT on medicines enters into force. And the price of medicine will rise, and you'll pay more for the medicine. Today, a law enters into force, under which you will pay more for housing and utility services. Pensions, salaries and social benefits have been frozen. You've become poorer today. Where is your money going? Since the coup d'état in Ukraine, the National Bank and the leadership of the National Bank have since. You're not whistling, you're listening.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m0.u3	I want you, Your Honor, to give you advice: either stop your speech, or do what is right.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m0.u4	I'm sorry, I'm acting under the law and I'm speaking.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m0.u5	The coup was yours. When you brought Janukovich, the criminal, to power, it was a coup d'état. Therefore, please act according to the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m0.u6	I understand that what I am about to say is unpleasant to the present power, but corruption remains, social standards are not elevated, power is on its own. More than 50 billion grevens The National Bank for the Management of Cuba, which was chosen by this authority, has allocated money to commercial banks. This amount was $30 billion in 2013. Instead of $3 billion, 15 billion was allocated to the Bank of Kolomoyska, Private Bank. Where did that money go? It's money from your frozen wages. It's money from your frozen pensions. It was money that had to go to mothers, social standards and so on. That's the money you're gonna pay for the high tariffs on the CDC. Let's move on. We've been deceived. We were promised decentralization of power. We were promised that Kiev would no longer have exclusive powers, and they would be in Lviv, Uzhgrad, Ivano-Frankowsk, Donetsk, Odessa. That won't happen. The draft Constitution, which offers power, provides for an absolute monopoly of power in Kiev. Local councils remain totally ineligible, the President will have the right to dissolve any local council (district, district, urban) and Lviv and Donetsk. The President, the President's representative will have the right to interfere in the budget, to withdraw local government leaders, and the President will have the exclusive right to appoint the Head of the State Property Fund as the right of Parliament. Parliament represents the whole country, the people have the right to decide who will handle it. The President will have an impact on the force, the President can take a picture of the Attorney General without the Supreme Council, the President can.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m0.u7	Thank you. I can't, we won't make it in accordance with the Rules, please have someone give you the floor. Thank you. Please, National Deputy Rosenko. Half a minute, give me a chance to finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m0.u8	Dear citizens, we're too much. This Parliament is to blame for much to you. Of course, we made a lot of mistakes. But it's not worth it, it's not for the people on Maidan to concentrate and enrich power today. And we, the inhabitants, who were born in the south-east, today become the inhabitants of the “second class” because today power is enriched and makes us all guilty is unjust. Shame on you!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m0.u9	The word is given to the People's Deputy Rosenko, the Strike faction, he gives the word to the faction manager, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m0.u10	Dear Ukrainian citizens, dear colleagues! Vitaly Kowalczuk, Faction of Vitaly Klicka. Well, the first task of today's parliament is to support a solution to the problem of terrorism in Donbas. Before Russia’s aggression, Ukraine knew of similar things only from the history and theory of other countries. So our legislation on the fight against terrorism still needs further work, some of the bills on this issue are already in order this week, and there are no simple solutions. So we suggest that we take these bills as a basis and get them worked up and adopted in general on the profiling committees. This applies, for example, to Bill 4912, which provides the direction of an anti-terrorist operation with additional powers on the ground, and in particular to the organization of an effective force-to-civil interaction. It is also necessary to accept today’s changes to the calendar plan for today’s session and to provide for the work of the Supreme Council by the end of August of this year. [[Applause]] When the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine can bring us together in any case for an extraordinary meeting, and we can also work in the following mode: a week in session mode, a week to work with the electorate and a week to work on the committees. The second big issue that we have really put before us since the signing by the President of Ukraine, Peter Poshenko, of the Association Agreement is the reform of legislation to ensure Ukraine's European integration. Here is the great role of the Cabinet of Ministers, and in all the countries that have already passed the path of successful accession to the European Union, effective cooperation between the government and parliament has been established. For European bills to be first worked jointly by government and parliament representatives and then quickly adopted rather than dealt with in the session room by letter. Third. The need for Parliament’s approval of possible decisions does not invalidate our moral obligation to go through a political illustration. [[Applause]] For the Supreme Council, this illustration is a time-consuming election. I would like to point out that the previous speech by our national MP is a visual indication that this Parliament should be self-resolved and we should ensure that parliamentary elections are held in the next few months. [[Applause]] By the way, some of the actions that make self-debauchery the only decent way for our parliament is once again in Parliament and still in Parliament. For example, it is suggested that this week we consider draft laws that were being considered in April last year in the Bank. I am convinced that, under these bills, Parliament's position should be the next, they have not passed the proper procedure and should be considered in Parliament on full procedure. And the last. The impact faction suggests a weekly review of the bill, a draft bill that would improve life in the Ukrainian economy. There are also a number of laws that require the public. But these bills either don't view the agenda at all, or they treat the agenda at the end of the day, so they don't allow their consideration. So we are stressing once again the need to create a day order in such a way that all the laws needed for society are dealt with in a timely manner. Thank you for your attention. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m0.u11	People's Deputy Tuggnibok, Freedom faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m0.u12	Glory to Ukraine! Oleg Tuggnibok, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Respectable Society! The Freedom faction supports yesterday's decision by the National Security and Defence Council to continue the anti-terror operation. But we are, frankly, surprised to see that today we have not received a proper submission from the President and the decision of the RNB concerning the introduction of martial law in the territory of Donetsk and Lugansk regions, in the territory of the Ukrainian Donbas. [[Applause]] The point is that the introduction of a state of war would be a signal for the entire Ukrainian society, for the entire Ukrainian state. Everything for the front and everything for the Victory! Then everyone would understand, and in the field of economics, then everyone in civil society would understand that we now have the first priority -- to defeat the invaders who are destroying our territory today, who have come from the Russian Federation to destroy our national sovereignty. We are protesting the introduction of a so-called armistice in Ukraine, because this truce did not lead to the release of the hostages, and the military attacks against Ukraine were not stopped. Moreover, ethnic cleansing in the territory of the Ukrainian Donbas continues. We are saddened by the information we received that was killed in the dungeons because of ethnic cleansing by the head of Luhansk's Freedom, Vladimir Semistyaga, Professor Vladimir Semistyaga, head of Luhansk's Enlightenment. This, society, is a continuation of the destruction of Ukrainians in its own territory. That is why we believe that the steps taken by the Ukrainian authorities should be swift, clear, and decisive. And we here, in Parliament, have to reject completely all proposals for the legislative process and vote exclusively for the laws that are necessary for our victory over the occupier. Besides, we don't really understand what this negotiation is with terrorists? How was it possible to negotiate with negotiators such as the pro-Russian politicians – Medvedchuk and Shufric, who have absolutely nothing to do with our side and, on the contrary, they have allowed terrorists to become even stronger, to draw heavy weapons from Russia, which is now being used against the Ukrainian military. We also appeal to our European partners today. Society, we don't understand here in Ukraine what this decision is -- you don't continue sanctions against the Russian Federation? Where is the new wave where the third wave of sanctions against Moscow to get Moscow away from Ukraine? How can the Austrian authorities explain the decision to continue building the South Stream along with Moscow? How can it be explained that today, as a high guest, Austria accepts Putin? Do we not understand what these are instructions from the Chancellor of Germany regarding the introduction of the Medvedchuk negotiating process? We don't understand what some Italian deputies said about the suspension of sanctions against Russia? The whole world today must support the Ukrainian side. And our appeal is absolutely categorical. In addition, society, we believe that, apart from the two-pronged laws required to implement the state of war in Ukraine, we still have to complete the process of illustration in Ukraine. We demand our Book Law. We demand our Law on the Prohibition of Communist Ideology. [[Applause]] We demand that the Ministry of Justice try and ban the Communist Party and the Party of Regions like those parties that run separatist, anti-Ukrainian, terrorist parties. The flag of Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m0.u13	Thank you. National MP Simonenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m0.u14	Respectable citizens of Ukraine! As we see with you today, in the fight for the power of the oligarchs, we have brought war to Ukraine, turned the country into a territory not only of internal interclanism, but of the territory of the geopolitical struggles for markets and resources, in which the innocent citizens of Ukraine are killed. The Company's faction points out that the so-called President's peace plan is actually a reduced and extremely late plagiarism that the peace settlement plan that we, the Communists, proposed in March was actually made public by the Supreme Council. I recall, in early March, even before the Crimean referendum and the withdrawal of the peninsula from Ukraine, when protests in the east against the policies of nationalists and ultra-radicals to plant views and the world view of the inhabitants of one part of Ukraine were tough but peaceful, the Company stated that it was necessary to sit immediately at the negotiating table. In accordance with our proposed peace plan, it was necessary to decide on the immediate disarmament of all illegal militias, agreed and set deadlines, the content of the changes to the Constitution of Ukraine, in particular with regard to the empowerment of the rights and responsibilities of territorial communities in all spheres of economic life, humanitarian policy and the granting of State status to the Russian language. The proposed peace plan should also set and agree on the dates for the holding of all-Ukrainian referendums on the country's State and territorial machinery, on accession to an international organization, agreed positions on judicial reform, the prosecutor's office, the tax, the abolition of pension and medical reform, other urgent issues of social and political change in Ukraine. Without accepting our peace plan, Ukraine was led to a fratricidal war. By adopting our peace plan then, together we would be able to prevent hundreds of deaths, to avoid thousands of wounded and mutilated persons, to prevent tens of thousands of our fellow citizens from becoming displaced and refugees and entire cities from becoming ruins. We could prevent the Balkanization of Ukraine, which the Communists had long warned about. Honourable Ukrainian citizens, on 27 June, President Poroshenko signed under the so-called economic part of the Association of Ukraine in the EU. Once again, I would like to warn Ukrainian citizens of what will happen to them. What will Ukraine get on the case? First of all, rising prices and tariffs on IMF requirements and credit cables, the collapse of bracelets, the freezing of wages and pensions, the reduction of social costs. The State had simply abandoned the entire population under the law to protect: persons with disabilities, Chernobyls, Afghans. What does the people of Ukraine look forward to? Corruption was and remains, for nothing has really changed: just some oligarchs have changed the power of others. The signing of this agreement is the inevitable bankruptcy of many enterprises and their cessation, including those of urban giants, on which hundreds of thousands of people depend. The Association with the EU is not a panacea or a rescue for the people of Ukraine, it is a cover for another transfer of property between oligarchs and transnational corporations. Association with the EU is another step towards NATO moving to the East and colonization of Ukraine with transnational capital. The company has long proposed and supported more than 150 bills with a specific programme of socio-economic, political change that needs to be implemented today. This is primarily the case with regard to the nationalization of strategic industries: energy, engineering, aviation-, shipbuilding and KPC enterprises. This is the abolition of medical, pension reform, the elimination of value added tax and the replacement of the tax on turnover. This is the creation of preferences for innovation, investment in basic industries. But once again, in order to implement our programme, Ukraine needs peace.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m0.u15	The word is given to Anatoly Kinacha, representative of the Economic Development Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m0.u16	Dear National Deputies! The Economic Development Union calls for once again to end political hysteria, declarations, and systematically, with a high personal responsibility to unite around the most important task of protecting peace, security, the lives of Ukrainian citizens and the territorial integrity of our nation. The Armistice confirmed two obvious facts. The first is that Ukraine does not fight peaceful citizens. Ukraine is fiercely opposed and will cruelly destroy terrorists, militants, who today, with weapons in their hands, take lives and destroy citizens of Ukraine, try to destroy our statehood and territorial integrity. The second conclusion. The Armistice confirmed once again that against Ukraine, the 20th-century violent scenario with elements of diversified war, information, cyber-war and this scenario requires Ukraine as a state of concentration of all its available resources: intellectual, moral, human and military. It is very important to draw conclusions on the conduct of an anti-terror operation. The active phase, which has been restored, is not all. It must be said explicitly that the anti-terrorist operation in the format that is being carried out will not produce the necessary results, both for the protection of the lives of citizens and for the State, of Ukraine's territorial integrity. We need a new format that allows, firstly, to create a single command center, coordinate actions. We lose people because of the lack of a clear management system in the ATO, and this is the lives of our people. Secondly, it is necessary to clearly form complex systemic actions, both military and social, informational opposition, to restore citizens' confidence in this area to the state of Ukraine. And that's the only way to achieve that, and it's also a huge effort and time. It is essential that all systems of government work adequately in Ukraine when the state is essentially in a state of war, starting with Parliament, the Cabinet of Ministers and the entire vertical. It's very important to understand that we have, unfortunately, an increasing threat to the socio-economic systemic crisis. And this is no less serious than the defence sector and national security in general. The indicators confirm the decline of the economy, of the Ukrainian industry. And it is very important that the government, together with Parliament, should be able not only to approve fiscal measures, but also to propose clear actions related to development, industrial and entrepreneurial activity in Ukraine. Protect its internal market, especially in the light of the signing of the Association Agreement with the EU. It's not a miracle. There will be no miracle. The EU association is our chance to form modern European standards on Ukrainian soil. And these are our Ukrainian homework assignments. And we're going to be the lead performer. And to the end. Dear National Deputies! When the state is in a state of war, there is a growing systemic socio-economic crisis, the Economic Development Group demands and supports work without parliamentary holidays, as required.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m0.u17	The word is given to the People's Deputy Moshensky, the Sovereign European Ukraine. Please. He conveys the word of Volodymyr to Lithuania. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m0.u18	Dear Head! Dear National Deputies! The last revolution in Ukraine was a direct result of a massive array of acute problems reaching critical proportions. Ignoring them, trying to suppress social dissatisfaction, has resulted in a cumulative explosion. But the question now is, Is this the answer? Is Ukraine guaranteed against the resurgence of another revolution? The answer is no! Because people in society did not get answers to questions that were painful and that were promised solutions. More than that. Now we have to hear that the course is being carried out for the continuation of reforms both in the field of medicine, both in the area of retirement and in other areas. We have a paradoxical phenomenon that necessarily necessary decisions are blocked, and some decisions that have been made are not implemented. People talk about the fact that the current authorities have consistently mastered old corruption schemes. They used to be cynical, they didn't hide it. Today, cynics in power with democratic rhetoric are even more immoral. We need to answer the questions that concern society today and not engage in words of fornication: How can we survive? For the people are surviving and surviving, they are preparing for the worse, they are looking for a means of self - defense. Every day becomes permissive. True, some tend to view it as freedom and democracy. You have to make immediate decisions to clean up the Cabinet of Ministers from a large part of the ministers who are totally not pulling, but they are doing what they are doing in demonstrating temporaryity is working for themselves and for themselves. And that's a fact. In the east of Ukraine, war. War is cruel. During the Armistice, three dozen of our military personnel were killed. In other areas of Ukraine, war centers are being formed. Terrorists and bandits, both outside and outside Ukraine, have actually established a state of war. The country creeps into the dark, and we're talking about the active phase of an anti-terror operation. Yes, the state of war has long been in operation! And it takes courage to make the right decision and to protect the people, to allow the military to perform the function they have to perform. Evil is banalized, note that death is banalized, and has become commonplace. War has become a trade. Deaths are demonstrated in direct mode throughout the world. Instead, we have the efforts of politicians and authorities to integrate Ukraine into our plans. And primarily for reformatting and expanding opportunities for yourself and your parties. And by rules that are convenient to yourself. And it doesn't matter that there are laws that Ukraine is in a state of war. Finally, we want to tilt Ukraine under us one more time, taking into account seasonal ratings. Therefore, the proposal: to resolve the issue of being a number of cabinet members, to support the President in the force bloc. Next. It is proposed that the Supreme Council of Ukraine accept the statement, including the signatures of the factions. To support the President's decisive actions. Take a comprehensive set of measures to be taken, and stop talking about yourself, about your place in the political future. Finally. The offer, my dear colleagues, is made by our group. Advertise.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m0.u19	Let me finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m0.u20	Declare congregations for all national MPs, military congregations. Guide them to the Lugansk, Donetsk and Hersonian regions. A personal example is how we support our military and country. Not here, in the session room, but there, with them! The relevant decision in this regard has already been registered.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m0.u21	National Deputy Sobolev, Fatherland faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m0.u22	Dear Chairman, dear fellow national MPs! I think that the 10 days of unilateral ceasefire have shown the savage face of terrorists, for whom the key question is not a question of political requirements, it's a question of how to intimidate the population, it's a question of how to terrorize entire regions. And I think the adequacy of the response that was adopted tonight by the National Security and Defence Council and approved by the President on the re-establishment of an anti-terrorist operation is already a condition, but not a condition. And what at least five representatives of political groups and factions have said about the need for a military state in Ukraine confirms – Parliament has long been ready for such a decision. And in our view, the President needs to be given a proper order and put it into Parliament urgently. About our order of the day. Well, it feels like we're in two parallel worlds. Indeed, there are four most important issues that relate to the reinforcement of the anti-terrorist operation and our faction fully supports it. There are also a number of issues that require very clear constructive reforms. The Education Act, Alexander Valentine's Day, this law should be laid down at the appointed time today, not the last one in the daytime, otherwise we'll go to the season without having a key Education Act. The Prosecutor's Office Act, again we don't see the Prosecutor's Office Act in the agenda -- it's a law that was in a package of key reforms, required by the so-called "Fule List." And once again, we see that this is a question that we're dealing with. Instead, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Constitution. Our faction has carefully considered these changes, unfortunately, have nothing to do with the decentralization of power. Those cosmetic things that are proposed after the President's presentation on the spot, the order of appointment -- it's actually an old drag blanket, which has more authority. In our view, without a clear consideration of this project on factions and groups, it is impossible to introduce such a "cheese" bill into the hall. This is actually done for one purpose: to state that Parliament does not want to change the Constitution. Show us: Where have we been, where is the real strengthening of local self - government, where is the real strengthening of regional self - government? The appointment schedule? We have seen this at Yanukovich and how it ended. Today, even the faction that so actively supported him is being baptized. That's why the proposal of our faction is that no such "cheese" project should be introduced into the hall. The next question that's equally important is the question of our work. In my opinion, there are a number of projects that have unfortunately only been bugged, the agenda requires clear work for today with scheduled weeks each month, including July and August. That's why, within the framework of these day-to-day mandates, we can make this clear. And the last. It happened that I was literally at the Winnitz military hospital this weekend. This is the hospital that Janukovic’s older son tried to privatize in the center of Vinnica and create a new residence under the Janukovich family. There were now more than 30 of our boys, mostly between the ages of 22 and 30. I think their zeal, their fighting spirit even after they've been seriously wounded is one thing: you can't stop, the orderly operation in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m0.u23	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m0.u24	must be completed and completed. Only in this way can terror be stopped. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m0.u25	Thank you. Dear colleagues! From the non-fractional let's give two performances, National MP Rudzkowski, please. Two minutes for the show.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m0.u26	Dear colleagues! In order to pass all the necessary laws and we weren't caught up in time, I suggest next week we make it a session. That's the first one. The second question is, today we are proposing the inclusion of the Election Act, the amendment to add blocks, and the electoral system is left with the same. I still insist that we return and that laws with open regional party lists include this law in the agenda, and this is the law that everyone has promised their voters that their opinion will be taken into account in the formation of the new Supreme Council. I'm also addressing you, Mr. Head, today the first question is Law 4185a also (4185a-1) (alternative), it's about restructuring of foreign currency debt and transferring it to a bracelet. This law is prepared as an alternative to what bankers with a working group have prepared. This bill is prepared by the borrowers, who are able to handle their loans and lift the tension that is in society with evicting hundreds of thousands of people from their apartments. I also propose to re-vote 4895 today, which has not obtained a suitable number of votes and is supported by borrowers to relieve the tension in society. Dear colleagues! Of course, we may have different priorities.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m0.u27	National MP Lazko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m0.u28	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. The All-U.S. Society welcomes President Dustenk's decision to continue the anti-terror operation. After all, it is obvious that peacemaking policy has never stopped an aggressor and will not force terrorists to lay down arms. In Luhansk, terrorists killed a well-known public figure, the head of Education, Vladimir Semistag. Two weeks from the hands of the terrorists in the basements of the Luhansk SBU, a prominent public figure in Luhansk, Alexander Restetniak, was killed. The responsibility for these deaths rests with those members of the Supreme Council who have not voted in favour of the laws on strengthening the fight against terrorism, which do not vote in favour of the Act on Strengthening the Security of the Army, namely: Communists, regions are responsible for the killing of Ukrainian citizens. While Ukrainians are being killed, the King walks freely through Lugansk, through Donetsk, in the Supreme Council Hall, we see the Olyanic who waved here on January 16th, passed dictatorial laws, and now look at his cholona face, he's having a fright, he's obviously taken the money to the prosecutor's office, his son continues to work as prosecutor of the Cherka district. Is everyone okay? I mean all those people who robbed the country with Yanukovic because you think you've already made a deal with everyone, what's paid for it, and what's agreed? And that's why you're calling for Maidan's release and that's why you're sending the best fighters to the front, and you and your kids are hiding in the back. And when Mr. Litwin proposes to make a decision about the congregations on the front, who wanted to go there a long time ago 100 times. And it doesn't have to be, and it doesn't have to be the deputies themselves. Take your children there, not hide them in Oxford.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m0.u29	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we had several speeches during the talks with representatives of the MP factions and groups. First of all, with regard to the Education Act, I'm going to inform the distinguished national MPs that the Education Act will be the first to be considered in a block of draft laws to be adopted in a second reading. [[Applause]] So please, I ask that they be ready in the government bed for comments on this law, and I ask the head of the committee to prepare themselves as well. The next question, respected colleagues, was about the need for a state of war. Even draft decrees brought me up to date. I would like to remind you, fellow warlords, that the state of war is imposed solely by the President's decree, and that Parliament must approve this decision within two days. So, dear fellows, we must work within our jurisdiction. With regard to today's order of consideration, I would like to ask the distinguished people's deputies to support projects, especially those related to strengthening our country's defences. And another fact that I can't help but publish is the announcement, the honourable colleagues. In accordance with article 60, part 3, of the Supreme Council’s Rules, we report the departure of the national deputies of Kudri, Zubchevsky, Samoilenko, Douba, Goncharova, the Jury of the Communist Party of Ukraine. [[(Noise in the hall) (Applause)]] Dear colleagues, regarding the cessation of the faction, I have instructed the regulatory committee to study the matter. I was given a report that according to the Rules, the minimum position is solely with respect to MPs. To avoid this problem, there is a proposal to make changes to the Rules, and then we will be able to make an objective decision on this matter. So, honourable colleagues, instead of yelling, prepare a project, and I'll put it to the vote. Dear colleagues, we are now moving on to the agenda. And the first cluster of issues concerns many of our citizens, namely, those who have received foreign exchange loans and who do not have the ability to secure their repayment due to exchange rate changes. We also have a lot of people around Parliament on this very issue. And I'd like us to make a very effective decision right now. Dear colleagues, I would ask you not to leave the hall, but rather to enter the hall. And I'd like to make an announcement so that all the national MPs come to the decision-making room. Dear colleagues, we have a working group working on the draft Law 4185a -- this is a draft law on the restructuring of foreign currency liabilities into national currency. It's a project by the people's deputy, Kydi. At the same time, an alternative project was introduced on Friday — National Deputy Rudzkowski — 4185a. And another project was introduced from this issue (registration number 4185a-2). Once again: 4185a is Kaidi, 4185a/1 is Rudzikowski and 4185a/2 is a project by the National Deputy of Kniazevic, who worked with the National Bank of Ukraine (I would like us to pay attention to this project). All of these projects relate to the same problem and offer a solution. And also, honourable colleagues, there are two drafts of the Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code (for practical implementation of the provisions of the Law on the Restructuring of Foreign Currency Liabilities into the National Monetary Act). This refers to the problem of restructuring such debt in order not to impose a tax debt on the State Budget for those who are subject to this law. These are two projects: 4186a and 4186a-1. Dear colleagues, here's the deal. I'm going to the hall. So that we don't upset the situation, there's a request that we include all of these projects in the agenda. In order of the day, I emphasize. And now. In view of the alternative projects both Rudzikowski and Knazevitch, I would like to ask the profile committee to consider them and be ready after they have been considered so that we can make a decision in the hall about the first reading of these laws. No objection, dear colleagues? There's no objection. Please, Your Honor, pay attention! – to support the inclusion in the agenda of a draft Law on the Restructuring of Foreign Currency Liabilities (draft 4185a, 4185-1 and 4185a-2). Please, Your Honor, support the inclusion of these projects in the agenda of our session. Please vote. [[10:49:35]] For 248 Decision taken. Thank you. And there are also two related laws, registration number 4186a and 4186a-1, which are draft laws amending the Tax Code on the Practical Implementation of the Law on the Restructuring of Foreign Currency Liabilities into the National Currency of Ukraine. Please, Your Honor, support the inclusion in the agenda of these two alternative laws. Please vote. [[10:50:18]] For 263 Decision taken. Thank you. I'm assigning a profile committee to consider these issues and to report to the hall as soon as possible so that we can look at the content. Dear colleagues, next question. There is an offer not only to include it in the agenda but also to make a decision. I ask you, fellow Members, these are two questions that we cannot not vote on today. This is Project 4175a, the draft Law on Amendments to Article 7 of the Ukrainian Law on State Rewards (for the establishment of the Order of the Heroes of the Sky 100) is the proposal of the President of Ukraine, and Project 4022a, this is the draft Act on Amendments to Article 6 of the Law on the Status of War Veterans, Their Guarantees of Social Protection, is the draft of the National Orphan Deputy. Please, Your Honor, support the inclusion in the agenda of these two issues. Vote, Your Honor, please. [[10:51:37]] For 233 Decision taken. Thank you. Please, colleagues, support the proposal for a simplified procedure for addressing these issues. Please be supportive. Short-term procedure. [[10:52:04]] For 225 I remind you, this is a procedural decision. Decision taken. The word is given to the representative of the President of Ukraine in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Knyazevitch Ruslan Petrovich. Remember, we're looking at Law 4175 on Amendments to Article 7 of the Ukrainian Law on State Prizes for Ukraine (on the establishment of the Order of the Heroes of the Celestial Hundreds). Please, Ruslan Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m0.u30	Thank you, Your Honor, sire, for your respectable fellow national MPs. The President of Ukraine introduced a draft law on the amendment of article 7 of the Ukrainian Law on Ukrainian State Prizes (registration number 4175). The draft Law was designed to perpetuate the memory of the heroes of our nation who died during the Dignity Revolution. It is proposed to complete the list of Ukrainian orders with the new Order of the Heroes of the Celestial 100. The adoption of this law will result in the establishment of a new national award for Ukraine and the creation of the conditions for marking, starting in 2014, the nationals of Ukraine, foreigners and stateless persons who, during the Declaration of Dignity during November 2013 – February 2014 and other events related to the protection of Ukraine's independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity, demonstrated special civil courage, patriotism, self-serving of the Ukrainian people, upholding the constitutional principles of democracy, human rights and freedoms, and active charitable, humanistic and social activity. The bill also proposes that the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine be given a mandate to ensure that an all-U.S. competition is held for the better design of the Order and the production of attributes of the State Prize. Dear colleagues! I would like to point out that this is the first bill submitted by the President of Ukraine to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. This move by the President has been made consciously, emphasizing the attention of Parliament and society that nothing and should ever erase our memories, gratitude and respect for those people who courageously, fearlessly and with great faith in the heart have advocated a better future for our country. This victory is the victory of European values, the European future for every citizen, first and foremost for our children and grandchildren. We have paid too much for a simple desire to live honestly, justly, and dignifiedly. And to preserve and honor the memory of those who have fought for their own lives and health is our sacred duty. Therefore, honourable colleagues, I ask you to support the President's legislative initiative.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m0.u31	Please let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m0.u32	And to adopt this law as a whole. In order to get the project started as soon as possible and to work on the sketches of the project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m0.u33	Thank you. Zwania National MP from the profile committee. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss? There is no need to discuss. I ask the Secretariat to make an announcement so that all the national deputies will sit in their seats. Dear colleagues, please come to the hall, Sergey Volodymyrovich. So that we can make a decision without discussion. Dear colleagues, sit down, sit in your seats, prepare for responsible voting. Dear colleagues, you understand the importance of this question, it is our duty, it is our duty to accept it before the heroes who have laid their lives for the liberation of our country from tyranny. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like you to support the National People's House. Colleagues, pay attention! Near the columns, colleagues, I ask very much for my jobs to be able to uphold the law. Please support on the basis of the draft Law 4175a amending article 7 of the Ukrainian Law on Ukrainian State Prizes. Ladies and gentlemen, please support the vote. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:56:37]] For 244 The decision is made as a whole. Thank you. The next question is, Your Honor, about strengthening the security of our country, namely. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, I said on the basis of the whole. On the basis and in general. Listen carefully, yes. Dear colleagues, the issue relates to the social protection of our military, which protects Ukraine. Please, National Deputy Orotuk Yuri Mikolaiovich. The only one, Yuri Mikolaiovich, is to proceed with a reduced procedure. I think you'll support it. Please support, Your Honor, the brief procedure for dealing with this matter. Did we vote in two? It's all right, dear fellows. Please, Yuri Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m0.u34	Yuri Orotyuk, All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, Cherkaščina. So the draft Ukrainian Act amending article 6 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans, Guarantees of Their Social Protection is designed in connection with the need to organize the group of persons involved in the anti-terrorist operation, to ensure its implementation, and to participate in the anti-terrorist operation to establish their status as a party to the hostilities. In particular, the bill is based on the law on the fight against terrorism in part on the definition of the circle of persons who engage in the fight against terrorism. This bill is technically technical, and it provides that reserve, military and military personnel of the Ukrainian Armed Forces are added to the circle of persons already defined in the current legislation. Because there's the excitement of people taking part in an anti-terror operation, that they might not fall under that law. In addition to the aforementioned military formations, the Ukrainian Armed Forces, the National Guard, the Ukrainian Security Service, the Ukrainian Foreign Intelligence Service, the Ukrainian State Border Service, the Ukrainian State Security Authority, which participates in the anti-terrorist operation, the State Special Liaison Service, and the protection of Ukrainian information that protected Ukraine’s independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity, participated in the anti-terrorist operation and ensured its implementation. The bill provides for the delegation of powers to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to determine the status of a participant in hostilities without the publication of a list of these persons, provided for by the Anti-Terrorism Act. This will allow information about them to be kept secret, which is important for the safety of their families and themselves. This bill was passed jointly by a group of deputies from the National Security and Defence Committee. Please support it as a whole, because it is technical. And the Ukrainians who are protecting Ukraine today in the Ukraine's pre-war war with Russia are concerned that all the categories of people who are participating in the fighting today will be subject to this bill. Thank you for your attention. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m0.u35	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss matters? There's a need to talk, okay. Then please sit down. The head of the Committee on Pensioners and Disabled Persons is Suskevich Valeriy Mihajlovich. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m0.u36	Bill No. 4022a, which is under consideration today, aims to organize the circle of persons involved in the antiterrorism operation and to ensure that it is carried out, as well as to participate in the operation. The status of members of the armed forces, the National Guard, the Security Service, the External Intelligence Service, the State Border Service, the Office of State Security of Ukraine, the State Special Liaison and Information Protection Service, which not only protected Ukraine’s independence, sovereignty, and territorial integrity, as well as involved in ensuring the conduct of antiterrorist operations, is appropriately defined. It is also suggested that the status of employees of enterprises, institutions, and organizations involved in an antiterrorist operation be considered in accordance with established legislation. I have to say that the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons has not considered this bill at its meeting and it will be considered today at a committee meeting during a lunch break. However, I think that this is my personal position, this bill can be supported for inclusion in the agenda and consideration in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m0.u37	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please sign up for two for two, two against. The Osuhov People's Deputy faction of Liberty.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m0.u38	Please pass the word to Yuri Orotyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m0.u39	Please turn on Yuri the Orphan's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m0.u40	Yuri Orotyuk, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. I would like to point out once again that this bill provides only for amendments to article 6 of the Law on the Status of War Veterans, guaranteeing their social protection. When they are directly on the front line, the reserve is concerned that they are not under military service. And so it was specifically reported that the soldiers are also reserve, military - bound and armed forces of Ukraine, because there is an apparatus of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. Similarly, you know that the relationship to the advanced today, in view of the complex link provided by the State Service Department for Special Liaison and Protection of Information of Ukraine, which were not included in the bill, even though they are directly engaged in combat functions in the area of conducting an antiterrorist operation. Likewise, the Special Forces, the Department of State Protection, not only protects the Supreme Council of Ukraine and other government authorities. And the branch of the Department of State Security was directly involved in the fighting and should also be subject to this bill. And when it comes to employees who are involved in security, it's only about military specialists who are special technicians from Ucrobornprom, who are on site setting up defense techniques and who are on their way to the site of an anti-terrorist operation. Again, the Anti-Terrorist Operation Act stipulates that the list of persons is secret because the Anti-Terrorist Act does not allow this to be ensured, so this mandate is given to the Cabinet of Ministers. Please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m0.u41	People's MP Medunica, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m0.u42	Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m0.u43	Viacheslav Kirilenko, out of the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m0.u44	Viacheslav Kirilenko, Party "For Ukraine!"Faction of the Fatherland. Ukraine is in a difficult situation. For the first time since World War II, heavy arms fighting has taken place in Ukraine — artillery, tanks, and aviation. Just as the Fascist Germany treacherously crossed the Ukrainian borders in 1941, Russia now crossed the Ukrainian border without declaring war, occupying Crimea and trying to occupy the Donetsk and Lugansk region, carrying out terrorist and diversified acts in the territory of Kharkiv, Zaporez and other areas. In fact, the fighting in Ukraine has been going on for a third month. Of course, all those who do not harm their lives and health should be granted this status as part of the fighting. Because so far a lot of those who haven't sniffed the dust have been given the status of a participant in combat since they visited three nine places in the hotspots. This bill offers our military soldiers, reserve men, military - bound volunteers to grant them the status of a participant in hostilities. Without forgetting any unit, no subordination, and the State Security Authority is engaged in hostilities and the State Special Forces, and other units, and today, when the anti-terrorist operation went back into active phase, the adoption of this bill by Parliament as a whole is the least that the Supreme Council of Ukraine can do for Ukrainian military personnel right now? And of course, we have to insist on bringing the issue of martial law to Parliament as soon as possible. Ours are fighting there, and many things they are forbidden to do. And terrorists are allowed everything -- they're long outside the law. That is why we must adopt this law and bring about a state of war. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m0.u45	National Deputy Cibenko, U.K.A.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m0.u46	Thank you. Communist faction, Peter Cibenko, head of the Ukrainian Veterans Organization. Dear colleagues! Dear citizens of Ukraine! First of all, what I'm saying is that those of us who are saving for adopting this bill are saying that it's a technical law, that it's supposed to be moving a coma or a dot. Let's be honest, it's not like that. First of all, I would like to stress that the Law on the Status of War Veterans, the guarantee of social protection as the first key word, is that it is legal, it gives a certain status. It was accepted in the remote area now in 1993, and during that period more than 200 rights, changes, were made. So actually this law today has turned into a trifle of caftan. I want to say that the faction of the Ukrainian Company will not support it and we have a counteroffer. If the State has a desire, and the main cost of adopting this law, it is possible to adopt a separate law to address all issues related to the conduct of an antiterrorist organization. Moreover, in recent times the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine has been increasingly questioning the enforcement of those laws that have been passed by the Hall of Meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine financially. So once again, I insist that if this decision is to be made, it should be adopted by a separate law with a clear list of all the categories that have a bearing on it. So once again, I stress that the faction of the Company of Ukraine will not vote for this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m0.u47	The word is given to the People’s Deputy of Dudenkov, a faction of the regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m0.u48	The word is given to Eugene Vadimovich Morozenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m0.u49	Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m0.u50	Good afternoon, distinguished colleagues! As Secretary of the Committee, I would like to support my Chairman and inform you that the bill has unfortunately not been considered by the Committee, has not been heard by professionals, has not heard the views of civil society, public organizations, nor has the procedure been carried out. I would like to request the distinguished President not to impose unprepared laws in violation of the Rules on the agenda of the session and to insist on their adoption as a whole. This will result in a great number of mistakes and will bring evil instead of good. Therefore, let alone the substance of the bill, I would like to propose that it be postponed until the time is right. will consider its Committee. And that'll happen at 2:00, that's the first. And second, it's not a technical document, it's a statutory law, it's a law that's very important and it's not necessarily appropriate to adopt it quickly. There is an expanded range of beneficiaries. Let us then directly record that everyone who wishes to recognize such a Cabinet of Ministers is entitled to this benefit. There will be general drivers, there will be secretaries, there will be other persons who have nothing to do with fighting. Instead of bringing the whole process together and streamlining it, we're going to put a snag in it. The existing law, the law in force, clearly understood all benefits, including those involved in counter-terrorism operations, were defined and no further legislative changes were required. I therefore ask once again: let us postpone the decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m0.u51	Dear colleagues, the strike faction insists on speaking. People's MP Rosenko asked. He's the hero of the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m0.u52	Heroceno.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m0.u53	Dear colleagues, first of all, it's obvious that our faction is already supporting everyone, and those bills are designed to support our military. But this bill can only be supported in the first reading, so that really the profiling committees can make changes, so that it doesn't happen that our military under this bill is going to be backed up by those headquarters that are now being fed at the expense of, you know, money that needs to be directed at the military. And the second. There have been many discussions in this room today regarding the ATO. Today, the President’s decision to restore the ATO is supported by both the civilian population and the military. And the ATO forces today have all the necessary weights to neutralize terrorists and gunfighters. But everything else, my fellow respects, we have to talk, taking into account the whole range of problems. Because the President of Ukraine is primarily guided by his decisions to ensure the maximum security of the civilian population in the East.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m0.u54	Let me finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m0.u55	And also taking into account the opinions of our partners in the West, which today must be alongside Ukraine in order to ensure our sovereignty and security in Ukraine. And that's why we have to take this into account, not push it into other decisions that are actually secondary today. The main thing today is that the ATO forces have all the necessary instructions, all the necessary decisions to neutralize terrorists and people with weapons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m0.u56	Thank you. National MP Kuzmuk, please 1 minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m0.u57	This bill is carefully considered at the Defence and Security Committee and at the meeting of the MP's Economic Development Group. So what I'm saying is that it completely fills in the gaps that were in the existing law. We've already begun to divide into whites and blacks and forget about those who are now fighting, protecting Ukraine, and unfortunately, dying. We have more than just those in the ATO. We've taken out tens of thousands of military, other military formations that are in a dangerous zone that we're also losing under bullets. This law is just for all, for all, whom we have forgotten. And you don't have to take it out on the backseats, on the staff. This law provides for those who risk their lives. And we demand that it be accepted as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m0.u58	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I ask you to calm down, sit in your seats, prepare for the vote. The Secretariat has been requested to make an announcement so that all members of the national parliament can enter the session room. We made two proposals during the presentations: one proposal is to adopt the law as a basis and in general, the second proposal is to collect. To be accepted in the first reading, to meet the committee during the break, to consider it, and to follow the decision of the committee of profile, so that we can accept it in general this afternoon. Is that the format you're taking? Roger that. I'm the only one, please, dear colleagues. Now we're going to take it as a base. During the second reading during the break, because we don't have time, dear colleagues, to stretch the matter. It is the protection of those who are now putting their lives in favor of Ukraine. I would like to make it clear when preparing for the second reading, which is not just about the reserve, the military-bound, etc., but about the reserve-bound soldiers who are assigned to the Armed Forces of Ukraine, the National Guard of Ukraine and other military formations who are serving in the territory of those units involved in the anti-terrorist operation. This is exactly the format I would ask that we make sure that we really don't have any attempt under this law to move on to those who haven't even been where the fighting is taking place. So, honourable colleagues, I ask you to support me on the basis of the commission that I gave to the committee of profile so that we can vote on it in general today. Please, Your Honor, support Bill 4022a. Please vote. [[11:14:46]] For 249 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, we are moving to the block, once again a large block of issues related to the inclusion in the agenda of the day session. [[B in m in s a l in]] I remember everything, dear fellows! I have a very good memory. Don't you want to vote with a package, dear colleagues? [[B in m in s a l in]] Is there no wish or wish? I have a chamberton of regulatory positions, the Strike faction. There's no wish. Okay. So please. Please, Your Honor, let's move on to the agenda of the day session. And I'd like us to get started. Take it easy. It's the issues that strengthen our defenses. Among other things, respectable colleagues, both military and the Ministry of Internal Affairs, appealed to Parliament to adopt a law that exempts customs and VAT from the introduction into Ukraine of helmets and vests. You know, our industry can't produce enough, and we need today, not tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, but today to protect our soldiers. And that's why, honourable colleagues, there's an offer to include them in the agenda, they don't even have them on the list, but they've done them fast enough, at the request of the Armed Forces and the Ministry of Internal Affairs. Two laws: 4200a and 4200a-1 are two alternative laws related to exemption from customs and 4199a and 4199a-1 are laws related to exemption from tax on added value, namely helmets, solely and armoured vests. May we, dear fellows, include them in the agenda? I see the insistence for a moment of the national deputy Jeremeyev. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m0.u59	Dear head, distinguished national MPs. In fact, many volunteers today still bring helmets to the border. But what is needed is for the Minister of Economics to change his position on the use of dual-use goods. We had 500 helmets in Ustila two days ago, and the smuggling department banned them from entering Ukraine because they had a double assignment. Please let the minister of the economy pay attention to this and make sure that he makes changes to the materials that have a double assignment, thus simplifying the procedure and making it possible for volunteers to carry helmets and vests. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m0.u60	Thank you. An important point. I ask that you define it as a protocol commission to the Ministry of Economics, directly to the Minister of Economic Affairs for immediate use of the measures. Dear colleagues, once again. I'm voting on the inclusion of 4200a and 4200a-1 in the agenda as well as 4199a and 4199a-1 in the agenda. Please, Your Honor, back up. Please vote. [[11:18:23]] For 252 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, pay attention! Wait a minute. I'd like to ask you, I'm going to the profile committee right now. As we pause to consider these draft laws so that we can base them, they're very short, they understand their meaning. So that we can accept them today both as a basis and as a whole. Please, your honor, the committee, the authors of the law, along with the committee, please elaborate on this issue. So that today, either after 12 or after four hours, we can take them as a basis and as a whole. Thank you. Dear colleagues, now with regard to the schedule, more faithfully, the plan that you have put in place for approval. Two alternative laws are proposed for inclusion in the agenda: 4055a and 4055a-1; these are draft laws on by-products of animal origin that are not intended for human consumption. Please, Your Honor, with regard to the inclusion of 4055a and 4055a-1 in the agenda, please vote for inclusion. Please vote. [[11:19:46]] For 265 Decision taken. Next question, dear colleagues. 4912, this is a bill amending some Ukrainian legislation on improving the fight against terrorism. Please, Your Honor, let us support this important question, 4912, regarding the inclusion in the agenda of the session. Please vote. [[11:20:20]] For 232 Decision taken. Thank you. The next question is the draft Law on the Principles of State Regional Policy. Please 4069a for inclusion in the agenda. [[11:20:51]] For 242 Decision taken. We're voting very well. I'll knock on the table. Dear colleagues, all I ask is that I address Vitali Kowalczuk. Vitaly, regarding Law 4912. Please, when the profile committee is ready to review it so we can put it on Thursday for adoption. Not ready? Please, please, and I'm giving a task to the profile committee. An important project so that we can vote quickly this week. Please turn on the mic.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m0.u61	Alexander Valentine's Day, we have a proposal for this bill to be considered by the profile committee at a moment's notice, and we would at least consider it on the first reading today. If, perhaps, it was accepted as a whole. But our proposal was to consider it in the first reading, and then the profile committee could make suggestions.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m0.u62	Dear colleagues, please, the head of the committee is in your faction, please organize a job. When the committee is ready, I'm ready to put him to the vote. Please, Your Honor, here's the question: the draft Law on the Moratorium on Forced Housing, forced alienation from housing and utility networks. Disengagement, excuse me, from housing and utility networks, prohibition of billing and fines and other penalties in the event that payments for residential and utility services are made in a timely manner to citizens who live in the territory of an anti-terrorist operation in the Donetsk and Lugansk areas. Please, Your Honor, 4188a. Please support the inclusion in the agenda of the session. [[11:22:57]] For-300 Decision taken. Next question, dear colleagues. Registration No. 4076a, draft Law amending the Ukrainian Budget Code for the Accounting of Rentals for Water Objects to Local Budgets. Dear colleagues, please, regarding the inclusion in the agenda. Please be supportive. Support local budgets, please. [[11:23:35]] For 278 Decision taken. Next question, dear colleagues. The draft Law on Voluntary Unity of Territorial Communities Please, Your Honor, 4070a. Please support the inclusion in the agenda. [[11:24:05]] For 278 Decision taken. Next question: Draft Act on Amendments to Article 51 of the Ukrainian Law on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine (to improve the procedure for the adoption of acts by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine). May I remind you, registration number 4153a. Please support the inclusion in the agenda. [[11:24:39]] For-162 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Parenthood – 72, Party of Regions – 3, Impact – 0, Economic Development – 16, Sovereign European Ukraine – 8, Freedom – 33, Company – 0, non-fractional – 30. Next question, dear colleagues. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please turn on Alexandra Kugel's microphone. It's better with the microphone. Alexander Volodymyr, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m0.u63	Alexander Valentinovich, distinguished national MPs! How can we not vote on the inclusion of a daily bill that makes it possible for such a difficult, practically war state, to go to war, to prevent decisions from being made by the Cabinet of Ministers if an urgent, extraordinary situation is conducted by conducting a survey, as is possible not to vote. Let us wait for weeks for the Cabinet to meet, and we must make a decision day after day.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m0.u64	Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m0.u65	Alexander Mirny, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. What's funny is that we're talking about putting a very important issue into the agenda right now. And in the view of the faction of the All-Ukrainian Union of Freedom, if there are objections, or observations, they are being expressed in the process of discussion when it comes to first reading. And even the failure to bring this issue into the agenda is a desire not to look at issues that are really very important for the Cabinet of Ministers and for the country as a whole. Because otherwise we're going to explain Kabmin's inaction, in situations where we need to, if we don't even allow ourselves to consider the issues that we're dealing with. So it seems to me that, especially coalition colleagues, have to support this issue, the introduction, I emphasize, the introduction of the agenda, and then the comments will be considered. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m0.u66	Grizzenko National Deputy, 1 minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m0.u67	Dear colleagues, the government has passed a perfectly normal bill to speed up decision-making in situations where government members are out of place: the one in Slovenia, the one in foreign deployment, somewhere else. Perhaps not everyone knows that the same order works for the National Security and Defence Council; it often makes decisions through surveys. And this procedure has worked in many governments: if some serious warnings are made in the course of this survey by members of the government, then a real meeting is held, and this can be predicted in the second reading. I believe that the coalition, which has 259, should vote unanimously, at least, for inclusion in the agenda. Everything else looks like a démarche that's holding back the government's normal work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m0.u68	Thank you. Dear colleagues! They're all speaking. Colleagues, there was a suggestion to re-place the question of inclusion in the agenda. I ask your colleagues to support this proposal and let's try to support the government's initiative, it's a project (4153) to amend article 51 of the Law on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Let me remind you that we're talking about inclusion in the agenda, really, we can refine positions on the first or second reading. Please support the inclusion in the agenda, please vote. [[11:28:41]] For-170. The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Parenthood – 73, Party of Regions – 4, Impact – 1, Economic Development – 25, Sovereign European Ukraine – 7, Freedom – 34, Company – 0, non-fractional – 26. Dear colleagues! The next question is the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Election of Ukrainian People's Deputies (4162a). Ladies and gentlemen, please make your decision on this matter. Please, dear fellows, we didn't seem to support the vote with a package. Please, National Deputy Sobolev, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m0.u69	Sobolev, the "Fatherland" faction, Dear colleagues! I'm surprised that the law on the basis of which were hundreds of forgeries, trials, the Electoral Act, which allowed Yanukovich to falsify each other's elections, we want to make one single change, the election blocks, what will that change? We'll continue to have those lawsuits, we'll continue to have the same "bought" MPs, so my proposal, if we're going to take this matter seriously, were four bills that weren't removed from the discussion, they didn't get the required number of votes. And there are a number of bills that have been tabled by the people's deputies. If we put it into the agenda, let's take it seriously, include all the existing projects, and then we'll look at them. It's not serious to take one bill with a single rule that doesn't solve anything at all. Our faction will not vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m0.u70	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'd like to remind you that we've passed all the laws we've spoken about in the past, and they haven't received the necessary number of votes. Calmly, I would also like to remind you that we have the daily law of the National Deputy Knazević, if you will, there is a proportional system with the publication of open lists, etc. If we want to, we can look at it, it doesn't have to be included in the agenda, I think. So, dear fellow Mikhalchisin, please turn on the microphone, the national MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m0.u71	Yuri Mikhalchisin, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. The faction believes that this bill is essentially an attempt to restore the electoral system adopted by Yanukovic. Then, not taking into account Ukrainian society's requests for updates to the Supreme Council, clearly today Midan and all Ukraine send a signal to the higher legislative body – exclusively open lists elections. Not the attempt to restore and resuscitate an old corrupt oligarchic law that transforms parliament into a preserve of political corruption and political prostitution. "No" -- political subterfuge, "no" -- political prostitution, "no" -- old law. "Freedom" won't support inclusion in the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m0.u72	Please, Rudzkowski, one minute. Please, I won't turn on the microphone. Out of the way. It's not political talk, it's technical discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m0.u73	Dear Alexander Valentinovich! Dear National Deputies!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m0.u74	Next time I won't give you the opportunity to speak, we're wasting time -- just please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m0.u75	I have introduced a group of Klukkowski laws that meet all the requirements of the Venice Commission 4906-1 "Elections to Parliament for Open Regional and Party Lists" which will allow the voter opinion to be taken into account in the formation of Parliament. That is the law that people demand. There are other laws -- 4906-1, negative 2 and so on. I'm going to Parliament if we are. As a non-fractional meeting with the President, he agreed that the election to the Supreme Council would take place on October 25th on the last Sunday of October. Let's put all the laws in order of the day, the committee is working on it, and we're going to adopt the law on open regional lists to improve Parliament. The president promised in the election that he would uphold such a law. I hope that's the law he's going to sign, and no closed lists that he's going to sign.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m0.u76	Please turn on the microphone. Knjazevich Ruslan Petrovich is a national deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m0.u77	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues, during my time in Parliament, this is my 18th law regarding elections. So to say that it's an attempt to beautify, resuscitate, somehow change the facade is, in a mild sense, not a match for reality. Because even in this vocation, he wrote some laws. Including what has just been said. Why do we have to somehow react to the need to now implement the electoral blocs into electoral legislation? Because that's the requirement of the Constitution that we're back to. This is the 2004 Constitution. And now there's a rule of direct action of the Constitution where these blocks are available. And in this part we are obliged to now, without waiting for what will happen to the elections, to implement part of the Constitution into the law. Because we're going to have a serious coalition, if we had any other elections, let's say, midterm elections, we might have a Central Election Commission now, and it's on the table that has a decision on the interim elections. We forget that we have another kind of election.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m0.u78	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we've determined our position on this issue. I think the real position will now be demonstrated by the vote. The only thing I would ask the authors of the laws not to say is that it is their law that supports the entire Ukrainian people. The Ukrainian people support fair and transparent elections. And it's the honest, transparent elections we have to have in the country, which is the law that is organizing, that will be determined by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, I would like to ask you to identify yourself for inclusion in the agenda of the 4162a project, which is the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Election of Ukrainian People's Deputies (for electoral blocs). Please specify for inclusion in the agenda. [[11:35:31]] For-65 Not much, 65. The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Parenthood – 9, Party of Regions – 0, Impact – 32, Economic Development – 0, Sovereign European Ukraine – 1, Freedom – 0, KPU – 0, non-fractional – 23. The following issue, honourable colleagues, is registered number 4846: the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislative acts to ensure transparency in financing political parties in Ukraine and pre-election agitation. Please, Your Honor, stand by. Attention! – support the inclusion of this project in the agenda, because I hope all of us are interested in having transparent financial formulas for financing parties in Ukraine as well as for pre-election agitation. Please support the inclusion in agenda 4846. Please vote. [[11:36:41]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. The factions, please. 69 - Fatherland, Party of Regions - 1, Impact - 32, 3 - Economic Development, 25 - Sovereign European Ukraine - 25, 34 - Freedom, 0 - Company, non-fractional - 30. Dear colleagues, I'm asking you in the Company, in the faction of the Regions: do you have only shadow money that you don't want them to be transparent, schematics, party funding and election agitation? Well, this is a serious application to the Henprosecutor's Office, your honor. I ask, my fellow Members, once again to support inclusion, I stress the inclusion in the agenda of the daily project of amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts on transparency, stressing the financing of political parties in Ukraine and pre-election agitation. Let's talk about it, I'll give it to everyone. Please support inclusion in the agenda. We're not discussing this, please vote! [[11:37:51]] For 223 Better. But the decision is not made. 223 for. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please. I feel like I need to exchange my thoughts. Please, People's Deputy Miroshnichenko, Freedom.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m0.u79	Igor Miroshnichenko, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear voters! Dear Ukrainians! We see very well how this Parliament wants to finance itself with transparency and pursue an honest and open policy with regard to the Ukrainian people. In the All-Ukrainian Union, Freedom has a program to protect Ukrainians, which clearly states that financing parties, an electoral campaign, should be extremely transparent. And we're demonstrating our transparency by giving out all the 35 votes that we now have in the faction, so that this financing of the parties, the election campaigns, is transparent. But we remember very well that there are people in this session room who don't want to open up their property or open up their assets, manipulate the transparency of the financing of the elections, both in terms of themselves and in terms of others, and that's why it's too much to confirm that this Parliament needs immediate release, but elections -- on a new basis so that the rats in the next parliament who are sitting today don't go through it. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m0.u80	Please, Deputy Martínjuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m0.u81	Dear colleagues! Well, first of all, I would like to remind you of the rule of the Rules that, when changes to the agenda of the day session are included, it takes place under a reduced procedure, this is provided for in the Rules. That's what the inclusion initiator says, 2 goes for, 2 goes against. So the presiding officer has no right to deprive the deputies if they have a wish to speak, to speak. That's the first one. The other one. There is no real response from the chairman that someone does not want to change. First of all, it's a populist law that simply rewrites those changes, those articles that are in the current law on public organizations, where every political party is obliged to report annually, and that's all in the laws on election of deputies, local councils, election of deputies to the Supreme Council -- national deputies, election of the President of Ukraine, all of these rules are in the Rules. It's just another time someone wants to fight.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m0.u82	People's Deputy Capplin.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m0.u83	Respectful colleagues, respected Ukrainians, in just one country in the world are popularized with the concept of political corruption. Political corruption, which is produced primarily by individual political forces. We have several factions in the Supreme Council of Ukraine that are fed from a bad "Cremle trough." That is why 23 years of age are involved. For 23 years, Ukrainian statehood has been destroyed. For 23 years, the belt is extended, not to the belly, but to the neck of the Ukrainian people, and today they refuse to follow the Ukrainian President, who conducted his campaign in a transparent manner and showed the whole of Ukraine. He carried out his campaign on his own and showed Ukraine every bracelet spent on the campaign to support the bill. Shame on the Communists! Shame on the regionals! Shame on all who hide their money and themselves.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m0.u84	People's deputy Yatzenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m0.u85	Dear colleagues. Unfortunately, this practice in Parliament has been that when the law doesn't pass, any one of them immediately goes, "you have to disband the council," "bad council," "there are rats" there on the council and so on. I am speaking first of all to all the majors of Ukraine who are in this room today -- 225 deputies who are elected by people who are constantly working so that they don't have to go through all of these conversations and vote on any related, so-called elections, on a so-called proportional basis and so on. When there are lovers, drivers, money, partners, and so on. I mean, we understand why it's happening, and I'm going to do it again. There is no law to support a change in the electoral system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m0.u86	I'm going to remind a respected colleague who doesn't want to vote that this law concerns transparency of party funding and pre-election agitation. No matter what electoral law is passed. And transparency, that's a very important question. Please, one minute Chechtev, then Fatherland, Chevchenko. And we're done. Out of place, please, come on, it's not. Turn on the microphone. Time for the damage. Let's get started.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m0.u87	Dear Alexander Valentinovich, distinguished national MPs! The faction of the Party of the Regions advocates transparency in the financing of the electoral campaign. Because it's a sign of the democracy of society. But this bill proposes to introduce a party report on property and income that needs to be submitted to the Ministry of Justice. We believe that the project proposes to empower the Ministry of Justice to carry out financial audits that are linked to the powers of the Tax Service. There is a specific agency that must carry out this work professionally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m0.u88	Dear colleagues, I'll remind you that we're talking about joining the agenda. The law can be adjusted for the second reading. Please, National Deputy Shevchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m0.u89	Dear colleagues, let's lower the emotional level of discussion a little bit. I'll explain what this is about. This year, during the presidential campaign, for the first time in Ukrainian history, presidential candidates were elected voluntarily before the elections, at the expense of which they gathered election funds. They did it voluntarily. Now this law proposes to make it an automatic, legal order. A representative of the Communist Party is deceiving us. Now there are no such rules in the law in force. This is a law that will legitimize the right of citizens to know at what cost electoral campaigns are financed. And not after the election, but before the election. So that, by going to the polling station, every person would know very well, at the expense of whose funds the candidates for the Presidents, the candidates for the positions of city heads, and the political parties. One of the problems with Ukrainian reality right now is that politics is too expensive, not transparent and corrupt. We need to support this bill. It is supported by the public, supported by Ukrainian citizens, supported without any buts.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m0.u90	Dear colleagues, I would very much ask that we be determined. Just one minute for the author of Oleg Tuggnibok's law. Let's hear it and figure it out.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m0.u91	Thank you. Oleg Tuggnibok, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. I would like to say that the actual co-authority of this law belongs to active representatives of the public who monitor the electoral process. And this is very important. And for all those who apparently did not read the bill, it says to themselves that someone seems to want to talk about the quality of the proportional lists. I would like to point out that this bill does not refer solely to the obligation to publish financial reports, the arrival and use of election funds until the day of the vote. In fact, this bill will allow us to overcome what is called political corruption in the Ukrainian state. This is a typical European law. A law that must exist in a civilized country. And since we are ahead of the election, it would be very logical if we voted for it. What's more, society, I appeal to you, now it's an exclusive agenda. Let's talk about what's not right, let's get to the consensus and definitely vote. It's a community requirement.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m0.u92	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'm asking you to take your seats. Colleagues, I'm on my way to the gallery. Ladies and gentlemen, let's go to our jobs, and we will now demonstrate that Parliament is fighting political corruption and supporting a transparent funding scheme for all political forces. I ask the secretariat to make an announcement so that all the national deputies can enter the session hall. Please, Alexander Ivanovich, an important question very much, please support. And now support the bill (registration number 4846) amending certain legislative acts (to ensure transparency in financing political parties in Ukraine and pre-election agitation). Ladies and gentlemen, please support the inclusion in the agenda. Please vote. [[11:47:42]] For 230 Decision taken. The factions, please. 78 – Fatherland, Party of Regions – 2, Impact – 37, Economic Development – 10, Sovereign European Ukraine – 29, Freedom – 34.0 – CPU, non-fractional – 40. Thank you to the national MPs who are fighting political corruption. Please, Your Honor, the following question is registered number 4075a: draft Act amending article 4 of the Ukrainian Law on the Transfer of Objects of State and Municipal Property (for pre-primary educational institutions). Please support inclusion in the agenda. Please vote. [[11:48:38]] For 293 Decision taken. The next question is registration number 4151a. This is a draft law amending some Ukrainian legislation on the settlement of individual issues in the market for liquor products. Please, Your Honor, prepare for the vote, first of all to those who are most likely to enter the parliamentary buffet. Please, Your Honor, support inclusion in the agenda. [[11:49:25]] For 255 Decision taken. Next question, Your Honor. The factions? Please, by the factions. Parenthood – 46, Party of Regions – 35, 30 – Impact, 29 – Economic Development, 27 – Sovereign European Ukraine, 31 – Freedom, 18 – Company, non-fractional – 39. Dear colleagues, next question. Registration number 4672. Draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine to improve energy bills. Ladies and gentlemen, please identify yourself as a member of the agenda for our session. 4671, please vote. [[11:50:22]] For 216 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Parenthood - 65, Regions - 39, 2 - Impact, 31 - Economic Development, Sovereign European Ukraine - 14 33 - Freedom, Company - 0, non-fractional - 32. Dear colleagues, once again? Please, I'm asking the profile committee, or the author. Who's the author? National Deputy Corge, please comment on the law for one minute, perhaps not all deputies have been cleared.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m0.u93	I'm asking you to uphold this law, it's aimed at the ability to calculate and for. And it's supported by the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m0.u94	Dear colleagues, there are various opinions that the committee has supported, that the committee has not considered. Colleagues, at your request, let's do it again, I remind you, we're putting it in the order of the day, in the order of the day. Please identify yourself as to the inclusion in the agenda of 4672d (deputy). Yes, please, colleagues, please vote for inclusion in the agenda. [[11:51:52]] For 206 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. 59 - Fatherland, Party of Regions - 42, 2 - Impact, Economic Development - 30, 14 - Sovereign European Ukraine, 33 - Freedom, KPU - 0, non-fractional - 26. The next question, my fellow Members, is the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine (for licensing imports of active pharmaceutical ingredients) Please, Your Honor, (4739) for inclusion in the agenda. Please vote. [[11:52:44]] For 241 Decision taken. The next question, colleagues (registration number 4143a) is a draft decree marking the 25th anniversary of the National Movement of Ukraine for Reconstruction. Dear colleagues, please support the inclusion of the draft decision in the agenda. Please vote. [[11:53:25]] For 208 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Now, 72 is Fatherland, 0 is Region, 35 is Impact, 18 is Economic Development, 28 is Sovereign European Ukraine, 33 is Freedom, the Company is 0 is non-fractional, 22. Dear colleagues! It's a historical event, the movement that was created, you remember, in the process of rebuilding. And it was, indeed, an event in the history of our Ukraine. Fellows, let's still support the inclusion of this decision in the order of the day, and let's celebrate. I'm saying this again, it's not about a particular party that today is among the registered parties, but it's about that political event that's become very important in the history of gaining our country's independence. Colleagues, please support inclusion in the agenda. Please vote. [[11:54:31]] For 217 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. 73 - Fatherland, Party of Regions - 1, 36 - Impact, 18 - Economic Development, 30 - Sovereign European Ukraine, 33 - Freedom, Company - 0, non-fractional - 26. Please give the author one minute and let's move on.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m0.u95	Oleg Lazko. Dear colleagues! We all remember the turbulent years of the 1990s when Ukraine chose independence, the Ukrainian People's Movement for Reconstruction -- it was the most powerful, multimillion-dollar organization that chose Ukraine's independence. Today, the Pentecostals, who were in their 50 ’ s, were the most massive organizations in Ukraine, elected this independence. And today, at 23 years of independence, 24, we don't vote in favour of this epochal date and this epochal structure at all. It wasn't a party, maybe some of the deputies don't understand, but the National Movement of Ukraine for Reconstruction is not a party. The Ukrainian People's Movement "For Reconstruction" is a national movement of Ukrainians who have chosen their independence. If we, the Ukrainian Parliament, remember the exploits of our heroes, my predecessors, I will forgive you for voting for this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m0.u96	Dear colleagues, I would like to give Boris Tarasyuk a word to the man who was, as well as to the national deputy of Yavorowski, who were among those who founded this organization. Please, Boris Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m0.u97	Thank you. Dear colleagues! I urge you to vote for the political power that has changed our state, which has led to the emergence of a new democratic Ukraine. Dear friends, by voting in favour of this decree, we pay tribute to the proper creation of the political power that has actually set the beginning of a new independent Ukrainian state. Once again, I urge everyone to vote in favour of this draft decree, which we joined with Alexander Blackwolf. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m0.u98	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you that the People's Movement for Reconstruction was really not a party, but a public organization, it was created by the Ukrainian Writers' Association, which made a great deal of effort to create it. And I would like to give the floor to the writer of the People's Deputy of Jabor. Please stand, let's say, in its original source of the People's Movement.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m0.u99	Vladimir Yavorowski, Troastina Dear colleagues, I was the head of the organizational committee for the meeting. I just want to remind you, it really was such a super-historic event. Because it is the people’s movements in the Baltic, Poland, that have created independent countries in other countries. That's what they did. It was. There was a unique gathering, there are many people here, and the freemen who took part in it, it was really a public organization. And maybe the main mistake of the Movement was that it's the best, it's my opinion, the best thing if it remained a public organization. It was then attended by us, first elected by the people’s deputies of the Soviet Union. By the way, we've been talking about money today, so party costs, I'll remind you that I've spent an election in Kiev. He became a national deputy to 69 rubles and became a national deputy. They were the most honest choices there could have been.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m0.u100	Dear colleagues, National Deputy Rosenko. Come on. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m0.u101	Paul Rosenco, Vitaly Caller's Faction. Indeed, you know, there was a young student at the KPI Palace of Culture when the National Movement of Ukraine, as indeed a national movement, was formed. This structure, which for the first time, for example, has been put at such a serious official level by such questions of government creation in Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, we are going through a very difficult process in Ukraine, once again, with the creation of an independent state, so let us not forget that. I understand, the Communist faction, they were fighting independence, they're doing it today, they're going against Ukraine's independence. But, Party of Regions, it was the People's Movement of Ukraine that created this state and gave you the opportunity to sit here in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Support today's opportunity to celebrate, indeed, this great event, the creation of the Universal Movement of Ukraine, a national one.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m0.u102	Thank you. The Vitov People's Deputy. Guys, let's make a decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m0.u103	Anatoly Vitov, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. "Freedom" clearly supports the adoption of this law. Most of the volunteers, including me, stood there and were the founders of that movement in the early 1990s. We were worthy of the Movement, we were members of the Movement, we stood still, I remember the first conventions of the Movement that changed Ukraine. And great praise to those people who started, who were all of them. It was the great public movement that Ukraine needs now to change Ukraine. And we clearly demand the support of all deputies, to unite around the goal that the first - century motorists set for themselves: to build an independent and free Ukraine. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m0.u104	Thank you. Dear colleagues, there is still a proposal that we should be able to consolidate and support this project, so that none of those who did not vote in favour of this decision, which is not about advertising a particular political party, let's change the title in the project to celebrate the 25th anniversary of the creation of the public organization "The People's Movement of Ukraine for Reconstruction" (this was the full name of a public organization). Let's keep it that way. Hanna Herman wants to support this project. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m0.u105	Dear Mr. Head, if we change the name if we do "to maintain the celebration of the National Movement of Ukraine founded by Viacheslav Chernobyl", it will be a clear signal and people will know what it is. And we'll be ready to support such a project.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m0.u106	I see. Dear colleagues, no. Proposal: "a public organization founded by Viacheslav Cnervol". Although he was not the only one to be the founder at the time. There were many founders, colleagues, but so was he. That's why we're writing, "The People's Movement of Ukraine for Reconstruction," 25 years. That's the format, okay? All right, good fellows. Please. Colleagues, let's back up! Well, the national deputy of Zurabski, he's mobilizing the hall now with his speech. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m0.u107	Dear colleagues! It's not about O.R.P., O.R.P., it's about movement as a party. It's not KUN, it's about people who were near the origins of the Ukrainian independent state. I urge all my colleagues to support this idea. We will bow low to those near the sources of the Ukrainian independent congregational state. And today, the days leading up to those events in the East especially need to be demonstrated: loyalty to the founders and founders of the Ukrainian State. Please support this motion for a ruling. Please support me.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m0.u108	Dear colleagues, please take your seats. Taking into account the change that this is a celebration, not a party, but a public organization called the People's Movement of Ukraine, "To be rebuilt!".. Dear colleagues, please support the draft of Decree 4143a for inclusion in the agenda. Please, dear fellows. [[12:03:29]] For 242 Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. And let's put it on the ground as a whole. Is it supported? Right on the ground and in general. Dear colleagues, let's not break up! Or they're all on break. On the basis and in general. Please support the project. [[12:03:54]] For 238. Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. The factions, please. 75 – Fatherland – Region 3, 37 – Impact, 23 – Economic Development, Sovereign European Ukraine – 30, 34 – Freedom, 0 – Company, 36 – non-fractional. Colleagues, we haven't announced the break yet, and everyone's gone: the reflex is working. Colleagues, in connection with the inspiration with which the MPs ran to the buffet, announce a break of half an hour — up to 12 hours, 35 minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m0.u109	Dear colleagues, please take your seats. The staff of the secretariat are requested to make an announcement in the towers of the Supreme Council and, above all, in the buffet of the Supreme Council, and to invite all the national deputies to the session hall. Dear colleagues, there are many questions that we need to discuss with you and make appropriate and responsible decisions. Please take your seats. Please invite the national deputies to the session room. Dear colleagues! We begin to work without considering that we have problems with the discipline of many national deputies. I'll remind you that right now we need to consider with you and make decisions on the issues that have already been discussed in the session room. And from which we just have to determine how to vote. First question. It refers to the draft Decree on Ukraine's enforcement of paragraph 9 of the European Court of Human Rights ruling in case No. 21722/11 "Alexandar Volkov v. Ukraine" of 9 January 2013. I'll remind you that this is a question we've discussed several times. But it is the Supreme Council's duty to enforce the decision of the European Court of Human Rights. And I would ask that we have support from this issue. I'd like to ask the author of the project, Vlasenek, one minute. To remind you of the content of the draft regulation.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m0.u110	Thank you, Reverend Alexander Valentinovich. Indeed, it is the only decision of the European Court that the Supreme Council of Ukraine must directly execute. Since only the Supreme Council of Ukraine can resume office, as stated in the judgment of the European Court of Justice, to reinstate Alexander Volkova as judge of the Supreme Court of Ukraine. But since there are probably no people in the room right now, the number of people required to vote, I would like to ask, Alexander Valentine's Day, to postpone consideration of this issue. So that we don't look, well, not exactly consistent. Because only a few days ago the signing of the Association Agreement was completed, and here the Supreme Council will demonstrate its refusal to comply with the European Court’s decision. So I'd like to ask you to postpone this consideration to another day when there will be enough people in the room to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m0.u111	Dear colleagues, I beg you, we can no longer ask this question. Because we appear to be inconsistent, and we look undisciplined by national deputies who do not carry out their constitutional duties. And I'm asking you, Your Honor, to support the draft decision. I would like to remind you (register 4446) of the implementation of the European Court of Human Rights ruling. Please, Your Honor, it is our duty to ensure the execution of the rulings of the European Court, regardless of whether we like this candidate for a judge or not. Please support the vote as a whole. [[12:41:42]] For-137 The decision is not taken. Next question. By faction, by the way, show discipline. 56 – Fatherland, I would also like to ask the representative of Fatherland, who spoke with the deputies and colleagues, to talk about organization of work. Region Party 2, Impact – 17, Economic Development – 0, Sovereign European Ukraine – 14, Freedom – 30, Company – 0, non-fractional – 18. Dear colleagues, the following question is the draft Approval Order of the Regulations on the Accreditation of Journalists and Technicians of the media at the Supreme Council of Ukraine. As a reminder, Derevyanko, a national deputy, reported on the project. I'd like to ask the head of the Committee of Tomenko to remind you of the content of this project.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m0.u112	Dear colleagues, during the discussion, we emphasized that we have, due to technical circumstances, that the Information Act clearly provides that the procedure for accreditation of parliamentary journalists must be determined by a document approved by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And we're doing this in accordance with the Information Act. But it's not about formal approaches, it's about meaningful. So this is what happened to us today that we have parliamentary correspondents most of whom we know and perform not one year, they're doing two accreditations when they're highlighting the activities of the Supreme Council in plenary mode, and when they're highlighting the activities of the Supreme Council in committee and factions. That's why we're bringing up the only denominator. And if this person has been accredited and is a parliamentary correspondent, it's quite obvious that he has the opportunity to work on both the committee and the faction with this accreditation. That is why most of those who do.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m0.u113	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m0.u114	Most speakers clearly pointed to the need to adopt such a bill. We have one moment -- we need to make a decision, Alexander Valentinovich. We have two ways here. We have one kind of military repair, it's a military amendment or, more specifically, a military bill, which is our reaction to the inadequate disclosure of Ukraine by several Russian channels that are already off the grid, and we on the committee have decided that we have the right to temporarily suspend the accreditation of journalists from those television channels or media that we already have in court with Nacradia's decisions, so we are excluded from air and cable language as anti-Ukrainian and those that fuel international hostility. We need to do this: or, for example, in the first reading, vote and add this norm, or adopt it as a whole, or settle another law.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m0.u115	Please, National Deputy Miroshnichenko, 1 minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m0.u116	Igor Miroshnichenko, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Our faction will certainly support the new order of accreditation of journalists in the Supreme Council with little warning. I've already said that we have over 2,000 journalists accredited to the Supreme Council, and we very much hope that the simplified procedure for accessing the Supreme Council's towers will allow us to work together with professional journalists, not those who are just sitting around here and solving their issues. But most importantly, and I support the head of the committee here -- this is, however, a further consideration of our decision, which, according to my own authority, Alexander Mirny, is about temporarily suspending the accreditation of Russian media journalists, which is actually today, during the war with the Russian Federation, the open spies and the Kremlin agents. Today, when there is a war, we must do everything we can to prevent the distortion of information and these spies from entering the higher legislative body of Ukraine. And I'd like to immediately consider this decision, which.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m0.u117	Please, National Deputy Herman, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m0.u118	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to pay attention to the phrase, "The journalists here who dress up and solve their problems" is unacceptable. I realize that some MPs are so strange about journalists that they've confirmed their actions, but I'm asking everyone not to insult journalists accredited to the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m0.u119	Dear colleagues, there is a proposal made by the chairman of the committee, Mikola Tomenko, that we should now take the basis and then be determined on the whole vote. Dear colleagues, please take your seats. Colleagues, pay attention! And to prepare for the vote, once again, I remind you, this is the draft decree approving the position on the accreditation of journalists and media technicians to the Supreme Council, 2252a as a basis. Please, dear fellows, in your first reading. [[12:47:21]] For 228 Decision taken. The factions, please. 68 - Fatherland, Regions - 4, 31 - Impact, Economic Development - 24, 24 - Sovereign European Ukraine, Freedom - 33, 16 - Company, non-fractional - 28. I'm asking you to turn on Mikola Tomenko's microphone to suggest a further decision on this issue.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m0.u120	Dear colleagues, we've consulted with colleagues who have drafted a bill that deals with exclusions from accreditation rights, or, say, the procedure for disbarring accreditation. I would like to stress that there's a procedure for how to do this, and so I think that we have every reason to vote in general right now. And, Alexander Valentine's Day, I'm asking you, as much as possible, maybe on Thursday to set up a decree for colleagues of Peace and Peace, and we'll react to the situation that has been faced with the fact that there are journalists of Russian media who are actually fuelling international hostility, setting countries apart, peoples, against each other on a systemic basis. Therefore, the proposal is now in general, and the decision of the colleagues of Peacekeeper and Peacemaker to put it on Thursday and we will support it by voting.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m0.u121	I understand the offer, my dear fellows, to raise these two questions, to raise these two issues was an offer. Adam Martinyuk, National Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m0.u122	Thank you, Martinyuk, the Communist faction. I would like to make one more point, because the ambiguous position of the head of the committee, on the one hand, he suggested that, if I got it right, the second one, the last one was about to take this decision, which we voted for as a basis and as a whole, without making any changes to the vote. If that's true, we're ready to support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m0.u123	Yes, the committee head confirms this position. Please, Your Honor, support the draft regulation (registration number 2252a) on the accreditation of journalists, media technicians at the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a whole. Please vote. [[12:49:58]] For 239. Decision taken. Dear colleagues! Next question of the draft Decision marking the 700th anniversary of the mosque-medrese of Khan Uzbek, project (4095). Dear colleagues! This is about the historical heritage of Ukraine, and there is no political position here for my conviction, so I ask everyone to support the draft decree marking the 700th anniversary of Khan Uzbek's mosque is an important historical heritage and acquisition of our country. Please vote (4095) as a whole. Vote please, Your Honor. [[12:51:02]] For 251 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, the following question concerns the draft Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine (as regards the transfer of garden and tax homes to housing and the registration of their residences). Dear colleagues, I remember we were unable to vote on this issue and asked to return to it, and I want to ask Parliament about the willingness to return. But this can only be determined by a vote, I ask the honourable colleagues to vote on the return to decision-making on question 2336a. Please, Your Honor, please make up your mind. [[12:51:59]] For 267 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, please support the first reading, that is, on the basis of Project 2336a. Please vote in the first, not in the first. Please, I can see a few hands. Very many hands, let's do two in favour, two in the opposite. Please, National Deputy Shevchenko "The Fatherland"
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m0.u124	I want to encourage my colleagues to support this bill, what is it? In fact, we have hundreds of thousands of Ukrainians now living in garden houses, in nursing homes, without fully exercising all those rights, like all other Ukrainians. This means that they cannot, for example, vote for their place of residence, bring them a letter, even a telegram, when their relatives are notified of their death. So it's about balancing rights with all the other citizens of Ukraine, hundreds of thousands of people who are now living in garden houses, in tax homes. In Kiev, "Russian Gardens" are tens of thousands of people who can't exercise rights, like all other Chinese people who are deprived of the opportunity to participate fully in these elections and in other community lives. So I urge you to support this bill. I know that hundreds of thousands of people living in such houses thank the Ukrainian Parliament. It's a decision that's long overdue, and we have to make a law with the realities of life.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m0.u125	Dear colleagues, please, the National MP of the Martínks.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m0.u126	Ruslan Marcinkov, All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. "Freedom" will, of course, support this law in the first reading, but we in the working group have proposed that there be no speculation and possibility of transferring tax homes to multistory, of withdrawing the changes to the Earth Code completely, and the author of the bill has agreed. Unfortunately, there is no protocol for this, so I am asking the author to necessarily support this right now, and the faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Association will vote if the issue of changes to the Earth Code is completely removed. And the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union will support today's citizens of garden and tax homes to register, have the opportunity to receive medical care, have the opportunity to actually exercise their constitutional right today. Moreover, it is usually the retirement age of people who are living today, who have passed their homes on to their children. So the faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union is ready to support this bill. But no change to Earth.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m0.u127	National MP Martinyuk, I understand, from the Company.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m0.u128	Thank you. Martinyuk, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, we have discussed this bill in detail with you, and at the same time, from our faction, we have heard these warnings, which I want to say now. This is indeed true of article 35, article 50, of the Codex earth. Regrettably, it was suggested that the building could be done on the land of recreation. As far as we know, I'd like the authors to confirm that they're taking those articles -- 35th and 50th. If these articles are really taken away, we have no reason not to vote in favour of a bill that will actually serve so that people who have the opportunity to live in a given house have the possibility of both political rights and other political rights. Then we'll back him up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m0.u129	Please, People's Deputy Shipko from the copyright team.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m0.u130	Dear Alexander Valentinovich, distinguished colleagues! We have indeed held three meetings and a committee, and a working table with invitations and the public, and all the deputies of the Supreme Council. And we, in fact, as the authors of the bill, as well as 18 coauthors, made the decision to clean up article 50 and article 35. And I'm stressing this, and I'm asking everyone to support our citizens, because the bill is very much in store, and we'll look at it in a second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m0.u131	Dear colleagues, I understand the position of the authors. Let's support the first reading, i.e. the bill's draft registration number 2336a, taking into account the sounding position of the author's team, which was urged by the national MPs in their speeches. Please support the base of 2336a. Please vote. [[12:57:03]] For 266 Decision taken. Dear colleagues. By factions, please show me. "Fatherhood" – 63, "Regions" – 26, 35 – Impact", "Economic Development" – 28, "North European Ukraine" – 15, 33 – "Freedom", 18 – KPU, non-fractional – 48. Turn on the microphone of the people's MP Martinyuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m0.u132	Thank you. Martinyuk, faction of the Ukrainian Company. Dear colleagues, if the warnings that we've been talking about (about the Earth Code) are withdrawn, if the committee and colleagues don't deny it, I suggest that we accept it as a whole, because there's nothing to work on.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m0.u133	Dear colleagues, please, come on, we're not discussing this! We still have a lot of problems that need to be solved right at the legislative level, especially one of them is the Education Act, which we need to adopt with you. I'm begging you, colleagues! Now, let's talk about the bill. Colleagues, we must also now make a decision on the start of the next parliamentary session. Let me remind you, we have to start our next parliamentary session on September 1st, when I'm right. In order for it to work effectively, we need to adopt a calendar plan for the fifth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the seventh call. Colleagues, it's a work question, it doesn't need to be included in the agenda. I want to ask. ask you, we can, we've discussed these issues with factions' leaders, and. Can we vote, please? [[B in m in s a l in]] National MP Sobolev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m0.u134	Sobolev, the Fatherland faction. The honourable colleagues, unfortunately, did not take into account the Parliamentary Assembly, and this is a delegation of 12 people from Ukraine, and two questions about Ukraine will be: a humanitarian disaster and monitoring. The session from 29 to 3 is exactly, and we have our plenary. If you can this week, there are two consecutive weeks in October, if you can, from September 29th to October 3rd, the last week, from October 27th to 31. And then it all fits together. Just so 12 of our colleagues don't miss a session.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m0.u135	The offer made by the Popescu People’s Deputy also comes down to this. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m0.u136	Thank you. Sand, head of the Permanent Delegation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to Paris I really support my colleague Sobolev's offer. Moreover, I would like to remind you that on May 25, I wrote a letter on behalf of the delegation to consider this proposal. So we ask that the week – September 29th to October 3rd – not be plenary. In order to be able to participate fully in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, where, indeed, the issue of Ukraine will be considered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m0.u137	Dear colleagues, with the offer of a replacement for the plenary and not a plenary week, so that our colleagues can take part in the work of PARJA and ask us to support it. But once again, the leader of the strike faction wants to make one more suggestion. Please, Vitaly Kowalczuk. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m0.u138	Vitaly Kowalczuk, Vitaly Klick Faction. Dear Alexander Valentinovich! Dear colleagues! We propose before voting on the draft decree on the calendar plan for the 5th session of the Supreme Council, yet consider the issue, for starters, of the continuation of the 4th session of the Supreme Council, as we have highlighted and discussed at the Conciliation Council on Friday. But let's start off by figuring out that we're going to be working without a break by the end of August of this year, and then we're going to be able to figure out what we're doing at the 5th session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m0.u139	Dear colleagues, I am convinced that no one is denying continuous work and this is, colleagues, and we will vote. The next issue is the ruling that relates to Parliament’s work regime, the subsequent work regime, until September 1. Therefore, honourable colleagues, taking into account the proposal to take into account the work of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, i.e. to replace one plenary week and not a plenary week. Please, Your Honor, support the project, draft Decree (registration number 4197a) - on the calendar of the 5th session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please vote, Your Honor, on the basis and in general. [[13:02:14]] For 308. Constitutional majority. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, now referred to by the representative of the Strike faction, more specifically is the next draft of the decision to hold, continue, forgive, the work of the 4th session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine 7 vocations. Taking into account the situation in the east of Ukraine when there is a real danger to our country, when our military guards defend the sovereignty and territorial integrity of our country. In these circumstances, honourable colleagues certainly do not have the right to rest and must work continuously, continuously. [[Applause]] Thus, this issue was discussed at the meeting of the leaders of the MP factions and groups. And in view of the need for the continuity of Parliament's work, the decision has been made to close the fourth session of the Supreme Council, that is, the session that is currently taking place on the day of the opening of the new session, which is September 1. There's no objection to that? I won't. So until September 1st we continue. And September 1st opens immediately, on the same day, the next session. And that's how we ensure continuity. Underlining, the continuity of the work of the Supreme Council. Now, honourable colleagues, we need to discuss a proposal that has also been discussed regarding the format of work during this time. There were two suggestions, respected colleagues, and one received more support. Here's the deal. What we have is that we cannot predict the need for a sessional regime to be gathered, and that is why Parliament, working in committees and districts, entrusts the Head of the Supreme Council with the necessary time to gather parliament for important decisions. But the MPs insisted that several dates should be set for our meetings, for our sessions, for our work in session mode. This is related to questions and constitutional changes that I hope we can still come up with, and other questions that need to be prepared. And that is why is the suggestion that, in addition to the possibility that the Chief of the Supreme Council convenes Parliament, is it necessary for such a meeting to take place on the 24th of July of the session of the Supreme Council, on 14 August 2014, and for others, on the basis of the decision of the Head of the Supreme Council? Dear colleagues, in this format? Colleagues? National MP Zharavsky, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m0.u140	Dear colleagues! I fully support the speaker of our Parliament. There's a war coming. No vacations for Parliament, no holidays for the government. It's just a requirement of people. On Sundays, I met the mothers of a 95 - car crew in Zitomir. They demand it. Our children are at war, why you're going on vacation. No vacation. The proposal of the Chief of Staff should be supported. But, Alexander Valentine's Day, the request, before voting any decree, the document must be handed down to the deputies. He's not on his hands, unfortunately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m0.u141	Dear colleagues, we can vote on the project. Please, National Deputy Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m0.u142	Sobolev, the Fatherland faction. Alexander Valentinovich, there, first, not September 1st, but September 2nd. Because this is the first Tuesday under the Constitution when the next session opens. September 1st is Monday. So to make it clear then, September 2nd, for example, close the previous one and open the new one, that's September 2nd. About, uh, picking up for one day. So let's say we can define weeks when they're plenary. And then it's much more rapid, and it's very clear how the agenda is being prepared, not for one day, but for example, to prepare a clear understanding of when the week is working. Perhaps you will announce these working weeks directly.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m0.u143	Dear colleagues, please, National MP Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m0.u144	Martinyuk, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. Dear Alexander Valentinovich, and I am addressing the leaders of factions and groups who met on Friday at the Conciliation Meeting when we considered the matter. As I understand it, all the leaders of factions and groups agreed with the very principle that is now being proposed. What we talked about at the time was that, really, it's worth setting a few specific dates so that some don't have itching about the fact that the Supreme Council doesn't work for 30 days. Because there are two specific dates here, and I think it's going to be absolutely right. Let us vote unanimously for this proposal. And that will be the answer of the Supreme Council to the situation that we are in with you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m0.u145	Dear colleagues, the only thing I'm going to do right now is get into the calendar, really, Tuesday is September 2. And so the request that we write on September 2nd that continuity be the work of Parliament. Please, Oleg Pullibok.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m0.u146	Oleg Tuggnibok, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Respectable society, well, first. The Freedoms faction supports the "Paternity" proposal that not one day be defined as plenary, but as a whole week. And the second. You know, I have this idea, don't let anyone get angry or offended, but there's an offer to go to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and cancel all foreign passports, including diplomatic passports, for Ukrainian national MPs. So there's no wish in this terrible situation when we're at war with Moscow, somewhere to go, and it's impossible to warm up on the seas. And only issue diplomatic passports when there is official shipping from the Ukrainian Parliament. And that's the right thing to do, and that's the right thing to do. And we need to work, we're fighting a war. And we all need to conquer the Kremlin’s enemy, who is now occupying Ukraine. And we're going to win! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m0.u147	Please, Your Honor, National Deputy Kowalczuk, Strike.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m0.u148	Vitaly Kowalczuk, Vitaly Klick Faction. We are grateful to the factions of Fatherland and the Freedom faction for their support of our position today, which we announced during the factions, on the basis of what we should clearly establish: the plenary week we work, the plenary week, one week in the districts, one week in the committees. I propose to vote for this very schedule of work of the Supreme Council. In addition, it does not rule out that the Head of the Supreme Council may in any event convene an extraordinary meeting of the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m0.u149	People's MP Litwin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m0.u150	Dear Head, dear colleagues! Obviously, there is no need to compete in the fact that someone loves the people more, but we must follow the calendar plan. If we continue the session: a week of plenary meetings, a week of committee work, a week of work directly in the districts. At the same time, dear colleagues, our group has proposed a draft Order for the Invocation of Ukrainian National Deputies to military - bound congregations. Let's take a look at this decision, and vote it, then, given that, we'll figure out when we need to work, and that's the right thing to do. So let's do it this way. Instruct the Regulatory Committee to prepare a draft decision and vote on it at the evening session. And in order for everyone to vote for it, we all want to protect the country, let's do it in practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m0.u151	Dear colleagues who still have patriotic initiatives, please let us discuss them. I'm asking you, Your Honor, we're not discussing this issue right now, we've discussed it more faithfully, and representatives of all factions have actually spoken. The factions of the regions, please, did not come from the factions of the regions, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m0.u152	Dear colleagues, the Matvienkov faction of regions. The faction of the regions has discussed this issue, and we are ready to work as long as necessary this time. The second most important thing is to make this work so powerful. That is why we support the option that we need to work for two fixed weeks, but we would very much like to consider in these two weeks really those bills that are not on duty that we are about to receive. And those bills that will affect the economy, the defence, the life, most importantly, our voters, that's why we're willing to work in the daytime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m0.u153	Dear colleagues, once again, we have discussed this issue with you, a proposal made by representatives of MP groups and factions. The first is not until September 1st, but until September 2nd, the fifth session of the Supreme Council of the Seventh Call opens, which is the first change. And the second change, we work in committees and districts, we just work, overseas districts, I remind you, there are no deputies. So the proposal was about limiting movement outside the country, which is a constructive proposal. Why? Because when you commission a parliamentary session during the period of time, deputies should be in Ukraine to be able to meet during the period. And the situation, you can see how tense and our position should be responsible, and by the way, those challenges facing Parliament, in front of all of Ukraine, is the first. As for the format change, it's supported, not the day, but the sessional week, I look at the calendar and I can record it from July 22 to 25 and August 12 to 16. Understand? With these changes in mind, please support the project on the basis and in general, please vote. For the continued work of the Supreme Council, no weekends and no holidays. [[13:13:48]] For 288 Decision taken. Please, by the factions. Parenthood – 71, Party of Regions – 21, 36 – Impact, Economic Development – 28, 30 – Sovereign European Ukraine, 34 – Freedom, 20 – Company, non-fractional – 48. The only colleagues I'm paying attention to are the sessional weeks that have been stressed by the speakers, so we don't have session weeks when we have 50 or 60 national deputies in our room. There must be 450 national deputies in the hall, and then it is really a responsibility to the people of Ukraine for what the Supreme Council does. Dear colleagues! I ask you, we now have a very important question, honourable colleagues, which was also discussed by speakers, which was emphasized not only by MPs, but also by the scientific, educational community -- this is a long-suffering Higher Education Act (new edition) (second reading). We agreed that the first of the clusters of questions that we would consider related to the second reading. [[Applause]] I invite you to the Parliamentary Chamber, Lilia Mikhailnovna Grinevich, distinguished colleagues, to remind you of the procedure of the second reading itself. Please, Lilia Mikhailvna.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m0.u154	Dear colleagues! Dear Alexander Valentinovich! Today, in our second reading, we are considering (1187-2) the Bill on Higher Education, introduced by Victor Balogo. Between the first and the second readings we got 959 amendments and I can report that this bill has become even more systematic and important for Ukraine. Ukraine needs systemic changes. We have the opportunity today to adopt such a law that offers real reform in the field of higher education. When we've processed all the observations of the Legal Authority, given these observations, I'm asking you now to read under the transcript some changes to the comparative table in the editorial column after the changes discussed by the Committee on Education and Science. Thus, to complete part five of article 13 of the bill with a new paragraph and thus to ensure that the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine fulfils its functions (in paws) "in cases where the decision-making of the central executive body in the field of education and science under this law requires the approval of the national agency to ensure the quality of higher education the central executive body in the field of education and science has the right to make its own decisions if the national agency for quality assurance of higher education has failed to fulfil its mandate in the terms defined by legislation." Part three of article 10 should be added to the 6th paragraph in the following wording: "the requirements of professional standards when they are available" is that "the standards of higher education should be based on the requirements of professional standards when they are available." We thank you for noticing Volodymyr Litvin, these are technical adjustments that are very important to sound under the transcript. Paragraph three of the first article 20 makes the second sentence of part two of article 25 of the bill. Paragraph 4 of the first article 20 makes the second part of article 20 a paragraph. In paragraph 1 of part three of article 32, after the words “discipline responsibility”, the word “predicted by the proper position and statute of the higher education institution” should be deleted. The question of the term of office of the head of the pulpit, in the second sentence of article 6, 35, replace the words “by five” (in quotes) with the words “by five years”. We suggest editorial clarification.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m0.u155	Please don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m0.u156	Under the stenogram. We propose an editorialization to article 70 with a view to ensuring legal certainty regarding the administration of GNPs and own funds by scientific institutions, namely, the deletion of the first sentence of article 70, paragraph 2, of the second part of the bill. Paragraph 2 of the second part of article 70 reads as follows: "The own receipts of public and municipal higher education institutions, scientific institutions received from the salaries of services provided according to educational, scientific and educational activities, charitable contributions and grants according to the decision taken by the scientific board of the higher education institution, the scientific institution is credited with special registration accounts opened by the central authority of the executive authority in the field of treasury management of budgetary resources or the current and/or deposit accounts of public banks. These incomes, as well as percentages derived from the placement of funds from higher education institutions, the scientific institution in deposit accounts in public banks institutions, are included in the financial plan, the fund of the higher education institution, the scientific institution and can be used for the acquisition and use of property, capital construction and renovation of premises, improvement of the material and technical, teaching and laboratory, teaching and medical provision of educational processes, etc. within the statutory activities of the higher education institution, the scientific institution." At the request of the Cabinet of Ministers, we are also amending paragraph 7 of part five of the final and transitional provisions of section 15 to include in the preparation of the Ukraine State Budget 2015 project the costs needed to ensure the organisation of the National Agency's work in order to ensure the quality of higher education as of September 1, 2015. Dear colleagues, we will now work and vote in favour of this bill. I would like to take into account that the attempts to adopt the new Higher Education Act have lasted for five years, yet, in memory, Vladimir Polochalo, former chairman of the Committee on Science and Education, proposed the first edition of the Education Act. Now this is a working group led by the Sgurovsky Academy. A broad public discussion took place, and thousands of proposals came from academic environments, employers, and students. In our majority, we have reached consensus, and we have a chance to open a new phase in the development of higher education in Ukraine. Please note that in the Association Agreement in the Higher Education section, it is the accession to European educational space and the provision of mechanisms for accession to the Bologna Process that is a requirement for Ukraine. Today, Ukraine has chosen its path – it has signed an Association Agreement. And this law, its adoption is just the introduction of effective mechanisms for Ukraine's entry into European education. And the main thing is to increase the competitiveness of our graduates, to fit their education to the needs of Ukrainian modern society and the labour market. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m0.u157	Lilia Mikhailovna. Wait a minute, dear fellows! From the government we have someone, a government representative? The minister's fine. Dear colleagues, I will remind you that we are not discussing this issue, this is the second reading. Lilia Mikhailna, the only thing I'm asking for is that, because I talked to the minister of finance, he's very tense about the fact that serious problems with the current budget, for the transcript, say that the articles and what we're about to take don't predict an increase in current funding this year. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m0.u158	Articles that envision an increase in funding start only since 2016. The only article that starts after the funding of the Nationality since September 1, 2015, we agreed. Next. Other articles that require, for example, an increase in funding for scholarships will harmonize with the schedule for increasing these payments with the Cabinet of Ministers. And that's clearly indicated. Next. Reduced school effort. There's a situation about reducing the maximum teaching. The pressure on teachers does not go up, because in parallel, the school workload decreases in hours by one loan, from 36 to 30. And we've written down in the law that the drop in school effort should not be accompanied by an increase in the number of bets. That's why we predicted these things, understanding the financial and economic situation in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m0.u159	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I ask you once again to put your hands down, because we are not discussing this issue right now. I'm going to the hall. Can we, colleagues, edit the committee? [[Noise in the hall. Yelling: Yes!]] Because I want to show you the tables, these are two volumes. In the event that I go to the repairs, it is unlikely that we will be able to pass this law today. That's why I'm asking. Attention! Calm down, please. First. I ask the secretariat to announce that all the national MPs come to the hall -- a very responsible and serious question. I address the hall and ask you to raise your hand only to those national MPs who insist – I emphasize, insist. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, I'll say it again, I'll just say it. Dear colleagues, I can put it to a vote, I'm afraid we won't get the required number of votes. Colleagues, please, let's still trust the committee. And in the editorial paper proposed by the committee, proposed by the editorial committee, with consideration, attention! Taking into account the comments highlighted by the chairman of the committee, Lilia Greenevich. Please, Your Honor, let's support this. Taking into account the committee’s proposals and taking into account the comments that have been announced. [[Noise Nodes]] Well, I see one of the factions refusing to vote. Freedom, please, Alexander Mirny is a national MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m0.u160	Alexander Mirny, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear Alexander Valentinovich, we have no questions in general about the bill, but there are amendments that are considered by the committee that are supported only by the committee, not by the Supreme Council, and that need to be submitted for confirmation. Because the view of the committee is important, but that's not the point of view of the entire Supreme Council. So we only have a few, literally 2-3, moments that we'd like to see really support the hall, and then we have to accept this document. Because it's a document tens of years in advance that prescribes the rules of our higher education system. And we shouldn't be wrong. I'm asking you very much, let's ask for confirmation, there are some amendments that raise questions if the hall says yes, then we make decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m0.u161	Please, Valery Suškevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m0.u162	Dear colleagues, I would like to thank Lilia Mikhailni Greenevich for the colossal work that has been done in the drafting of this bill. But, Alexander Valentine's Day, there are adjustments that relate to people with disabilities, children with disabilities, young people with disabilities, which are all the same. I insist that they be voted in the hall, that's extremely important. I was approached by the National Assembly of Disabled People of Ukraine, and I was approached by several public organizations about not taking some amendments into account. Although I'm going to say that this law is the best of all who have been on this issue in years. Please give me your word on the amendments that apply to people with disabilities' access to education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m0.u163	Dear colleagues, I do see that it is not possible to immediately vote on the committee's bill. Let me give those MPs the opportunity to insist on their amendments in principle. But I'd like you, Your Honor, to work so hard that we don't ruin the decision. Please. Come on, Valery Suškevitch, turn on the microphone. After the repairs. And now, come on, you call the repairs -- I'm fixing them. And I'm putting them either on confirmation, or I'm putting them off. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m0.u164	Thank you. Dear Alexander Valentinovich, thank you so much for taking into account the position of the rights of people with disabilities! And the first amendment, the 55th amendment. I do not insist in general on what was said in it. But two positions on identification, this is smart adaptation and universal design, I ask you to vote as the principle of creating educational institutions in Ukraine. Of all of the 55 amendments, I'm asking in the last two positions -- smart adaptation and universal design. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m0.u165	Please tell me all the changes you made right now. I'll put them to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m0.u166	I'll say next, I say next. Alexander Valentinovich, distinguished colleagues! There's the next amendment by number 201. It's a question of higher education standards. 201 amendment, 201 amendment. I ask her to consider the principle of the requirement to address the needs of people with disabilities in higher education standards. Please also consider it. There's no money, nothing. This is about taking into account standards, approaches to higher access for people with disabilities. 201 amendment. The next amendment is 379. It's a question of licensing educational activities. The educational institution cannot be licensed without taking into account the needs of persons with disabilities. I ask that this be recorded in the principles of licensing for educational activities. I request 379 amendments to take into account the needs of persons with disabilities when licensing is accepted in the bill. The next amendment is 395. Again, it is about accrediting a specialty in higher education. There I would also like to take into account, including in addressing the needs of persons with disabilities. 395 amendment, please support. Next amendment. The next amendment, a minute, 845, is the last amendment, Alexander Valentinovich, the last. I don't insist on the whole amendment in an editorial way, but the language goes that in the design, construction and reconstruction of buildings, and in the construction of higher education institutions without adaptation for use by disabled people. We are building new educational institutions that are barrier and inaccessible. I ask you to accept the basic thing, not to build barriers, not to build unattainable for people with disabilities, for young people with disabilities, educational institutions. 845 amendments to the part relating to the design, construction and reconstruction of buildings and buildings of higher education institutions without adjustment for the use of persons with disabilities. Please support these amendments, Your Honor, they relate to accessibility, at last, to the accessibility of people with disabilities.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m0.u167	I got the offer. Dear colleagues, I suggest we do this. I call it an amendment, I give the head of the profile committee, Lilia Greenevich, to comment on it, and we define ourselves. And that's how we save time. But I'm asking you to sit in my workplace. Because right now, without warning, I'm going to be asking questions about the vote. Please 55 revisions, Lilia Mikhailvna. Is it supported?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m0.u168	I'm going to make a general statement on these amendments that have been made. We took these needs into account in the text of the bill. But for example, we couldn't put, of course, an application license because it takes time and costs. So I suggest we warn one thing that we can extend the financing of this adjustment in time. Otherwise, we need to get a license in most of the higher education institutions right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m0.u169	Dear colleagues, I suggest. So that's what I realized, Lilia Mikhailna, is that this is essentially taken into account in the system that you, let's say, evenly introduced during this law. Come on, I'll offer you the following, dear colleagues. As for the amendments that Valeriy Mikhailovich insisted on, let's maintain position, you're already editing. In any case, technical legal editing, I understand that once the amendments are done, we really need it. I'm asking you to record in the transcript that with the technical legalization of this law. But I would suggest that Valery Mikhailovich offer to support new higher education buildings that should be designed to address the needs of the disabled. Obviously, we're not going to close all the schools right now. But let's give new buildings to us. With the needs of disabled people to design. Both reconstruction and reconstruction also take into account. Do you accept, Your Honor? Roger that. I ask, in general, if we vote, given this position, I ask for the disabled. Next. Please, who insists? National MP Mishchenko, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m0.u170	Andrew Mishchenko, All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Society, we have a question before amendment 702 of article 46. We demand and insist that you put the amendment to the room and confirm the 702 amendment to article 46. And Article 49, Amendment 721.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m0.u171	Please comment, Lilia Mikhailovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m0.u172	Yeah, 702 revisions. Well, it's an article. 702 amendments are my amendment. [[B in m in s a l in]] What about you?? [[B in m in s a l in]] And you're asking her to confirm it? Yes, this amendment takes into account that the certification work of external independent evaluation is done in the national language. However, according to a person’s wishes, assignments are given in the translation into the regional language, or minority language, that teaches in the secondary education system.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m0.u173	Dear colleagues, read out the amendment here: "Except for tasks in Ukrainian language and literature and foreign languages." Clearly, I understand that this amendment insists on "Freedom," and I understand that the constitutional norm, please, my fellow Members, is to support it. I'm betting on the maintenance of amendment 702, which was sounded by Lilia Mikhailovna Grinevich. Please, Your Honor, support the amendment. Please vote. [[13:36:33]] For 225 The decision is not taken. [[Applause]] Please, by the factions. Parenthood - 38, 39 - regions, hit - 30, 20 - Economic Development, 31 - Sovereign European Ukraine, 0 - Freedom, Company - 18.49 - non-fractional. Please, I ask Lilia Mikhailovna to comment on this decision. Colleagues, calm down, calm down.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m0.u174	Yes, dear colleagues, one minute, there's a little detail to be made, and we're going to reach consensus -- that's a clarification. And the Freedom faction, can you formulate your clarification? Make it up! Well, make it up!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m0.u175	They insist on editing their first reading. Dear colleagues, I ask you to calm down, I understand the emotions that are very important in law, but let us not put our emotions ahead of the necessity of adopting this law. Please comment to the chairman of the committee, Lilia Grinevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m0.u176	Dear colleagues, the external independent evaluation is carried out in English, but it can also be carried out in minority languages. All children make up English and literature. But if these children learned Hungarian, for example, they find it difficult to compose mathematics in Ukrainian. That's the amendment, but we also agreed that we can add only one word here, and I don't have this text right now. [[B in m in s a l in]] Where a person does not wish, the task is given in the translation into the regional language, or minority language, that teaches in the secondary education system. Does that suit you?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m0.u177	Dear colleagues! I propose, colleagues, attention, attention! The rebuttal article in Lily Greenevich's editorial that she just did, can I put it to a vote? I can put it to a vote. Colleagues, come on, we need to pass the law. Dear colleagues! I'm asking for an editorial now announced by Lilia Greenevich, colleagues, I understand, I understand. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, as proposed by Lilia Greenevich, please, calm down, colleagues, please support the proposal. Vladimir Mikhailovich, is that a question? Please, Vladimir Mikhailovich Litwin, referring to this article, also offers a compromise. Volodymyr Mikhailovich Litvina, turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m0.u178	Dear colleagues! I think we don't have a lot of people here in the session room, with all due respect for every national MP who's read this law with all the amendments. So in order not to overturn this bill, let's now support the committee, accept it as a committee, and in the finalization of the signing, if any problems arise, we can clarify 131 articles. Now vote it in the committee, or we won't take it. Let's now vote in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m0.u179	My colleagues, Lilia Mikhailevna, made a compromise, let's take her into account, because the faction of Freedom is against the committee. So she made a compromise, and I think he's putting all sides together. Please support the amendment in the edition of Lilia Greenevich. Please, Your Honor, support the editorial work by Lilia Grinevich. Please vote. [[13:41:01]] For 284 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, another draft, Mishchenka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m0.u180	Article 49, Amendment 721, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m0.u181	721th, please comment on Lila Mihailly, this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m0.u182	Yes, it's an amendment to the people's MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m0.u183	Boguslayev, 721 correction.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m0.u184	Yes, it is. 821 you're proposing an amendment to Boguslaev.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m0.u185	521? 721st, I read this amendment: "The language of teaching in higher educational institutions is determined in accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine and the Law of Ukraine on State Language Policy Measures," and what is the problem here? Please comment to the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m0.u186	I'm reporting, we've taken it into account editorially, not as it was written here with this Act "On the Measures of State Language Policy" we've taken it into account in this paper. The language of teaching in higher education institutions is the national language and other languages according to the Constitution of Ukraine. What's next? What languages have been written, and how are languages used — English, minority languages — used in what cases? In places of compact residence. So that's what the committee suggested.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m0.u187	Dear colleagues, the only thing I'm asking is that we really have a facility where they teach objects in English. Who's up against it? Or German. That is, to train professionals who will work abroad, for example. So I'm just, your honor, insisting on confirming this amendment? Dear colleagues. You insist. Please vote in favour of Amendment 721. Please vote on this amendment. [[13:43:27]] For 221 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, what format is this article then? [[B in m in s a l in]] Lilia Mikhailovna, please offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m0.u188	Then we go back. Colleagues, calm down. Then we go back.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m0.u189	Colleagues, don't knock the committee's head down, let it form a position.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m0.u190	I want to tell you what the situation is now. Then we've got an editorial saying, "The language of teaching in higher education institutions is the state language." [[Applause]] But it is further written that according to the wishes of higher education recipients, a higher education institution creates opportunities for them to learn the language of national minorities in an extent that allows them to conduct professional activities in the chosen field using that language.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m0.u191	"By Wish" is counted? Count, yes, may we vote? [[B in m in s a l in]] No, it's not in the first one, it's just a dot, that's all. There's a dot, you know? [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, calm down, colleagues, let's not play around here. We've come up with a serious question, and we need to work on it seriously, responsibly. Can I put it? [[B in m in s a l in]] Lilia Mikhailovna, make an offer to put me to the vote. I'll put it to a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m0.u192	Dear colleagues, we can now, because we have not confirmed the amendment, leave this 718 position, 718 tape in the comparative table: "The language of teaching in higher education institutions is the state language," dot. But then there's the following positions that we're told. First, with the aim of creating conditions for international academic mobility, the higher education institution has the right to decide on the teaching of one or more disciplines in foreign languages, while providing knowledge to higher educationers of the relevant public language discipline. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm teaching you all the positions you have! Next: for teaching.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m0.u193	Lilia Mikhailna, when this is, it's not doubtful, is it?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m0.u194	I want to explain what is complementary to the use of other languages. These positions complement the use of other languages if we remove them in the first line. So, in principle, we can agree with that.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m0.u195	Aubrey, of course. So the first reading is left over, of course. Any more repairs? None. Thank you. Dear colleagues! Please, National Deputy Zharavsky. I ask, only those who insist on their own amendments, not on anything, but on their own amendments call it a name. Because. I ask you, Your Honor, that we take this matter seriously. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m0.u196	Dear colleagues, I'd like to thank Lilia Mikhailovni, she's done a colossal job, all of the academics who have prepared a wonderful law, and especially the Rector of KPI by the Academy of Sciences of Zgurovsky Mikhail Zakharovich. Thank them so much for this law. And I would urge all the people to vote for him. This is very and very important for the quality of our education, so that our people can work around the world, not just in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m0.u197	Dear colleagues, I apologize! Let's take our time now and not adopt the law. Can we vote? We can. Let's do it together again so everyone can hear: can we vote?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m0.u198	Well, that's another question! Dear colleagues, in the committee's editorial opinion, the law takes into account our vote, taking into account the proposals made by the reconstruction, and the new buildings of higher education institutions solely in view of the needs of the disabled (we promised this to Valery Mikhailovich, I think we are all supported in this matter), please accept this project as a whole. May I remind you, registration number 0858. Please, dear fellows, together. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm sorry. Dear colleagues, technical correction. Draft No. 1187-2 of the Higher Education Act (new edition). Please, dear colleagues, in the second and in general. Please vote. [[13:48:40]] For 276 [[Applause]] We welcome all the educated and all the Ukraine with an important step. [[Applause]] This is a very important question. I am convinced that it will enter the history of the higher world of Ukraine. The factions, please. Fatherland is 77. Packet now. 12 – Party of Regions, Hit 37 – Economic Development – 29.32 – Sovereign European Ukraine, 34 – Freedom, The Company – 0, non-fractional – 55. Dear colleagues, I thank and wish our students the honor of fulfilling their constitutional responsibilities and our children the best education in the world. Please. Thank you. Dear colleagues, can we get another law? Let's give it a try. No.0858 Draft Law amending article 41 of the Ukrainian Law on the regulation of urban activities. Please, dear fellows. Is the Andreyevsky People's Deputy? Please. Dmitri Josephovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m0.u199	Dear colleagues! Your opinion is proposed for the second reading of Bill No.0858. The point is that only one amendment came in, and it was taken into account, but at the same time we received a notice from the Legal Authority. The point is that additional funding from the state budget requires further study in order to deal with these issues properly. The point is that, to date, all one hundred percent of the employees of the Derjargbudcontrol are insured, resulting in significant costs from the state budget. It is proposed that this insurance be replaced by direct payments from the state budget in some case when the insurance event occurs. In general, the committee supports this bill, but we ask that it be re-readed in order to settle the department's legal observations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m0.u200	Dear colleagues, there is a proposal to support the project in the second reading and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m0.u201	To the others again? My dear colleagues, I'm sorry, I was distracted, and I didn't hear the committee offer. The committee proposes a second reading. No objection, dear colleagues? I won't. I ask the distinguished National Deputies to support the committee's proposal and to re-read the draft Law amending article 41 of the Urban Settlement Act (registration No. 0858). Please, dear fellows, for the second time again. Please vote. [[13:52:09]] For 185 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Parenthood – 57, Party of Regions – 22, Impact – 1, Economic Development – 23, 28 – Sovereign European Ukraine, Freedom – 0, KPU – 17, non-fractional – 37. Dear colleagues, I understand that then the law is rejected, do we not support it?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m0.u202	We can do it in the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m0.u203	Well, the second one's not supported. I'll when. Honorable colleagues to determine the hall regarding the rejection of this law. Please, National Deputy Rosenko. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m0.u204	Paul Rosenko, Strike faction. Well, according to the regulations, we had to vote first for the law in the second reading. Of course, he would not have been supported and then only to vote in favour of returning him to second reading to the committee. That's why there's an offer. Now put to the vote for the bill in the second reading. And after that, he will simply be rejected by the Supreme Council of Ukraine as one that was not approved. There is a proposal to vote, put to a vote in that form.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m0.u205	I got the offer. Marcinki's national deputy, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m0.u206	Ruslan Marcinkov, All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. I suggest we put him to the vote now and turn him down. Because this bill, in fact, was still being developed by a previous authority that wanted additional social benefits for the employees of the State Building Control. We know what the structure is, how it gives building permits today, it enters into exploitation, which is corruption. Finally, the bill is drafted and introduced by the government to restore these powers to local authorities. First, we need to uphold this law in order to solve these problems today, and these problems need to be addressed by the Supreme Council. So the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union is now proposing that this bill be rejected and not considered. To put the day’s issue of Sustainable Control into order and to give these powers to local authorities. So that local communities and city dwellers, villages, and villages can solve these problems on their own. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m0.u207	Andreyevsky's national deputy from the committee, distinguished colleagues, and we will be determined.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m0.u208	Dear colleagues, once again, I want to explain that today we have a standard in place when all the employees of the State Building Control are insured. They're insured at the expense of our central government budget. And that's a lot of payoffs. So this proposal to replace this insurance with direct payments to us when there are events is a normal offer. And in general, this could be supported. There are no restrictions on local self - government. But in order to take this into account in more detail, it is the order of these direct payments that needs to be redrafted by his second reading. So I would suggest, however, that we reduce the pressure on the budget by voting it out in an orderly manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m0.u209	Dear colleagues, let me put it this way, in accordance with the Rules, I now put it in the second and in general. When the Supreme Council doesn't support it, I'll put the second one again. If the second is not supported again, this bill will be regarded as rejected. And then, when necessary, introduce a new bill on this issue. Please, Your Honor, please identify yourself with regard to the adoption, as a whole, of the 0858 Bill on Amendments to Article 41 on the Regulation of Urban Activities. Please identify the hall. [[13:56:19]] For-63 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, and now I'm asking about the committee's second reading proposals. Please make up your mind. [[13:56:42]] For-75 The decision is not taken. There is no support in this law. There is a need, please, for a new bill. Dear colleagues, we are adjourning our morning session and continuing our work at 4:00. Please don't be late for the National Deputies.
