ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u1	Good morning, national MPs! Please sit at your workplace and prepare for registration. Please turn on the "Race" system. [[10:06:37]] There were 270 deputies registered in the hall. We're starting our session. Dear colleagues, I'd like to ask you now to pay attention to the agenda, updated, which has been given to all the deputies who are in the hall. I would ask that we immediately vote on the agenda and start (I will now comment on which to avoid double treatment) and start with the Supreme Council's Order on addressing the guarantors of the Memorandum of Understanding on Security Safeguards in connection with Ukraine's accession to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons. This is related to the situation in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. I can see the hands. That's why, dear colleagues, I have a tradition, as long as the deputies sit down, I want to welcome the birthday that is happening today in Zubik Vladimir Vladimirovich. Say hello to him. [[Applause]] And whoever didn't get a new agenda, I'm gonna lose a few minutes, but I want to announce it. Draft Decision to refer the Supreme Council to the Memorandum of Understanding on Security Safeguards in connection with Ukraine's accession to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons. On the termination of the authority of the Ukrainian National Deputy. Next. A package of laws relating to the status of a national MP: the abolition and limitation of the benefits of national deputies The next question block. This is a proposal from the Freedom of Speech Committee to express mistrust in the National Council of Ukraine on television and radio broadcasting as a result of the 2013 report. A cluster of issues that is very important, related to changes to the Presidential Elections Act, so that we can effectively conduct a transparent, democratic, electoral campaign. Next. Draft Decree on Improving the Activities of Revenue and Congregation Authorities (the Mishchenka People’s Deputy Project) Yesterday in the formation of the government, you and I decided that we were eliminating the Ministry of Assembly Revenue. And this is the project, as I understand it, isn't it, Sergey Grigorovitch? And the last draft to be considered today is the bill on the rehabilitation of persons to implement the decisions of the European Court of Human Rights. I mean, respectable colleagues, such a difficult and responsible agenda for today's meeting. I ask the honourable national deputies to support this proposal. Alexander Sergiyovich, in the daytime order, right, I understand? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u2	Dear Alexander Valentinović, you have a full-time machine that can prepare an agenda in the course of time. You put us in a situation where you give the agenda one, then you go into the room, you arbitrarily change this agenda without giving out any documents, and the MPs don't know what they want to vote for. Therefore, the faction of the Party of the Regions will neither support nor vote in favour of the issues you have put on the agenda now, because we do not know what you wrote there. Now, with regard to questions relating to the benefits of deputies. We ask you very much and we do not understand why this has not been done. Add Bill 4125 to the agenda.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u3	Allow me to finish the speech. Take it easy, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u4	Include all these issues in the agenda and consider them in the package. With regard to election change, that was the limit of cynicism. When we discussed election laws with you, we agreed on each line for a few months. You've introduced this bill at night, and you want people who haven't read it to vote now. Explain what you are doing, and why are you doing this?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u5	Please turn on the microphone of the People’s Deputy Laszka.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u6	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Lord Ephraim, look at me! Here you are telling everyone about the agenda. Your six in Lugansk is a member of the district council, your assistant Arsen Clinchaev is funding Luhani separatists who walk with guns, and so on. Ephraim, we will not let you out of the hall and bring you to justice. And before you talk about the agenda, go out and repent of the killings, of the deaths of people, of blood, of the slaughter of Ukraine! Do you see how they're being hasty?Oh, my God! They're already giving us lectures. They killed people, split up the country, and now he doesn't like anything. He sprinkled his head with ashes and into a monastery for the rest of his life or on the bench of defendants along with Yanukovic. Dear Ukrainians! Today, an open intervention by Russia is taking place in Crimea. Parliament's task is to take immediate decisions to protect Ukraine's territorial integrity and to stop the intervention. Initiate the UN Security Council, initiate appeals to the guarantor countries, act decisively and with balance.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u7	Thank you. Dear colleagues, this is exactly what we are proposing to begin our work. And to do that, we need to establish a daily routine. Dear colleagues! Siktor Pinzenik, please, National Deputy. And let's make a decision. I'm asking you very much, let's just lower our emotions a little bit, and we're going to increase the efficiency of our work. Please, Victor Pinzenik.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u8	Dear Alexander Valentinovich, distinguished colleagues! The Faction of the UDA Party is requesting that the issue of amending the Ukrainian Presidential Election Act be removed from consideration. One of the draft laws is not even available on the Web site of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. None of our experts, none of our deputies, have been able to get to know them. Let's take this off, and then we'll vote and we'll start a discussion of the first question that relates to the adoption of the appeal of the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u9	Please, the People's Deputy. I see Valery Mikhailovich. I'll give you a chance to say.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u10	Thank you, Alexander Valentinovich. Ladies and gentlemen of the people, Reverend Alexander Valentinovich! I would like to make a proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of Decree 4257: to ensure the functioning of the modern software and technology complex of the Council-3 system. This is one of the commitments we made publicly. I ask you, as Head of the Supreme Council, to respond to the mandate of the Supreme Council to carry out the testing of this system. Include this decision in the agenda. Vote in the hall. And to ask the question of compliance with the Ukrainian Constitution and of possible violations of the dot It is our public obligation, we must do so. This is what we started the offensive and the conquest, the observance of the Ukrainian Constitution of the Party of the Regions. And I think we need to make our commitments clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u11	Dear colleagues, I support the deputies so that we can normalize our work, any decision must be made by the appropriate committee of profile. Colleagues, I beg you, we need to accept a statement that the national MPs are talking about. We need to act quickly and effectively. Let's talk more, let's talk. I ask you to put to the vote the agenda that has been announced. As for the Election Act (I'll give you a minute, I'll give you a comment), there's a proposal just to lift these laws, to lift these laws. (Valery Mikhailovich, I can see the hand, please wait, there will be an opportunity - I'll give you the opportunity to speak.) To repeal election laws by voting, because they are registered. There is only one problem in electoral legislation that needs to be adopted – a lack of resources to fund elections. And that's why there's a proposal there to make one brief change in the law: to reduce the number of members of the election boards from each candidate. This will allow 500 million dollars to save money for the election campaign. It's the only question that needs to be voted out, Victor Mikhailovich. All other matters will be settled under the Electoral Law. Please, colleagues, I'm asking for an order of the day. Let's get to that question and figure out how to vote. I'd like to support you very much. The voting is the order of the sitting of today’s Parliament. Please, Your Honor. Stop, don't vote. Valerius Mikhailovich. Give the committee a word. Turn on the Suskewich microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u12	Thank you. Alexander Valentinovich, it's very hard for me to pay attention. I beg you, I'm rarely given a word. I'm raising my hand, you don't notice, I'm asking you, please. This is about a bill, more loyal to Decree 4297, which I referred to you yesterday: to suspend the retirement of judges and prosecutors who violated the oath and the Constitution of Ukraine. It's hundreds of thousands of dollars that are about to be paid, they're going to retire quickly. I request that this order be put to the vote. Because my law, which I worked with the people's deputies, is going to form this pension in a very different way, considering the investigation of the respective committees. Please put it in the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u13	Dear colleagues, I don't deny it. When the conclusion, Valérie Mikhailovich, is a committee, to put this decision into the agenda. Is there a committee conclusion? Yes. So let's put it in the order of the day. Dear colleagues, with a proposal made by Valeriy Mihajlovich Suškević Victor Pinzenik, do we have a problem with the routine? Please turn on the microphone to the representative of the impact faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u14	Dear colleagues, we insist once again on the matter. Three laws, not one law, are in order of the day, not even on the site of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. You don't have to like playing underpants, sorry, "cat and mouse." We haven't seen any draft laws, we don't know what's there. So we ask you to remove those laws, and we vote for the rest. I'm sorry, don't put it in the agenda.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u15	Dear colleagues, in order for us to now adopt the order of the day and move forward on the path that is now essential to our country, I am taking these laws out of the order of the day. Please. With regard to this issue, the committee asks a few words from the national deputy Knyazevitch. To make a decision, colleagues. Unfortunately, we don't have time with you. Please, Knyazevitch microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u16	Dear Head, honourable deputies, of course you can record anything. But I would just explain the situation. The essence of the laws is that the law is valid -- I'd like Alexander Ephraim to listen -- unfortunately, it's a terrible part of the election. I point out to you that according to the law in force, Monday should be submitted for the formation of district commissions on behalf of candidates whose registration ends on March 30th, and still each stage of the electoral process is simply distorted. If we don't adopt this law today and it doesn't take effect anytime soon, we're actually breaking the election campaign. This should be said consciously, publicly, and honestly. And any other thing that doesn't set someone up is going to be able to settle in parallel during the election. Because the main purpose of this bill is not to regulate political matters, but to regulate technical legal matters. And most importantly, try.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u17	Dear colleagues, once again, I return to this package of laws. This package contains three laws, the first two must be rejected by the Supreme Council because they have lost their relevance. The third law is drafted by the Central Election Commission, which requests the immediate adoption of this law in order not to disrupt the electoral process. When we think that the election in Ukraine is a secondary question, I'm taking it out of the agenda, and then, honourable colleagues, when you come up and say that the election breaks itself, you can ask questions, and people will ask you questions. I'm taking these three questions out of the agenda. [[B in m in s a l in]] Can't you? I understand you can't, strike factions can or can't, we won't be trading here in the rostrum! I'm asking, colleagues, I'm going to vote now without these laws, the agenda, I'm going to ask you to hold the factions of the consultation, and then separately I'm going to put this law into the agenda. Is that the format you're taking? Roger that. Without these laws, I ask you to vote for order. Head of the Committee of Cosemyakin. Colleagues, let's be more organized.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u18	Dear Alexander Valentinovich! On your commission to the Conciliation Board, the committee considered two decisions, they were ready, they were on Mr. Kosulinsky's desk yesterday. This is Decree 4210 and 4211. These rulings, which were agreed with the activists, with the Maydan Self-Defense, with the Maydan activists, refer to the specificity of discharge from the prosecutor's office, the prosecutors, as well as the employees of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the BSS. There is such a specific situation, because everyone is now trying to get out, and we need to check out the special commissions in these departments: did they take part in the criminal acts that took place in the Midan and Ukraine confrontations? And they have a bearing on the crimes that the prosecution is investigating today? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u19	Thank you. Dear colleagues! I very much ask you, very many pertinent questions, we will not be able to solve them in one day, so Andrew Volodymyrovich's proposal, the other proposals we'll include, I'm commissioning, the order of the next session. First. Secondly, I have been approached by national deputies from various factions to include in the order of the day a question concerning the inviolability of national MPs, the President of the country, the judges of the country, so that they are all equal before the law and the Constitution. Unfortunately, there is no such bill that is ready to vote in the Supreme Council. That's why I'm also giving the task to the committees and deputies who want to deal with this issue at the next session to make such a project after a committee meeting. Dear colleagues, I'm putting to the vote the order of the day, taking into account the exclusion of a cluster of issues related to the President's election, at the suggestion of the strike faction, to consult factions so that we can return to this issue. Please turn on the council and vote. [[10:23:57]] For 224 Thank you for your active position. The decision was not adopted — 224 votes. [[B in m in s a l in]] Then I ask you to take your seat, fellow believers, and vote, not walk in the hall. I'm asking the question again. Please take your seats. Colleagues, let's vote, let's make decisions. Once again, I'm putting this question to the vote, please. Please return to the vote. Vote. [[10:24:35]] For 237 Thank you. Decision taken. Now I ask you to vote on the agenda. Please activate the "Council" voting system. Please vote. [[10:24:56]] For 238. Decision taken. Dear National Deputies! I want to start with a discussion of the issues, not with a statement of parliamentary questions -- we can do that at the end of our session -- but with the most pressing problem, the most painful problem for Ukraine, which is the continuation of the escalation of the tension in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. Regrettably, despite our appeals and statements at the previous meeting, the armed forces of the Russian Federation are directly involved in the escalation of this conflict, which, despite the warnings of the Ukrainian side, are moving with arms towards the Autonomous Republic of Crimea in a direction that is not consistent with the Ukrainian side. Tonight, terrorists with automatic weapons (estimated by our services, professional military) attempted to take control of Crimea airports. At 11 o’clock, I scheduled a National Security and Defence Council meeting on this very issue. And now, ladies and gentlemen, your initiative has been followed by a decree of the Supreme Council, which I now wish to announce in order for the Supreme Council to approve. Order of the Supreme Council of Ukraine The appeal of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the guaranteeing States pursuant to the Memorandum of Understanding on Security Safeguards in relation to Ukraine's accession to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons. In exchange for Ukraine’s nuclear disarmament, the voluntary destruction of more than 2,000 strategic nuclear weapons that Ukraine has inherited from the Soviet Union and Ukraine’s accession to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons as a State without nuclear weapons, Ukraine has received security assurances since 1994 in connection with Ukraine’s accession to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (Budapest Memorandum). The Russian Federation, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and the United States of America, in the Budapest Memorandum, confirmed Ukraine’s obligations under the principles of the U.N.B.S. Final Act to respect independence and sovereignty and the existing borders of Ukraine. The guaranteeing states have also confirmed their commitment to refrain from threatening or using force against Ukraine's territorial integrity or political independence and that no weapons will ever be used against Ukraine. The Russian Federation, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, the United States of America have committed themselves to refrain from economic pressure aimed at subduing its own interests to exercise Ukraine's rights under its sovereignty and thus to gain any advantage. Guarantee States in the Budapest Memorandum also committed themselves to consult in the event of a situation that raises questions about their obligations. In this connection, the Supreme Council of Ukraine expresses concern about recent developments in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, including information on possible external interference, which has become a direct breach of the Memorandum’s obligations. After the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea refused to consider separatist initiatives on February 26, 2014, an armed terrorist group under the flags of the Russian Federation seized the premises of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the Cabinet of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea on February 27, 2014. On February 28, 2014, an attempt was made by unknown armed fighters at Simferopol Airport and Belbek Airport near Sevastopol in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. In addition, the Supreme Council of Ukraine expresses concern over the conduct by the Russian Federation of large-scale military training and redeployment of troops in border areas with Ukraine. During the last time, there have also been isolated incidents of the movement of military equipment from the Black Sea fleet of the Russian Federation to the territory of Ukraine, which did not agree with the Ukrainian side. At the same time, the numerous actions of the Russian Federation, including the creation of artificial barriers to bilateral trade with Ukraine, have reason to qualify as a violation of paragraph 3 of the Memorandum, under which the guaranteeing States have committed themselves to refrain from economic pressure aimed at subduing their own interests to exercise Ukraine's rights under its sovereignty. In connection with such actions, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, first of all, requires the Russian Federation to stop steps that have signs of entrenched sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine, including its refusal to support secessionism in Ukraine in any form. For its part, the Supreme Council of Ukraine stresses that all the civil rights of Ukrainian citizens guaranteed by the Constitution of Ukraine and the international obligations of Ukraine, including language, are and will be granted full and unwavering compliance in Ukraine. The other one. It requires all guaranteeing States, in accordance with the Budapest Memorandum of Understanding, to confirm the commitments enshrined in the Memorandum of Understanding in accordance with the principles of the NBS Final Act: respect for the independence and sovereignty and existing borders of Ukraine; reaffirm the obligation to refrain from threatening or using it against Ukraine's territorial integrity or political independence. And that no weapons will ever be used against Ukraine. Third. I call on the parties to the Memorandum to hold immediate consultations with Ukraine to relieve tension and restore a climate of mutual trust. Four. I demand from the guaranteeing states, in accordance with the Budapest Memorandum, to support the implementation by the Security Council of the United Nations of the situation in individual regions of Ukraine, particularly in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, as a threat to international peace and security. In the event of its escalation, I demand that the guaranteeing States seek immediate action by the UN Security Council in order to assist Ukraine as a State party to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons, which does not possess nuclear weapons, including taking into account the previous consideration of this issue, which resulted in a statement by the Head of the UN Security Council on 20 July 1993. Fifth. I invite special missions under the auspices of the OSCE and the Council of Europe to verify the proper observance of the rights of Ukrainian citizens of all nationalities and religions in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and other regions of Ukraine. Six. I appeal to the Security Council and the United Nations to convene meetings to address the problems identified in the context of the UN Security Council statement of July 20, 1993. Dear colleagues, the draft decree has been announced. Can we vote for him? Please, dear fellows. I ask you to stop and give the word to the head of the "Freedom" faction of Oleg Tegnibok.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u20	Thank you. Oleg Tuggnibok, Freedom faction. In a categorical way, we consulted internationalists and constitutionalists. Paragraph three should be written as follows. "To entrust the Ministry of Foreign Affairs with measures to activate the mechanism of consultation by Ukraine, and beyond the text. That is, it will be more correct, and based on international practice, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has been commissioned, and everything else is clearly voted on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u21	Dear colleagues, no objection to the offer? None. Friends, given the offer, the honourable colleagues who are now being announced, I ask to vote on the ruling. Please vote. Who's in? [[10:35:26]] For 230 230 votes. Decision taken. Thank you. By factions, please, this is a very important vote. I declare: Region Party – 13 votes, Fatherland – 68, Vitalia Klicka – 32, Sovereign European Ukraine – 25, Freedom – 34, Economic Development – 25, Company – 0, non-fractional – 33. Now, wait! I'd like the people's deputy Greeneweck to turn on the microphone. And I know, Vladimir Mikhailovich Litwin, as chairman of the committee of profile, also wanted to comment. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u22	Thank you. Dear colleagues, Your Honor Alexander Valentinovich, I would like to make a few remarks. First. We should address either heads of state or parliaments of states, not just states. It's different. It should be borne in mind that after the signing of the Budapest Memorandum by the United States, Britain and the Russian Federation, France and China joined it. This too should be borne in mind. So I'd like to ask you to respond.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u23	Thank you. Vladimir Mikhailovich, will there be comments? And in the direction of the committee's work, in this direction? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u24	Dear Head, dear colleagues! This morning a meeting was held by the National Security and Defence Committee. We are constantly working in such a regime, following up the situation in Ukraine and directly in Crimea. Today, we have heard information about the security and defence sector and have made general decisions. In the context of the question under discussion, I am authorized by the committee to inform you. The first thing the committee proposes is to do in this connection. Dear colleagues, stop this fountain of ideas that often sound like MPs who only make things worse. To suggest that people are authorized, competent, who will not aggravate the processes that are taking place in Ukraine. The other one. In order to normalize the situation in Crimea with peaceful means and opportunities, everything must be done to ensure that the newly appointed leaders of the security and defence sector and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine do not fear people for their lives. Yesterday at the opening of an exhibition dedicated to the birth of Taras Shevchenka, the children asked one question: Will there be a war in Ukraine? And the peace of the people depends on us. Sorry for the rudeness, we need to shut down some fountain of ideas, people who don't know what question to come up with. [[Applause]] Everyone in Ukraine has already split up. We have to work. There are no jobs anymore. Third moment. Of course, this decision must be taken by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. He and I were late. The fourth moment, dear colleagues. A full delegation of deputies must be formed, including those who live in Crimea, so that this delegation can go to Crimea and contact the deputies of the State Department, the Council of the Federation of Russia. Stop making noises through fences like bad neighbors. The next moment. I ask the Acting President and the Head of the Supreme Council to form a working group of a delegation and propose a contact, a dialogue with the Council of the Federation and the State of Russia, so that we can look at each other in the eye and talk about what we are responsible for so that the conflict doesn't get worse, it's only in Ukraine, and it's in general in other areas, in post-Radians space. One way or another, this process will take place. One more moment. Consider and decide immediately on Sevastopol’s Status Law and a number of other matters that would calm people down. Proposal from the committee: to form a National Security and Defence Council immediately. And perhaps during this period, to invite or join is again an appeal to the executive duty of the President of Ukraine, the leaders of all factions, so that the decisions can be agreed upon. There are a number of other issues, and most importantly, our restraint and responsibility will produce the necessary positive results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u25	Dear colleagues, once again, the National Security Council, in accordance with the Constitution, has been formed. And at 11 p.m., her meeting will take place. I'm asking the People's Deputies, we've just made a decision: I'll call number 4306. It will be brought to all the countries concerned. It will be brought to the United Nations, to the OSCE, to the Council of Europe, to all the civilized countries of the world, and, of course, to the Russian Federation. I will inform you of the results of the work of the National Security and Defence Council. And now, dear colleagues, please, let's start working now, and proposals, very many proposals. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u26	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear Alexander Valentine's Day, given the critical situation in Crimea, I propose that the Supreme Council consider the issue of the denunciation of the Kharkiv Treaties, which continued the Black Sea fleet in Ukraine. Next. In view of the threats, it may be useful to consider lifting Ukraine's non-block status in order to obtain support from the international community. Next. Why do we still have the Chief of General Staff? Today’s chief of staff is in treatment in Sevastopol. As the president’s duty manager, you have to change Genstab to get the job started, including in the military direction. And, Vladimir Mikhailovich Litwin, I have a personal question to ask you. Here you are telling us: We need to act with balance, and so that those who do not have an intervention do not know something. I want to tell you. Under your guidance, the Kharkivs were ratified in Parliament.?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u27	Dear colleagues, I ask the MPs to calm down. The discussion was over. We adopted Decree 4306 as a basis and as a whole. All right, we've got the risk, we've got the dot. We're working on it. I beg of you, Your Honor, we begin our work on the order of the day. I'll be able to speak from the faction. Please. I want to say it again. We are now starting an escalation of the conflict in the Supreme Council itself, rather than the Supreme Council working to protect Ukraine's interests. Look what you're doing! I ask you to calm down and take your seats. Calm down! Calm down! [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues, please calm down. Calm down! Calm down, please. We'll work. In the case that Parliament insists on speaking, because even emotions are not yet organized, I ask that you sign up for the factions and start working. Please sign up. Please, the Fatherland faction. In one minute, out of the way.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u28	Brigitte, Fatherland faction. Please pass the word to Mikola Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u29	Turn on Mikoli Tomenka's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u30	Dear colleagues, I am on behalf of our faction, and as an ordinary Ukrainian, and a participant in fighting in Afghanistan, I ask you very much to put a moratorium on hysterics and pyars, on the basis of the issues that concern all mankind today. If we have presidential candidates here, and the election campaign has begun, run an electoral campaign in the streets, in the villages and in the cities. So the first request. Guys, I'm asking you, especially those people who were a little behind the protests: stop taking initiatives about how you love and respect the boys who died. Let us honor the support of their families, families, and activities that required us to do. The other one. Let's stop the stupid and inexorable initiatives that you hear when you go past the Supreme Council meeting. We have already taken initiatives here that can separate the country and allow us to lose our sovereignty. None, Alexander Valentine's Day, a matter of conflict, ideology, language.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u31	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u32	Only by consensus in the session room must we have the understanding and conscience that we today have the responsibility for the country, the responsibility for each person. So we agreed on three questions, considered, took a break, and returned. We must work as we worked, constantly, but no provocation, no conflict, then we will be worthy deputies and defend our country. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u33	Thank you, Mikola Volodymyrovich, for the constructive presentation and suggestions. Please. From the faction of the Party of the Regions, National Deputy Shufric.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u34	Thank you. The esteemed Chief, respected colleagues, have recently rarely coincided with the views of the two parts of the hall. But clearly, I'm talking to the chairman: if we hear provocative calls, we turn off the microphone immediately, and we'll deal with the one who provokes. If you have to tell me where it came from, how the districts were provided during the last elections, how the Administration was given instructions and given money, let's say, the time had come. And now, essentially. The decision has already been made, and this is the decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, but look at how many people voted for it: it was barely 226 votes to 230.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u35	I'm asking you to give me the opportunity to finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u36	Thank you. Alexander Valentinovich! Remember, if I’m not mistaken, 2002 — or 2003, 2004 — Tuzla. 2003 is Tuzla, June or July. More than 400 votes. Was that what happened in this room? Perhaps such a decision that you have just proposed should be discussed among the leaders of all factions, regardless of who is in power, who is outside the power. No one will leave Ukraine alone with the questions that are now. It's not just the Crimea that's picking up the tricolours right now. Why is this happening? People, I'm sure, today don't deny the unity of Ukraine, people today are signaling that they need help. [[Applause]] They feel that they do not receive this help in their home country. When a stepdaughter is waiting for a child, a national MP who is not a member of the new authority and is abused at the airport. When the wife of a national MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u37	I beg of you, Nestor Ivanovich, time.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u38	Today, we ask one thing: Let us be calm, respectful of one another. We are ready to unite our efforts, we are ready to unite our efforts and experience in order to prevent any opposition in the country, we are open to cooperation today, but we must treat each other and each citizen, regardless of where he lives, with respect. And I'm sure.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u39	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u40	Dear colleagues, if we respect each other and respect each other, I am absolutely convinced that we will solve all the issues and agree to come out of those challenges that are now not only before the authorities, but before all of us, and we must respect each other. Thank you. () [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u41	People's MP Pinzenik.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u42	Dear National Deputies! Dear colleagues!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u43	Dear colleagues, I ask you to calm down!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u44	Dear friends, parliament can and should play a positive role, and it is capable of settling the situation in the country. We have seen disgraceful aspects of Parliament’s work, but we have also seen that when we had to focus in Parliament on solving problems, we have found courage in ourselves, we have united positions, we have united our thoughts and views in order to bring stability in the country. I am convinced that there is a thinking part of the MPs in Parliament, and I am convinced that we are able to make 300 votes, as was the case in the first few days. I am convinced that more than 300 deputies were to vote in favour of this decision, and there are obviously some technological problems in our work. In this regard, I am addressing the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u45	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u46	convinced that we would find a solution for which we would vote 300 because everyone wants peace and quiet. I'm making some suggestions to our colleagues. The first suggestion, it already sounded here, is not to let MPs who don't know how to handle emotion. [[Applause]] We're making a commitment, strike faction, that we're not going to allow speeches from the rostrum that are causing the oppression of the situation. The other one. I've listened to speaking colleagues, I've heard some speeches that are actually correct, only the place where they're discussed -- not from the rostrum. I call on all my colleagues, we understand the problems that now arise in our social life, and I urge us not to discuss them from the rostrum. If there's a question -- I'm referring to the speaker of the Supreme Council of Ukraine -- they need to be discussed, made up of decisions and clear signals supported by an absolute majority of colleagues. Next thing. We have a Ukrainian-Russian interparliamentary group, there are deputies, there are established connections. We need to talk, otherwise the conversation will be conducted in a different way. And there's an offer: send it to our colleagues from the State Duma of the Russian Federation. And the last. I'm addressing colleagues from the faction of the region, colleagues from other factions, authoritative people who use respect in all parts of Ukraine, now form a delegation of wise, intelligent, thinking, authoritative people to hold a dialogue with the authorities that are on the Crimean Peninsula, with people who are in Crimea. We need a dialogue, we need calmness, reasonableness, and a sober head.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u47	Thank you. Dear colleagues, from Freedom is the national deputy Oleg Tuggnibok.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u48	Respectable Society! Yesterday, Parliament decided to appoint a new government. Yesterday, the Acting President of Ukraine proposed to the Parliament the nomination of the Minister of Defence of Ukraine. And this candidate received the required number of votes. In six minutes, the National Security and Defence Council will begin its sessions, and since there is a military intervention in relation to Ukraine, let's not interfere with our forces' professional decision on their competence. Let's make it possible to work for the U.S.S.N.O. and realize that this weapon-throwing in Crimea is not excluded. This is done to include blackmailing the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The PNB works, let it make the right decisions, and we will listen to the reports. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u49	National MP Kuzmuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u50	Dear colleagues! Well, the earth has not yet frozen in the graves of those we have buried Ukrainians, a new threat. A new exam for our nation when it comes to territorial integrity. People in Crimea, and not only in Crimea, are frightened by the development of events in the capital and other areas. And today I support those colleagues who condemn thoughtless, foolish statements. On the Supreme Council, we need to accept a moratorium on every unwary word that disentangles or provokes. Only a well - thought - out position can we solve this conflict. We elected the government yesterday. So, the government's business is to make a exit meeting in Crimea.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u51	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u52	With people, help them believe. And certainly for the criminals, the example of Kiev must be that of Kiev, which should be calmed down; the example of Ukraine that it will calm down. Then there will be confidence in the Crimea. And, Alexander Valentine's Day, I ask you to announce the approved list of members of the National Security and Defence Council. They formulate very responsible things, and we need to know what the Council is, and it's legal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u53	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I was approached by many national deputies and was told that they had failed to vote in favour of the draft decree. They were asked to be given that opportunity again. I'd like to consult you about this: if there's a need, we can assume that the project was taken as a basis for the adjustments that the national MPs have been talking about, including Oleg Tajnibok, Greenewecki. We could put a decision to the vote now in general. Is it supported? Supported. So that all those who wanted to vote would still vote. I ask you to take your seats and prepare for the vote as a whole. Draft Decision No.4306: “Request of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the guaranteeing States in accordance with the Memorandum on Security Safeguards in relation to Ukraine's accession to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons”. I ask the Supreme Council to vote in favour of Project No.4306 as a whole. Please vote. Guys, come on, let's not joke! Let's not joke about this! [[General Discussion]] Don't you get it? I repeat, at the request of the deputies. Don't come back! We decided that many people had not been able to vote. There's an offer to get everyone to their jobs. I will announce a list of MPs who have not voted in favour of this decree who are not interested in the national security and security of our country! I'll call every deputy who hasn't voted! Get ready! Please return to the vote for this order, vote for it. Please return to the vote. [[10:59:15]] For 240 Decision taken. I am voting on the entire draft Decree 4306: "To refer the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the guaranteeing states, in accordance with the Memorandum on Security Safeguards in relation to Ukraine's accession to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons." Please vote in favour of Project 4306 as a whole. Please be appointed by the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u54	I said it was the last time it was voted, with proposals. [[10:59:52]] For 246 Decision taken. The factions, please. Region Party 14, Fatherland 71, Impact 32, Sovereign European Ukraine 27, Freedom 34, Economic Development 27, Company 0, non-fractional 40. Dear colleagues, the next issue of our agenda is the suspension of the authority of the Ukrainian national deputy. I inform you that according to the first part of article 81 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the National Deputy of Ukraine, Arsenija Petrovich Yacenuk, has written an application for his resignation in connection with his appointment as Prime Minister of Ukraine. In accordance with our Rules, honourable national MPs have put to the vote the proposal to suspend the authority of Ukraine’s national deputy Arsenija Petrovich Yatsenuk for a term period of time. Please vote. [[11:01:04]] For 290 Decision taken. I am also addressing other national MPs who have been elected to public office to make applications in accordance with the Rules so that the Supreme Council can decide on this issue. Please, the people's deputy of Schweik.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u55	Dear colleagues! Igor Schwaika, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. In connection with the election of the minister of agropolitics, please accept my application and support the cancellation of parliamentary powers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u56	Dear colleagues, and National Deputy Sich, I understand he wants to make a similar statement, as well as the National Deputy Mohnik. Please
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u57	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! In connection with the election of the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, I ask that you accept my application to terminate the term of office of the Ukrainian National Deputy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u58	Thank you. National MP Mohnik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u59	National MP Andrey Mohnik, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear colleagues, please accept my application for the suspension of parliamentary powers in connection with the election of the Minister of Environment and Natural Resources of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u60	Ladies and gentlemen, we must vote separately for each and every one of us. That's why I'm putting to the vote a motion for a permanent suspension of the power of the national deputy of the country of Switzerland. Please make up your mind by voting. [[11:03:07]] For-286 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I am putting to the vote a motion for a permanent suspension of the authority of the National Deputy of Ukraine Sich. Please make up your mind by voting. [[11:03:33]] For – 282 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I am putting to the vote a motion for a permanent suspension of the authority of the Ukrainian national deputy Mohnik. Please decide how to vote. [[11:03:58]] For 281 281 votes. Decision taken. I thank the respected members of the government for their responsibilities. Dear colleagues, I ask you to return to the order of the day. And now we're going to discuss with you the important issues that the Supreme Council has been discussing for a long time, which our electorate has been talking about, our citizens, but which decisions have not been made. We have several laws that apply to the cancellation and limitation of the benefits of national deputies. I would ask, my fellow Members, in view of the many observations that the Supreme Council is working in extreme mode, that we should still return to normal, efficient, well-thought-out work, so that each decision will be voted upon after the procedure has passed. So, at the request of many deputies, we will be voting on laws that are pre-drafted, in the first reading, and after working on the committees, the work on the profile committee is already being adopted as a whole. Is there no objection? There's no objection. Dear colleagues, the word is given to the national deputy Pinzenik Viktor Mikhailovich. Please. Come on, Victor Mikhailovich, I'm sorry, let's define the procedure. Please proceed. National MP Rosenko, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u61	By procedure. Knowing the situation, knowing that you, as Head of the Supreme Council, are going to be a little busy right now, we don't, in principle, object to short-circuit procedures under the bill. But the only thing, Alexander Valentine's Day, is we have a two-for-two procedure, two-again. We already have 5, at least 6, factions and other non-fractional MPs. That's why there's a proposal: after the interviewers come forward, there's a two-minute performance for each faction, that's a faction discussion, not two for, two for against.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u62	I got it. Suggestion: Discuss the reduced procedure, allow the factions to speak. No objection, dear colleagues? I ask you to support this proposal and vote in favour of the summary procedure. Please, who's "for," please. Who's up for it, honourable deputies, who's up for it, who's up for it, who's up for it. [[11:06:38]] For 215 Decision taken. I'm going to the Supreme Council Secretariat. I was asked by the members of the Party of the Regions that their bill on this issue was not put forward. I ask you to find out the reasons and, in the case of technical reasons, to include this bill. Please. Please, Victor Mikhailovich, start the report.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u63	The honourable national deputies, the presiding officer, have not been able to take two years before the law on the abolition of the parliamentary benefits was finally put into the order of the day. This law was introduced in 2012. The existence of unjustifiable privileges for individual groups of people, especially those authorized to represent the interests of society in its representative authorities, is an entirely abnormal thing and is unacceptable from an economic or moral standpoint. This is all the more unacceptable under the conditions that the country is now in need of action first of all from power. Actions that involved the very limitations of power. I would like to highlight the most fundamental things of the law that are proposed to be adopted. Payment of salaries is cancelled to deputies who have ceased to exercise their duties for one year, in individual cases for two years, and in some cases before retirement of 50 percent of the salary of an active member. The payment of two months of medical assistance on vacation is cancelled. It cancels the payment of 12 months' official salary on retirement of the National Deputies. Free travel to sanatorium is cancelled for the treatment of members of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. State insurance is being abolished at the expense of the national budget of the Ukrainian people’s deputies. Next. Serious changes are made to free passage. The right of a national deputy to use all modes of transport is revoked free of charge. Instead, deputies are expected to set a limit on the cost of travel for the exercise of parliamentary powers. And every MP has to invest within this limit. An extremely important standard of this law applies to housing. The right to housing is being revoked.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u64	Please finish the dates.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u65	The right to receive residence or compensation to improve living conditions for Ukrainian national deputies has been revoked. For MPs who are territorially more than 30 kilometers [30 km] away from Kiev, it is possible to issue a limit on the cost of renting a hotel at the expense of their own funds. At the same time, the application is made. The list of deputies who have applied and need these funds is subject to mandatory publication in the newspaper Voice of Ukraine. This law does not contain the problem of pension insurance. And I'd like to emphasize why. The fact is that the special pension scheme has not only Ukrainian national deputies, but more than ten categories of Ukrainian citizens. In this regard, it is suggested that one law should separate us from each other that, as of this year, there will never again be a repetition of the situation when we have dozens of pension laws. For all Ukrainian citizens, including deputies and other categories of Ukrainian citizens, the pension must be granted by the only law, by the only rules. Work and employment should be the basis for all pensions. And the last thing I'd like to stress. Ladies and gentlemen, the law that we are considering will soon be two years. If we do not adopt the law in the first reading and in general today, we will never accept it. In this regard, our faction proposes that this law be voted on as a basis and as a whole. There's nothing to debate here. The request of the hall to determine and uphold this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u66	Thank you. People's deputies please sign up. Factions please sign up. Are we all leaving now? Everybody right now, okay, no problem. Then let's all go now. I would like to introduce you to the words of the national deputy of the Ukraine of the Yavorovsky Volodymyr Aleksandrovitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u67	Dear parliamentarians, dear voters! This bill I've already passed with a beard like that, and I think it's already passed from there. Apparently, he was being considered, and Mr. Ephraim wrote back to me that he was not in time, this bill, or something like that. The time has finally come. I am convinced that we must solve this problem. What's the point? The point is that when this bill was adopted, I remember it very well, we were sitting here, and then the secretaries of the party were sitting there, and they were very aware of all of these nuances, the moments in which the benefits are how to use them, there, and so on. And in fact, this ideology was introduced into this bill by them. Today, there is a problem with solving it. What is it? There are benefits here that are just funny and that just have to be rejected, because, well, they don't carry anything. Free parking for a people’s MP’s car has found the problem! There are other questions. There are questions, as it were, about feudal, huge unwarranted benefits. A national MP, who has not become a national deputy, for some reason or another, may live completely to retirement or may live to death by finding a variety of lazinesses, such as if he was in school somewhere, and may receive 80 percent of the wages of an active national MP. Well, where is this seen, and why should it be today? I'm absolutely convinced that it's unfair when we go 45 days on vacation and get another salary on top. Please tell me, are we not able to spend a year with you or put away some money and stuff to go on vacation and get yourself a vacation? It's absolutely clear, and it could be reduced, I suggest it in my bill. Just a few more moments.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u68	Please finish the dates.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u69	Yeah, I'm done. Because I think we need a great bill, now you'll hear, Mikli Tomenka. I support a lot of the thesis from the Pinzenic Bill. I'm pretty sure the second reading is about misleading all reasonable suggestions that there are to make one normal law. I'm saying once again, take away these feudal benefits that people are "swimming their eyes," and just "swimming their eyes," and everything will be in place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u70	Thank you. I would like to take you to the floor of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Tomenko Mikola Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u71	Dear colleagues, one such strategic, as it were, sent. We have to tell the community today that obviously everything about the post-Radians model, the so-called hidden or official benefits and privileges, must be reviewed. And we, as national MPs, should show an example, but remember that this system is built throughout the state and must, accordingly, be reviewed, discussed and stopped, and left behind in history. I mean both special life, and the infrastructure of life that's in the police, in the prosecutor's office, in the courts, in the district administrations, in every ministry, in the central department. I was surprised to learn that we have the smallest amount of money in our system of reward marks, virtually the same as the President says, which money is spent on each other and rewards each other. These are the unacceptable things we have to do. Second position with regard to my bill and my colleagues' bills: Vladimir Yavorowski, colleague of the UDA. What Andrew Kožemykin and I did, in this case I do not promote myself, and I support most of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I'll remind you that before the 2012 budget was approved in the Final Positions and Transitional Budgets Act, the benefits of the National Deputies, which have already been in place for one year, were suspended. Unfortunately, the 2013 budget, or whatever, was accepted and the benefits were restored, so in fact, Cosmetics and I rewrote the word that has been suspended and put into practice, meaning exotic benefits that no one uses: parking, there and so on, and healing, material aid, money for apartments, that is, what people require of us. That's why I'm aspiring for my bill, and if there's a whole vote, it's the most prepared one, and let me vote in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u72	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! I'm asking you to sign up for the factions. Please sign up from factions, from the committee. From the committee, please, Happy. And I'd like you to sign up for the factions for the performance.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u73	Thank you. Dear colleagues! As we know, this bill has actually been on a regulatory committee for almost a year and a half controlled by the Party of the Regions. We have repeatedly insisted on passing this bill to a regulatory committee. On one occasion it was made, but most, which was, again, controlled by the Party of the Regions, no decision was taken on this issue. So I would be very happy to tell you right now about the position of the regulatory committee, and it should be clear and clear. I repeat what I said on the Regulatory Committee: we are obliged to review the status of the benefits that are enjoyed today by the National Deputies and to bring them to European standards. Instead, three bills: 1075, 1075-1, 1075-2, as well as that bill that was agreed upon by the leaders of the factions Klick, Yatsenuk and Tajnibok, have not yet been considered in the session room. Therefore, I propose to the people's deputies, in fact, the decision of the regulatory committee is somewhat paradoxical: "A protocol commission has been given to the subcommittee on security for the activities of the Supreme Council and the National Deputies, to generalise the legislative proposals made and to prepare proposals for amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputies on the Cancellation of Guarantees for the Activities of People's Deputies." All right, guys, there's no decision by the regulatory committee on this, so the session room needs to be defined today. People are waiting for us to make that decision. And I very much hope that it will be approved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u74	Thank you. People's deputies, please. From the Faction of the Party of Vitalia Klitschka Kaplin. Rosenko? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u75	Paul Rosenco, Vitaly Klitschka Faction. I want us to not, indeed, delay the process today, create any additional committees of procedure and so on and so forth. Today we must make a decision, a decision is one and only. So, in truth, this bill was introduced by the impact faction almost a year and a half ago. A year and a half ago we did. For a year and a half, we couldn't get it into the agenda. Today a new coalition has been created, and this has actually succeeded. Today, we must decide to cancel all the benefits of Ukraine’s national deputies. Therefore, we propose that the law be voted on as a basis and as a whole. But I would like everyone to understand that the problem of the system of benefits in Ukraine is much deeper than the benefits to Ukrainian national deputies. Today, there are 18 million people in Ukraine. In order to process and fund all the benefits, aid, compensation that is needed today, according to the law in force, the budget is to spend about 160 billion dollars a year. So I encourage the government to approach the aid reform system in Ukraine in an integrated manner. It should not be that a person who receives a thousand dollars of pension does not benefit from any benefits, and we have categories of high-income workers, prosecutors, judges, and so on, who receive wages of 5, 6, 7 thousand dollars and have the right to free passage, and to not pay for utility benefits and services in Ukraine, such a system needs to be destroyed. Destroy, and now. And we need to set an example today. Reforms begin with power, reforms begin with national MPs. That's why we're proposing.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u76	Thank you. Here's to the words of the national deputy Jeremeyev. From the "North European Ukraine" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u77	Dear head, distinguished national MPs! Ukrainian people! The benefits are the consequences of the Soviet Union. Each portocrat, each official in the Soviet Union, had benefits on certain issues. And today, throughout the period of independence of Ukraine, every political power, every leader who went to the elections, said, "We're in favour of lifting the benefits to the national MPs." The Group of People's Deputies of "North European Ukraine" believes that today it is necessary to make a decision on the difference of the benefits. We're in a deep political crisis, we're in a deep economic crisis, and what's more, we've decided that we're going to take all the steps to make Ukraine a European state. And it is the highest legislative body in Ukraine, with 450 national deputies, that should show this first step. And I believe that today every national MP in this room should vote in favour of withdrawing the benefits. This will be the first step that shows that we understand which country we want to build. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u78	Thank you. May I have the floor of the People's Deputy Pisarenko, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u79	Unfortunately, honourable colleagues today do not have yet another bill concerning the removal of parliamentary benefits. It's a bill that we're preparing, and unfortunately, it wasn't made as an alternative today. But I want to tell you one thing: Those bills that are about to be voted on, we will support them. But they're designed, which is two years ago, which is even more. And then, I want to remind you, they were always political compromises. We worked out an uncompromising solution: take it all away. I would like to remind you that the benefits are the greatest of the deputies who are no longer deputies, or previous vocations. They're using the biggest benefits. And we need to, we need to, if we want to do something, cancel everything. In our bill 4125, it says that the deputy has one single salary left. If you are willing to take such a step, not to play politics, we now propose to put to the vote this bill, ready to vote it all at once, and after that the word "spill" will disappear from the political history of Ukraine forever. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u80	From the Economic Development Group, please the People's Deputy Philippeenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u81	Thank you. Dear colleagues, distinguished voters, all who are watching us now. Indeed, this is a matter that we are addressing today, it is essential and vital that we personally be adults in the spirit before it is necessary to undo all of this. So today we have three bills. In these bills, both benefits and financial benefits are eliminated as much as possible. But every bill fits different categories of benefits. I want to say that here, really, it was called Law 4125, which unfortunately is not included in the discussion right now, it's actually kind of radical and it leaves only their deputy salary behind. I want to tell the voters the numbers we're talking about right now, but they're not. For example: an official delegation hall -- about a million dollars is being allocated; material aid (part of article 20 of the Law on the Status of Deputies), imagine, 34,000 dollars per 450 deputies -- is 15 million dollars. There are also funds for parliamentary activity. If you multiply them, there are neither many nor few 94 million dollars. So we've just talked about the economy of 110 million dollars. The "Economic Development" faction fully supports the need for cancellations and benefits, and for financial benefits, especially for former vocations. Moreover, I would like to point out that of the three bills we cannot now vote in general so that we, God forbid, do not cause trouble and then turn to the courts for years, and we have not saved the people, and we have increased the costs that the state will pay to the former MPs. So our proposal is: we want to vote on the basis. We will officially support the Tomenka bill because it is the most complete, the most complete and the closest to the 4125 bill, the maximum cancellation of the benefits and the cutting of the costs. What is more, we ask that we put to the vote in short periods of consideration before preparing for the second reading and that we also support it. We have a decision to make today. But come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u82	Please finish the dates.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u83	Working as the Supreme Council is responsible and working through committees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u84	Thank you. Here's to the words of the national deputy of Gordienka, the faction of the Communist Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u85	Dear colleagues, honourable citizens of Ukraine, I would like to remind you that the faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine in all its callings has stood in the positions of limitation and elimination of the same benefits as the Ukrainian national deputies. I'm paying attention to all of you to look at this. In all of the calls, the faction of the Company of Ukraine voted unanimously for their elimination. We are paying attention to this, and we should point out that there are benefits, and there is something that really provides for the activities of the Ukrainian national deputy, and we need to pay attention to that and to that we have a balanced attitude. Today, it would be objectively right to approach, and I myself support the previous speaker, that we need to adopt the very basis of the bill, that we should assign a reduced procedure to prepare it for the second reading on the basis of these same bills, and that we should vote unanimously, leaving only what truly provides for the parliamentary activities of the Ukrainian National MP. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u86	May I have a word with you from the faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union of Shevchenko Alexander Oxynthyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u87	Please pass the word to Mikhalchino.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u88	Please turn on the microphone to Jurk Mikhalchin.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u89	Honourable Ukrainian national MPs, certainly the faction of the All-Ukrainian Union "Freedom" strongly supports any initiatives that are now in the process of restoring social justice. We are clearly in favour of extending the category of persons who are subject to reduced benefits and privileges. Today, not only do we need to talk about canceling so - called benefits for Ukrainian national deputies but also for all other high - ranking workers. It's about the President of Ukraine, it's about ministers of the Cabinet of Ministers, it's about members of the government, it's about prosecutors of all levels, about judges, high-level employees of the Ministry of Taxation and other repressive, fiscal government bodies. But it's very interesting to see how the biggest advocates of social justice in this session room are now the millionaire MPs and, without five minutes, the billionaires, who, of course, can now easily pretend to be advocates of the oppressed and disadvantaged Ukrainians. However, I remind you that in June of this year, we had a bill in this session hall that was passed jointly by Oleg Tajnibok, Arsenij Yatsenuk, and Vitaly Klitschko. And this bill has been disgracefully ruined, including by the forces of those who are now pretending to be national bleachers and advocates of disadvantaged workers. So, society, I want to remind you that we're going to do the right thing by saying, "No one is forgotten, nothing is forgotten." In addition, the U.S. Freedom Union insists that the maximum amount of money available to all high-income workers should not exceed the ten living minimums foreseen for those who have lost their jobs in the future. And in general, at the present critical time, of course, we have to show an example when we ask the country to pull the straps to overcome the crisis, first of all we have to go out to the people and take this step ourselves, without coercion, demonstration, in principle, sequentially and without any restrictions or distortions. Then, we really have to demonstrate right now the true sincerity of our intentions, to give up cheap populism, when billionaires and millionaires, sorry, from the king's side, show that they're giving up some nonessential benefits.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u90	Please finish the dates.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u91	So once again, I would like to stress that we will now address the issue of refusing and canceling all benefits and privileges for those who have built authoritarian regimes over the years for those who have built a corrupt law-enforcement system, who have built a disgraceful sales attorney's office and a prostituted court branch of power. It will also include judges of the Constitutional Court who broke the back of the Ukrainian people and broke the back of the constitutional system. It's going to be the Attorney General's Office, which turned into a reprisal-punishment body, like the Procurator's Office of the Stalin era of the Visinski era. It's going to be the IMF that wanted to take over the function of the NCD of Barry's time; the BSO that wanted to be a security guard like the GPU of Yagoda and Menzhinski. We're going to make them all, including in our own pocket, pay for crimes against the Ukrainian people. Thank you for your attention. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u92	Here's to the words of the Ariev People's Deputy, the "Fatherland" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u93	Dear colleagues, the previous speaker literally removed some of these from his tongue. We were told that the government was a Kamikade. We were told that people should wear belts, that there would be no improvement. So first, we have an improvement that we have for many years, from that improvement to ourselves. Only in that case, if we're all asking the people to pull the straps, will the people understand that only when we do it first. And in this case it is not just the bills to abolish the benefits of Ukrainian national deputies that need to be considered. We should, by the way, expand these issues, especially my colleague has made a very reasonable suggestion that the National MP cannot receive both the salary of the deputy and the pension he receives from the Pension Fund. It's got to be, there's got to be something left. We urgently need to approve, I ask the chairman of the protocol to give to the regulatory committee, to the national deputies who want to do so immediately, within one week at a time, to draft bills on the abolition of government benefits, on the abolition of the crazed benefits to the judges of the Constitutional Court, to the judges of the general jurisdiction, to the prosecutors. Excuse me: when a pensioner receives a thousand dollars of pension, he often can't get a subsidy for municipal services, and the prosecutor has a 50 percent, a minimum 50 percent, a discount of several thousand dollars, that needs to be cancelled immediately today. We should definitely give up any payment of material aid to government officials and all those who work.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u94	Please finish the dates.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u95	And to all who work today in the public or state sphere. This needs to be done now, immediately, because the sentence is empty today, and we have to give it up first today. I ask you very much for a week to do it, to make it and to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u96	Thank you. Please, from the non-fractional People's Deputies of Griesenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u97	Dear colleagues, I rarely speak, I want to say two important things besides this bill. I will vote in favour of all three to make it through: the benefits have to be lifted. But the two questions of others are very important. They say, "the government of kamikaze." Why did some take emergency parachutes with them? I'm asking for your attention! The Kabmin Act, which we reaffirmed yesterday, requires that each member of the government make an immediate application for the appointment of a deputy. And pay attention! - this is voted in the same session where the government is approved. Why didn't they do it yesterday? So I demand immediately that all members of the government, just as Yatzenuk and the members of Freedom did, also that all members of the government, like Natzbank, as well as the PNB, also all others, write a statement of approval. And then there won't be another question that I'm going to ask. The coalition now has 258 people. Why the vote of 237 - 240? Where's the coalition? There must be no such thing as people don't come to meetings. If there's a coalition, it means at least 258. Because if today other members of Parliament, such as myself, who don't join the coalition, didn't vote for it, we might even fail that decision, which is very important, according to a political assessment. A new team, first of all, to drop the parachutes; second, to vote disciplinedly, to set an example. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u98	Please, it's from the Committee, Andrey. Please. It's a professional committee, Andrey. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u99	Honorable National Deputies, reverend people of Ukraine! You know, it's nice to see how this session hall has seen how all the national MPs in one voice begin to talk about the need to cancel the parliamentary benefits, while this bill was not even possible to bring to the committee's attention. Thank you for that. But, you know, there's some surrealism in our conversation with you here. People are now asking questions about the illustration of the national MPs, people are now asking questions about the illustration of former civil servants, and we are discussing with you whether it's appropriate or not. There are no two answers: appropriate. And the vote should take place today because you have to go out with people. That's the first one. The other one. I want to comment on what Anatoli Stepanovich said. Arsenius Yatzenuk wrote an application for credentials, and the national deputies present today in the hall wrote an application for credentials. Those people's deputies, convinced that they are now working in the ministries of 24-hour workload, will come here to write statements, you can be sure that's how it's going to be. There is now a National Security and Defence Council, and now we are looking at more ambitious decisions, including those before that, which have been considered by the Supreme Council. So with regard to the benefits: friends please support, please finish the conversation on this subject, go out to people, say "I'm sorry" and start moving on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u100	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! Let's prepare for the vote. I'll ask you to invite all the national deputies to the hall. It's a complicated, difficult law. We've heard, we've all done, we've done, we've done a short procedure, we're about to go to the vote on the bills that are registered: 1075, 1075-1 and 1075-2. Please invite all the deputies. Turn on Sergei Sassa's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u101	Thank you. Deputy Sas, Fatherland. Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! Unfortunately, the committee wasn't determined on the prospect of adopting these laws, and I would like to suggest that we don't consider this issue in the context of approaching the presidential campaign as another particular pianist, but approach it in a national way. Here was suggested the question of the first reading of one vote, all correct and in the second reading take into account everything. But, dear fellows, today, a good bill introduced by "THE KNOCK," a good bill introduced by Tomenkom, and an even better one introduced by Yavorowski, an un tabled bill introduced by Thighnibok, Klick and Yatzenuk, which was rejected. Dear colleagues, the reduced procedure for second reading involves seven days. So that nothing is lost in this situation, so that we're still aware of what we're accepting, I propose that all the bills be sent by a reduced procedure for seven days before the regulatory committee. Seven days later, to vote on all of this in general — and to finish the subject forever, united, using all of it. Because if we now vote in the first stroke reading, we won't be able to count all the others in the second reading. Instead of using it as a pyar, let us go according to part two of article 110 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]] Because.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u102	Thank you. Victor Pinzenik's motive. Let's go vote, society, well, we'll talk for a long time.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u103	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to immediately state that the strike party faction will vote in favour of any law, an important decision for us, not who is the author of the law. You know, I'm a bit of a bearded MP, and I really understand what's going on in the hall. Dear friends, don't blame your soul. Any attempt not to vote on the law today, any attempt to improve the law have one thing: unwillingness to cancel the parliamentary privileges. Let's move step by step, step by step. If there's any improvement, make it a law tomorrow, we'll vote for it. But today the country has to get rid of the parliamentary benefits and privileges, and the law must therefore be voted on as a basis and as a whole. And I ask you to put it to a vote under the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u104	Respectable Society! I'm going to ask all the national deputies to the session room and now we're going to the vote. So, your honor, I'm consistently putting it in the order of the daily bill. A bill (registration number 1075) is put to the vote (author of the national MP Klitschko and a large number of other deputies). The entire UDA faction to amend the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputies of Ukraine on the abolition and limitation of the benefits. Based on the base. Please vote. [[11:42:53]] For 243 Decision taken. [[Applause]] Dear National Deputies! In line with article 102 of Part Four of the Law on the Rules, taking into account the comments made by the national deputies. Stop. I beg you to wait! Is there a note in the National Deputies? Or we can move on, given that there is no conclusion on the profile committee that is now. Calm down! Let's talk about it. There is a suggestion of the National Deputies to propose a reduced procedure to move to the second reading, to move. How do we vote? All of it? Are you ready? Are you ready to vote in general? Let's put it on. Ladies and gentlemen, we put to the vote a bill (No. 1075) amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputies of Ukraine on the abolition and limitation of the benefits in general. Please vote. [[11:44:20]] For 301 Decision taken. Thank you. The factions, please. Region Party 55, Parenthood 69, Impact Vitalia Klicka 35, Sovereign European Ukraine 25, Freedom 31, Economic Development 25, Company 22, Postfraction 39. Thank you. Information, please. Nestor Schuffritch, please, a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u105	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman, Your Honor, for agreeing with the Head of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, I have the right to inform you of my telephone conversation with him. I want to remind you that I know the Crimean Parliament very well. In due time, I had the privilege of being the elected deputy to the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. I want to tell you that there are wonderful people there, a wonderful land. And Kostinov Vladimir Andriyovich, the speaker of the Crimea Parliament, said that today they have asked to consider exclusively the extension of the rights of autonomy of Crimea, which they have been talking about for more than ten years, and in fact since the adoption of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the Constitution of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, nothing has been said about. And there's no way it's about.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u106	Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u107	And in no case are we talking about the withdrawal of autonomy from our country. That's why I'm asking now that we all pay attention to each other. If a region in many, many years, not just now, has certain requests and asks them to hear them, I think we need to respond appropriately and avoid any speculation and radical moods. I am convinced that we will find a dialogue and resolve during the dialogue all the pressing issues that concern both the criminals and the whole of Ukraine. So please refrain from harsh statements and act solely in the direction of dialogue, understanding and respect for one another. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u108	Thank you. Hennady Hennadiovich Moskal, please. Society, we're back to square one.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u109	Deputies, don't listen to lies, there was no quorum. There were 47 deputies. It's less than the Crimean Parliament, more than half. All decisions taken by the Crimean Parliament are illegal, and the Supreme Council is to dissolve the Crimean Parliament today.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u110	Respectable Society! Rosenka, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u111	Paul Rosenko, strike faction. Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! In my last vote for the Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine, I did not have a ballot. That's why I'm officially stating that the vote "for" of this bill is listed. I will submit the official statement accordingly to the secretariat of the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u112	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the next item of the agenda. Your opinion is on the draft Decree (Registration No. 4209) on Distrust of the National Council of Ukraine on Television and Broadcasting as a result of the 2013 report. I would like to invite the National Deputy of Ukraine, Mikol Leonidovich, to the floor. Honorable Society, what is the proposal regarding the procedure for dealing with the matter? Please, Rosenko. One second, now, we're going to vote on the procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u113	Mr. Ruslan, I propose the same procedure as in the previous question: a reduced procedure with the possibility of speaking from every faction of Ukrainian national deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u114	Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the proposal of the People's Deputy Rosenck for a simplified procedure for dealing with this issue. I'd like to turn on the "Ray" system. [[11:49:06]] For 197 Decision taken. May I have the floor of the People's Deputy of the Prince.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u115	Thank you. Yesterday, the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Media reviewed the 2013 report submitted by the National Council. What is the procedure? If this report is not accepted simultaneously by the Supreme Council of Ukraine and by the President of Ukraine, or by the acting President of Ukraine, who has the right to do so under the Constitution, then we are adopting a Regulation on Distrust in the Supreme Council -- and a new Supreme Council, four men from Parliament and four men from the President. There was none of the representatives of the National Council, since three members of the National Council headed by the National Council of Manjos wrote an application for exemption. So in the National Council and the work is already blocked, and there is no quorum, although the National Council under the Constitution itself is a permanent constitutional body, so it has to work constantly. Therefore, he will not report to the head of the National Council because he has written an application for exemption. I'm going to give you a little bit of this report myself. We know what the situation was in the radio area. In fact, the National Council had representatives of financial and industrial groups who, through a single monopolist with the support of power called Zeonbud, did everything to monopolize television broadcasting, to raise prices for the use of this provider, did not issue a license to opposition companies, as did many of the companies that are close to the MPs and entrepreneurs who supported the Party of Regions, such as the Radio Company Era or many other television companies, and were also illegally denied licenses. The board, refusing licenses, was not governed by any legislation, motivated its refusals, and acted solely on calls from the Presidential Administration. First, after the calls of Ljowochkin, then after the calls of Smyr, about which the head of Nakrada spoke openly. So this organ wasn't independent, it wasn't working effectively. More than 150 local television companies have disappeared or may disappear now. In order for them not to disappear, there are important tasks that will be discussed by the chairman of the committee, Mikola Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u116	Please finish the dates.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u117	Who's gonna come after me. I just want to say that today we have to accept, reject the report, accept mistrust, formulate a new working transparent body that will bring Ukraine's television space into order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u118	Thank you. May I have the floor of the People's Deputy Tomenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u119	Dear colleagues, in today’s situation, there is a great deal of responsibility for information activities in the country. And I have to say that I am grateful for the civilized approach to the situation now, I think, to the former head of the National Council of Vladimir Manjosov, who has come to the question with understanding. He wrote a statement of his own. This statement was made by members of the National Council of the Fartuční Mikola and Larissa Mudrak. Instead, four other members of the National Council wrote exotic statements that they wanted to go on vacation for the month and see what was going to happen next in the country, well, let's say. So I asked very much that we be here, acting completely balanced and on the right side of our position, so that there would be no lawsuits. There was a committee meeting yesterday. On the committee, we discussed the matter and decided to resign the National Council and declare mistrust. This, as we vote today, will apply to the four members of the Nacrada by the quota for the appointment of the Supreme Council. Lawyers are absolutely convinced that failure to accept a report from the National Council is not prohibited by the acting president. That is, if the president’s responsibilities are not accepted by us, the next four will resign. Instead, questions arise when we are assigned. When we make the decision, we'll announce the competition. The competition by law must last 21 days. And I'm going to say, on occasion, that my position as chairman of the committee, that there should be no officials in the Nacradu, MPs, partyists, there, representatives of the financial and political groups. This should be followed by representatives supported by the media, the public, scientists, and authorities. But there's a question in the part of the presidential quarter. Lawyers are studying whether the president’s responsibilities can or cannot be served. I stand in a position that can't be done, that doesn't have the right to give the President a fourth. So we have a fairly responsible situation. So I'd like to vote for the 4209d committee order because it's registered. Give me a minute, Ruslan.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u120	Please finish the dates.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u121	Because it's registered after we've considered the report. The Order of Mikola Knieżický is absolutely literate, correct, identical, but registered two days before. You didn't listen to the report. Because we have only one reason to resign - according to the report. So the request: we only vote 4209d. In case we do that, tomorrow we're going to announce a contest, and already the Voice of Ukraine is talking about what people can do. And we promise that in 21 days, the committee will bring those candidates to the session room for whom you will not be ashamed.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u122	Thank you. Please sign up for the factions. Please turn on the record. National MP of Sikor, faction of the All-Ukrainian Union of Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u123	Please pass the word to Shewchenk Andrew.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u124	Please turn on Chewchenk Andrew's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u125	Friends, I just want to support us in a simple sense that the country deserves a better National Television and Radio Council than we had before. I'm going to remind you that at this Nacradis they took frequencies from the TWA channel of Montenegro and raided the Kharkiv channels. This Nacradi had a booming censor. This Nakrad has conducted a totally corrupt competition on digital language. That's why we need to support it. And, my friends, I urge you to understand that this is really what the National Council's actions on television and radio talk have led to the fact that they also have their share of the responsibility for the tragic events that have taken place in Ukraine. Because the system of lies, the system of censorship, the system, when only one part of the political spectrum is represented and the other part is not allowed to speak, it leads to the situations that we are experiencing right now. But I also urge us to think together about how to avoid repeating what happened. So I suggest we think about the future, and in the future, the creation of a new National Council for Television and Radio, I think we need to put forward a qualitatively higher requirement for a new composition of the National Council. We need to consult a journalist's environment. We need to consult civil society. Very high professional requirements should be made. That there should be people there who would really be on the watch for the truth, on the watch for justice and on the watch for a prosperous, one-in-a-box Ukraine. And when we burn the situation in Crimea, and let the criminals hear us, this National Council on TV and radio talk in the future should also care about the interests of every person living in every region of Ukraine, including Sevastopol and Simferopol. From a formal legal point of view, I support the proposal made by Mikli Tomenka: we must vote in favour of that version of the ruling that was made by the committee on the outcome of the Nacra report at the committee meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u126	Welcome to the word of Igor Miroshnick, the faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u127	Igor Miroshnichenko, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom. Dear Ukrainians, distinguished national MPs! The National Council for Television and Radio is a matter of national security for Ukraine. And from this rostrum myself, my colleagues have repeatedly stressed that we should give as much attention as possible. Unfortunately, for a long time, the left side of the session hall ignored my calls, and, realizing that the National Security and Information Space Foundation had become one of the most corrupt organs that cared for our own pockets, and not cared for national security and information space, it was just as stubborn to hold on to those members of the Nacrada who had essentially allowed our information space to occupy the neighbouring state. What did this lead to? This led to a division of society. This led to a distortion of information about the real events in Kiev. This led to an exacerbation of the situation in Crimea and eastern Ukraine when people objectively do not have information about what is happening in the country’s capital. The country must be saved immediately, including in the information space and state interests plan itself. In order to return the information space to Ukraine, this information space must certainly change the composition of the National Television and Radio Council. By supporting the head of our committee, Mikola Tomenko, in the part for which we have to vote in order to initiate the re-launching of the Nacrada members as soon as possible, I would also like to urge the new Nacrada and all of us to pay attention to the very important things that the Nacrada has not done in the field of television and radio talk. It did not provide the constitutional right of all Ukrainians to maintain objective information, especially information from state television channels and state radio. I registered a provision on some of the security issues.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u128	Please finish the dates.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u129	30 seconds, society, it's very important. In short, we voted and returned to the state property of Mizgir, which had been stolen from the Ukrainian people. Similarly, in the information space, Ukrainians stole a number of frequencies and were handed over to companies close to Yanukovic, which can provide information security and guarantee information to every Ukrainian. This decision, registered by me, guarantees the return of these frequencies to government property and their transfer to the National Radio Company of Ukraine. It will be able to cover virtually all of Ukraine in the FM range. So I stress that we and this decision are about to be adopted, and the new Naqrad will already be working to ensure its implementation. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u130	Thank you. Welcome to the statement of the People's Deputy Rosenka, the Vitaly Klitschka faction. Please pass the word Heratchenko. Turn on the microphone. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u131	Dear colleagues, I'm not going to add epithets to the previous Nakrad, which, apparently, we have to resign by the constitutional majority today, my colleagues have said everything. Obviously, we have to think about the future of the Nacradu and not let the directors of the garbage plants that are working there now, and the ladies who make ten mistakes in their biographies, though, have to work there. So the position of the strike faction is clear: today's Nakrad, corrupt, is to be retired today. The other one. We ask you to accept this as our request to the new Henprocurorate, as well as to check for corruption the activities of this Nakrad. Because what was distributed there was that it turned into an office by issuing licenses to the right companies, it's obvious. Third. We insist that the Presidential Four be appointed after the election of the new Head of State, and this will be in line with the Constitution of Ukraine. Four. Our party will vote, more faithfully, our faction is in favour of the committee bill of the authorship of Tomenka and other members of the committee because it is more balanced. Fifth. Dear colleagues, we ask all factions of MP groups to avoid this time the quota principle of Nacrada formation. They refused to put up party candidates, and they called on public organizations to finally get TV professionals and lawyers in the field of media. And then we're going to get, at last, a normal, professional Nacradu that's going to take care of, not the corrupt distribution of licenses, but of what media space is going to take care of: the information space. And the last. Mr. Koshulinsky and all my dear colleagues! The electoral campaign was launched, and we have with you to vote first, number 4283: a moratorium on media screening during the electoral campaign. We always vote with you after the election campaign, and it's desirable that we do it now.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u132	Please finish the dates.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u133	And it's desirable for them to do it now, not when the campaign is on fire. So I'm asking you on the next session day to set up this decree, number 4283, there's a large copyright team. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u134	Thank you. From outside, please turn on the microphone to the national MP Zurawski.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u135	Dear colleagues! There are two documents 4209 and 4209 with an "d" badge, two draft regulations. I propose to vote and support the draft Decree 4209d, because from a legal point of view it is less vulnerable, more balanced and perfect. And let's give a green street for the work of the new National Council of Ukraine on television and radio. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u136	Dear National Deputies! I invite you to prepare for the vote. We're moving to the vote, please invite all the national deputies to the session room. As long as our national deputies go to the session hall, the announcement. According to the application and in accordance with part three of article 60 of the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I report the departure of the Ukrainian National Deputy Oneštenka Aleksandra Romanović from the membership of the "Supreme European Ukraine" Group. Please give the floor to the People's Deputy, the author of the bill. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u137	Since my determination and the determination given by Nicholas Tomenck are identical, I am taking my choice off. We vote in favour of the order of Mikli Tomenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u138	Thank you. People's deputies, please prepare for the vote. Dear National MPs, I'm voting on the draft Decree 4209d: the statement of mistrust by the National Council of Ukraine on television and radio broadcasting as a result of the 2013 report -- on the basis and overall. Please vote. [[12:05:33]] For 221 The decision is not taken. Ladies and gentlemen, please turn on the microphone to the People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u139	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, I'd very much like to ask you to give a command to shut down the fucking mother buffet and invite the national deputies to the session room to their jobs and work. Because now a decision has been broken, which, in large accounts, is an assessment of the work of the National Television and Radio Council, which for four years has actually been one of the pillars of the Yanukovich regime and its contribution to those events that have taken place in Ukraine in recent months, not less than in the case of Berkut, Clovis Zacharychenka and others. So I call on all the national deputies to come to the session room, to return to the vote, and to support this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u140	Please turn on the microphone of the Peacekeeper Igor.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u141	Igor Miroshnichenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. I would now like to address the commies who have not voted in favour of this decree. Maybe they're holding on to the press secretary of Georgievsk, who, after working for a month and a half as a member of the Nacrada, wrote an application for leave at the expense of taxpayers. Now you're going to go to Midan and you're going to tell me that you're talking about the Ukrainian people who fought the Yanukovich regime from their newspapers and from their TV channels that belong to your leader. If you do not now vote for the mistrust of the National Council on Television and Radio, we guarantee you an answer and a statement on Maidan to each of you. How many can be bullied by Ukrainians? How many of them can be associated with their propaganda? It is a disgrace to anyone who has not voted in favour of this decree!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u142	National Deputy Heratchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u143	Colleagues!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u144	I'm asking for suggestions. What are some of the suggestions?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u145	Dear colleagues, the offer of the Vitalia Klitschak Faction. First, go back to the vote. And second, it's still responsible to treat him. Dear colleagues, there is a great deal of talk going on here as to how much the Supreme Council of Ukraine is responsible for its irresponsible position in the tragedy that took place in Ukraine. We have every vote to atone for this guilt. How can we not vote for the resignation of a corrupt Nakrad who did not engage in an information space that did not engage in children's programs, educational programs, but merely to tear up corrupt channels and licenses? And how much is in this room. In the second part of this room, people who came forward complained about this Nakrad. You know how corrupt they are. And as for Communists, you know, respectable colleagues, it's a shame to put on the job of people who even write illiterately. Do you have a very short bench of spares that you Communists can't delegate a literate person? Stop her, please! Don't be shy! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u146	People's MP Tomenko and Dry, and we're done.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u147	Dear colleagues, I want to address the people. I'm so aware that there's some part of it that hasn't been figured out about the situation. So the Nakrad in the present warehouse is no longer working and will not work. People have written statements. That part that didn't file a release application wrote a vacation application, and it's not going to happen either. She's not going to work, I understand. We are now voting to announce the competition and form the Nakrad. Not voting means that there will be no body at all where no decision can be taken to respond to the situation in the country. Friends! Please don't embarrass those members of the Nacraada, half of them have already written their statements, they won't work. It's about an institutional decision now, how do we start to form a new composition as soon as possible. What are we debating?Oh, my God! So once again, Mikola Knieżicki is absolutely right, and he has the same determination. Well, I'm worried about getting back to the committee's ruling, because it makes it clear that the only reason we have this release is because we don't accept the report. So I'd like to ask Vice Speaker to go back to the vote and realize once again that we're voting for better media representatives from tomorrow and we're with you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u148	National Deputy Suhi. And let's go to the vote. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u149	Dear colleagues! Jaroslav Suchy, the city of Zaporozhye I would like to remind everyone that in this session hall, on many occasions I personally and the national deputies of Ukraine from Zaporozhye asked questions about the then leadership of Nacrada, as it happened, that the license to numbers had been denied all the prison TV channels, and instead, some channels had come out that had no voice, and they were all registered in one place: the Donetsk Region. And then we asked questions of mistrust and resignation. That's why I'm addressing the Ukrainian people's deputies. I'm just asking you: let's do it without emotion, let's do it without pressure. We must surely vote that this National Council of Ukraine on TV and radio should resign so that we can form a council that is not for corrupt reasons but for normal reasons that are provided for by legislation. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u150	Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the proposal of the National Deputies to return to question No. 4209. Ladies and gentlemen, please vote, and please return to the session room. I'd like to turn on the "Ray" system. [[12:12:06]] For 239. Decision taken. [[Applause]] I am voting on the draft decree (register No. 4209d) to express my mistrust to the National Council of Ukraine on television and radio broadcasting as a result of the 2013 report. On the basis and in general. Please vote. [[12:12:39]] For 242 Decision taken. [[Applause]] The factions, please. Region Party 21, Fatherland – 65, Hit by Vitalia Klicka – 36, Sovereign Ukraine – 26, Freedom – 30, Economic Development – 26, Ukraine – 0, non-fractional – 38. Let us move on to the next item of the agenda, a respected society. As long as we're ready, the announcement. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine and article 60 of the Ukrainian Law on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, according to the application of its membership in the parliamentary group "Economic Development", Dimitrik Mikola Illich, Žuravsky Vitaly Stanislavovich and Šipko Andri Fedorovich provided. Ladies and gentlemen, your opinion is on the proposal of Decree No.4280 on improving the activities of the income and congregation bodies, the Mishchenka National Deputy Project. We have a continuous job, I remind you, a respectable society. We have continuous work, and as it were, rest is not yet shining. As soon as we're ready, we'll work. I invite you to the floor of National Deputy Mishchenka Sergey Grigorovich. Dear Society, there is a proposal for a reduced procedure. I am voting on a reduced procedure for dealing with this issue. Please vote. [[12:14:49]] For 205 Decision taken. May I have the floor of the People's Deputy Mishchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u151	Sergei Mishchenko, 98th District, Kyivshina. Ladies and gentlemen of the people, citizens of Ukraine! I think everyone has heard from this rostrum, from the media, a name like Mindh. This body -- the Ministry of Revenue and Assembly -- is the name that was attached to it here in the Supreme Council and journalists, because after this ministry started working, business disappeared, entrepreneurs disappeared, there was huge corruption in this body. And that's why I'm sure this hydra, this monster called the Ministry of Income and Assembly, should not exist. You know we're back in the Constitution in 2004. If in the past the central authorities of the executive branch have eliminated, organized or created the President of Ukraine by decree, this is today, according to the Constitution (art. 116), the prerogative of the Cabinet of Ministers. Therefore, the Supreme Council should recommend that the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine eliminate this so - called body of incomes and congregations, which has disgraced itself in its work, and created two other bodies responsible for tax and customs policy. We're just recommending them. It's the Cabinet of Ministers that will determine that. And one more thing. I'm sure the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u152	Please finish the dates
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u153	That the Supreme Council would support the next sessional week's ruling, which was registered by National Deputys Timoshenko and Mishchenko, regarding the inspection of customs authorities at the time when the ministry was in operation. And to that. I'm sure we'll show you what corruption components were at the customs office during their period of work. So I ask you to support this decision now, and in the next session, to create a temporary commission of inquiry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u154	Thank you. People's deputies, committee head, profile committee. May I have your word, Vitaly Hometic.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u155	Dear colleagues, the decision is more of a formal, political nature. And if it is to be adopted, then the government has to draw up a government decree to implement this decree, because, under the new Constitution, the authority of the executive branch, the division, including, is part of the government. The next step is the Supreme Council to bring legislation, customs legislation, tax legislation into line. This will be more technical matters related to the change of names. If, for information, it is important that today the central DPS and DMS devices still exist as legal persons, uninterrupted or not eliminated, they have approved structures, state records. This means that the heads of the services can be appointed immediately by means of government decrees, and then immediately by appointment of the heads of the central authorities. So this process, he seems to me, as an expert on these issues and committee members, is not going to be long and painful. Thank you for your attention. The committee will support this question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u156	Thank you. Please sign up for factions. Please turn on the record. People's MP Lapina, Fatherland faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u157	Thank you. Lapina, Fatherland faction, Party for Ukraine!".. Dear colleagues, we are simply obliged to adopt this decision right now, because I remind you, when President Yanukovic created the Ministry of Revenue and Assembly at that time, he thus destroyed the country's financial policy, because the Ministry of Finance, as an organ of politics, became responsible only for spending and the Ministry of Revenue and Assembly became responsible only for income. There was no budget balance. In fact, the effects of such pseudopolitics today are being reaped by the country. We have a deep budget deficit today, much deeper than planned. We have to put everything back in place, as it has to be according to the theory, the practice of government. The Ministry of Finance is responsible for income and expenditure policies, the balance of the state budget, and the tax office has to control solely the enforcement of tax legislation and not go into any policy, as does the Customs Service. So we're just giving the first steps towards creating a just system of things in the state. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u158	Thank you. Please turn on the microphone to the national MP, Zibank.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u159	Thank you. The Communist faction, Peter Cibenko, is the head of the Committee on Social Policy and Labour. Dear colleagues, the citizens of Ukraine, we remember that the Ministry was formed by the decree of the President of Ukraine, and in the same decree was the norm passed on to the newly created ministry by the function of administration of the only social contribution. And the Social Policy Committee, which consists of representatives of all but factions, unanimously advocated that the administration of the single contribution should not be taken away from the Pension Fund or transferred to the Ministry. Because the result was a very interesting thing -- when this function was transferred from the Pension Fund of Ukraine to the Ministry, the collection of the only social contribution was 99.6 percent. So today, this is 64 percent. So the funds were damaged, the citizens of Ukraine were affected, the pensioners were injured, the people who were supposed to be paid for hospital bills and so on and so forth. Hence, this injustice, the most violent one that has ever been allowed, must be removed. And I want to emphasize once again, this is the head of the profile committee. In the past, there have been changes to legislation, I repeat, to all the committees, to all the members of the committee, without exception. We begged, "Don't do this nonsense, don't take away the administration of the only social contribution from the Pension Fund, because that's what people are suffering from." Yes, unfortunately, it did. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u160	Please turn on the microphone of the People's Deputy Suškević.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u161	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to present the position of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons in relation to the transfer of the functions of the Ministry of Income and Assembly, the functions of the Pension Fund alone of Ukraine, and what my colleague has just said. Dear friends, the manipulation of state pension funds is unacceptable. Regrettably, the Ministry under the control of Mrs. Royal was directly manipulating the funds of the Pension Fund. At the same time, they relied on a situation where the administration in the collection of these funds was in the "mind", as they say. I support, and I ask as the head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans, Disability of the Professional Committee in the matter of pension reform and the problems of the Pension Fund, the removal of the function and the return of its pension fund to its pension fund. This is an urgent problem, which the authorities have now made not only a mistake but a problem for the pensioners of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u162	Thank you. Before the speech of the People's MP of Peace.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u163	Alexander Mirny, the All-U.S. Freedom Union. Of course, the question that we are considering today is essentially ours as if it were for everyone and everyone. Everyone, and everyone, has their own thoughts, their own opinions, their own wishes. Clearly, the monster who existed and was absolutely ineffective could not be the one who wanted to make it the previous authority. But let's say clearly to each other. If we are different from those who have led the country to this calamity, we should constantly show it. If the Prime Minister of Ukraine comes out, literally yesterday, and claims that there are certain points in the Government's Action Programme, then we should allow these programs to be implemented. And our task with you is not to replace the Public Prosecutor's Office, or the Ministry, or the government, but to ensure that all the structures that take on certain obligations and must carry them out, do them clearly, within specified terms, and do not deviate from the letter and spirit of the law. So I propose that Yatzenyuk be able to address this issue and, as soon as possible, report to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the measures he is willing to take. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u164	Please turn on the microphone to the People's Deputy Pinzenik, from the Vitalia Klitschka faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u165	Ladies and gentlemen of the national parliament, the honourable presiding officer! The impact faction will support this draft decision with one detail, which I'll sound a little bit later. You can't imagine what kind of good management information has every Ukrainian intelligence, but try to get that information. Tax won't pay taxes. Customs doesn't pay taxes. Minfin can't take either. I used to try to verify how many cars are being imported into Ukraine and how many are being registered with DAI for months. There are some information-sharing agreements that mean absolutely nothing. What Is the Customs Authority? The customs office is the same tax office, only it collects taxes on the border. It is not possible to manage, for example by returning VAT, if you do not analyse the flows going through customs, they go through internal VAT. In this regard, it should be the only ministry. It was wrong and wrong to do what was done by the Ministry. And that led to, in fact, the Ministry of Finance being gone, it's institutionally extremely weak. It is not possible to manage the budget if you do not manage the income. So what suggestions do we propose to make? In paragraph 1, after the word "creating" deletes what it says and writes "the only government body subordinated to the Ministry of Finance." This will be the right decision, not the decision, but the recommendation, the request of colleagues with this amendment to support the decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u166	Please, National Deputy Dry of the Economic Development Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u167	Dear colleagues, there must be one lesson in this matter for us, for we are finally repeating ourselves. The lesson should be as follows: Before introducing any new legislation, we need to examine carefully, and how the previous one acted, which we are trying to mark. So, the only social security contribution we've made was on a business demand? Small, and medium, and big business positively met with the introduction of the only social security contribution that raised a lot of issues, including corruption. We've been going for a long time, we've been going through a lot of talks, we've been led by a committee on social policy and work, we've been understood by business, we've been understood by trade unions. The administration was placed on the Pension Fund. Please tell me it was wrong. What was wrong? The pension fund, at its own expense, has created a fine, complete system and a mechanism to disintegrate these contributions. And people who have business-related relations with production will agree with me: insurance contributions were automatically paid, industrial accidents, temporary job losses, births and funerals, unemployment and so on. At the last meeting of the committee, we heard a figure: we didn't get one and a half billion dollars to the Pension Fund, 600 million we didn't get an accident in production, no hospital bills, that sort of thing. And the last. Once again, the only social contribution is not tax, it's not income, it's not stock collection, it's insurance, it's deferred human wages. And to administer it is based on tripartism, not what Ministry of Finance. Forget it! It's public, it's control, and so it is.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u168	Please turn on the microphone to the national MP Teryohin. And we'll make decisions. Terhochin now raised his hand.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u169	Dear colleagues! I would like to remind you that yesterday the Prime Minister of Ukraine from this rostrum said so. Therefore, there is no need for government recommendations. More than that, according to the new Constitution, it's like the exclusive prerogative of the Cabinet of Ministers: to create and abolish some organs, the central organs of the state executive branch. On the contrary, Mr. Chairman, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that we should not recommend something to the government, but rather that we should assign to the committee of profile to prepare changes to the three laws, to the Tax Code, to the Customs Code and to the Law on State Pension Insurance, in order to reproduce the normal government administration, as it was before the creation of the Minzh. So this decision in the way it looks is a naked populism that nobody needs and which is an intervention in the constitutional competence of the Cabinet of Ministers.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u170	Dear National Deputies! I'm asking for a word, and let's get this over with, we're already giving this decision a lot of time. I realize that it is important, but we also have many important questions. Please turn on the microphone on the stand.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u171	I thank everyone very much for the discussion. And I want to re-emphasize the intention of the new government to reform this ministry. I suggest you take it as an editorial, as Mr. Pinzenick has said. It is a principle that you and I know that neither tax nor customs will become central organs of executive power. They must be authorities subordinated to the Ministry of Finance. We need to understand that the Ministry of Finance is an accounting firm that executes the country's budget, and the tax office also collects taxes according to the law. The task set by the government’s team today is to put new faces on the heads of these departments, which will be subordinated to Minfin, not people who have connections or who have served in executive power, who will bear the name of the world’s serious consulting firms as a match. And I want us to understand from this point on, if we make this decision, that we have to form a policy of transparency that is the same for all businesses in Ukraine, so that we don't have "decisions" or who to "return." Please vote in the paper announced by Pinzenik.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u172	Thank you. Honorable National MPs. You haven't spoken, you've already spoken from the faction. Let's vote then. You've already spoken from the faction, everyone's speaking. Ladies and gentlemen, let's come to the vote, and by your vote, you will show your attitude. I ask you to invite all the national deputies to the session room so that we do not return to the question of voting. I'm asking you to invite all the national deputies to the session room. Honourable National MPs, I place the draft Decree (registration number 4280) on improving the activities of the income and assembly bodies (the Mishchenka People’s Deputy Project). Please vote. [[12:34:50]] For 260 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, is there a need to put the project together now with proposals made by the national MPs: Pinzenik, Terjehochin, Kugel and Suskevich?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u173	Please. May I have the head of the committee for the microphone?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u174	Thank you. [[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u175	Dear colleagues, there is a suggestion: To complement what Sergey Anatolyovich Teryohin announced to add one more item, to urgently develop legislation. Together, we're going to make changes to the Tax Code, to the Customs Code, and to other legislative acts so that we don't waste time. Taking these proposals into account: vote in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u176	Now Pinzenik and Cibenko, and we will vote. I'd like the People's Deputy Pinzenic to turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u177	Dear National Deputies! Our faction insists that the first item be presented in a different edition, we've been sounding it, and I've been motivating what it's for. We have no right to act on the principle of employing individuals. We must be guided by the construction of the right system. In this context, it is suggested that after the words "the creation" remove those words that are in the text and replace them with "the only government body subordinated to the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine". Please vote in this order.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u178	Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u179	Thank you. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, I don't want the winners and the winners in this room to be there, please listen to what I'm about to say. When we take away the administration of a single social contribution to one ministry and we give it to another ministry, we don't actually change anything. Because the Ministry was created to fill the state budget. But the point is that the only social contribution is human money, it's orphan money, if you want, and the state can't have an impact on them. So the administration of the only social contribution must be returned to the Pension Fund of Ukraine, and no one else. Otherwise, we will get the same result as when the Ministry of Income and Congregations existed. So once again, I ask you to address this issue: return the administration of the only social contribution to the Ukrainian Pension Fund.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u180	Please turn on the author's microphone, Sergio Mishchenko. And we stop and we move on to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u181	Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to address you with two suggestions. First offer. If we vote for what Mr. Pinzenik told us, I respect him very much as an expert, but we'll do "minfinsed" instead. That's the first one. The other one. This decision is in agreement with the Cabinet of Ministers, and they are likely to make such a decision. So let us now, if we are doing this in order for the Cabinet of Ministers to fulfil their obligations and move on the program, let us vote on what has already been agreed upon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u182	Respectable association, many thoughts. Let's now define everything by voting. We will now put to the vote the proposal made by the head of the profiling committee, taking into account the amendments that have been made. And if it does, then we'll go through every correction. Okay? I am voting on the draft Decree (No. 4280) on improving the activities of the income and congregation bodies with the proposal of the head of the professional committee Homutinnik Vitali Juriovich as a whole. Please vote. [[12:39:20]] For 232 Decision taken. The factions, please. Region Party 36, Fatherland 57, Hit by Vitalia Klicka 1, Sovereign European Ukraine 25, Freedom 31, Economic Development 32, Company 23, non-fractional 27. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the next item on the agenda. We have a draft Law (registration number 4294) on the rehabilitation of persons for the execution of decisions by the European Court of Human Rights. How will we view this law? No discussion? A respected society is proposed to vote without discussion using the ad hoc system. Let's vote for ad hoc without discussion, and then we'll go to the vote. Okay? I'm betting on voting on this issue without discussion, ad hoc: on making a decision without discussion. Please vote. [[12:40:47]] For 238. Decision taken. I am voting on the draft Law (registration number 4294) on the rehabilitation of persons for the implementation of decisions of the European Court of Human Rights on the basis and in general. Please vote. [[12:41:17]] For 268. Decision taken. The factions, please. Region Party: 30, Fatherland: 63, Vitalia Klicka: 34, Sovereign Ukraine: 25, Freedom: 31, Economic Development: 29, Company 23, non-fractional: 33. Dear National Deputies! Please turn on Irina Lucenko's microphone, please. To the rostrum, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u183	Dear national deputies, voting for this law, which has just taken place, is symbolic enough. As I look at the situation in recent years, I believe that the biggest problem we have had today in Ukraine is the problem of the East-West confrontation that has been imposed on us. The war between the political elites, which has taken place since 2005 to this day, has led us to almost lose Ukraine today. We need to get together. We need to turn that page on the story of this ten-year standoff, draw conclusions from it, get together and get Ukraine out of the gap it's in. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u184	Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u185	I am very grateful that you have come to this vote in a responsible manner and have allowed these people, whom the world has recognized as political prisoners, who have spent 2.5 years in prison on chains, rehabilitated, and returned to normal life. Today, there are thousands of people under the walls of the Supreme Council, believe me, I'm primarily addressing the Party of Regions and Non-Factionals. These people have given us today a huge mandate of trust, a huge one. They believe not only the opposition who stood with them in Midan but also you who have found the courage to admit those mistakes, and on the one hand and on the other hand, to return to the hall and work together, are united in Ukraine. So this support of people makes sense to me and believes in the sense of returning a free, democratic, prosperous Ukraine as a joint human project as a joint action plan, as a joint, free, European and democratic Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u186	Thank you, Mrs. Irina. Dear Society, there is an offer to come back to our consideration of the bill on the election of the President of Ukraine. There's an offer. Please turn on the microphone to the National MP Soboljevo.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u187	Sobolev, the Fatherland faction. While the factions were in session, the faction leaders agreed that the three standards that directly affect the electoral campaign, namely the registration of members of district commissions; the registration of advertising prices, will in fact be brought into line with the law on terms that occur if the elections are time-limits. Because we've got an absurd situation: in term elections, terms are faster than deadlines. That's why we bring it into line, and that's how three norms are voted today, and the whole text is voted in the first reading. And in summary, we will continue to adopt the decision in the second reading and in the amendment. That's the offer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u188	Thank you. Please turn on the microphone of the People's Deputy Knazević. Are you on board? About getting in the day-to-day? Ladies and gentlemen, please invite all national deputies to the session room. If there is a proposal for inclusion, we will now vote on the inclusion of these issues in the agenda. Ladies and gentlemen, before your consideration, it is proposed to include Bills 3224, 3224-1 and 3224d in the order of today's session. Please determine by vote the inclusion in the agenda of the bill on the day-to-day. on the election of the President of Ukraine. I'd like to turn on the "Ray" system. Please vote for inclusion in the agenda. [[12:46:56]] For 238. Decision taken. Thank you. I would like to write to the Secretary of the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government of Knazevitch Ruslan. Before we go to the discussion, how are we going to look at -- in short or in full procedure? Short cut? Let's vote whether we have a reduced procedure. Please put to the vote by a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[12:47:39]] For 209 Decision taken. Please, National Deputy Knazevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u189	Thank you, Ruslan Volodymyrovich. Dear colleagues, I will explain to you within two minutes the situation as to why three bills are involved and today there is a fourth. The point is that, given Parliament's decision on the appointment of Ukraine's presidential election on May 25th, we must now settle a whole series of things that are still not regulated by the law that have been in force since 2009. There's a really large number of internal contradictions, a large number of things that have long been incorporated into other laws, and these should have been edited by a new one, but so far so no one. No hands came to them. And the main thing is that there's really a big disagreement between those positions that specifically regulate the holding of out-of-order elections. So the bill, which is the first one before you, 3224 is a bill that I have prepared and applied to virtually all the electoral process, mainly the next election, and was registered in April of last year. Given that this bill, which was registered right before the election, applied to the election of the President, and there was only one alternative bill -- 3224-1 -- so now, let's say, essentially not to change the whole law. The Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government was, for me, the only possible rational decision: using article 110 of the Rules, these two alternative bills were sent to the committee, and the members of the committee, with the participation of representatives of the Central Electoral Commission, with the participation of representatives of the public organisations, to elaborate on a bill that would be put into the session room and which would allow it to be made exclusively possible.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u190	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u191	Technical and legal rights to the text of the President's Election Act. What is it? First of all, it's about shortening the election campaign. What's in the law itself and in the article "Another Elections," unfortunately, is absurd and requires correlation. Like, for example, it's really about creating district commissions in 80 days, while they're made up of representatives of presidential candidates who finish their registration in 45 days. So in view of these absurd things, we had to go around the entire election calendar plan and adjust all the dates to what we already have for the next election. Another important thing. There is no subject in this law to observe elections like public organizations. You know that in all the rest of the electoral laws we have adapted such a subject and given him great powers. Moreover, this subject does not reflect the standards already implemented in the Law on Elections of People’s Deputies in the New Order and in the Law on the State Register of Voters. And that's the basic question. This law is designed to maximize the cost of electoral campaigns. Nearly 2 billion dollars under the law is a crime against Ukrainians. We have to do everything we can to make the most of every sex, where there's a chance, to cut down on me, absurdly, groundlessly, the cost of elections, at least twice as much. This law, which we have prepared, makes it possible. On what account? First of all, we're reducing the number of candidates in a district district election committee from two to one. That's enough. Because as the 2009 election experience showed, the presence in the election committee of a large number, two representatives from each commission, makes it more difficult than it makes it easier for the committee to work. And so on, and by sex, expenses. As a result of our work, we really have a 50 percent chance of costing the election. And I'm also finishing our work, given that while there is no clear desire in the session room to support this bill as a whole, there is a need for factions to get to know more about it, I agree to just vote for it today as a basis. And give us a chance, if you please, Mr. Vice Speaker, to prepare him for his second reading, and in the course of the sessional week, we were able to consider this law as a law as a whole. Because there's nowhere else to put it. A lot of procedural things are pushing us further, and we need to respond to them immediately. Today, I have registered another Law, registered under registration number 4328, which provides for changes in only three positions. First. Instead of forming circuit boards now, it is expected to be submitted in 45 days and to form commissions in 40 days after the nomination is completed. The other one. Local executives and local self - government authorities are expected to provide special places for agitation in 80 days, not according to the law in force: 87 days. This is the case with the media, which will be able to publish the cost of airtime and air space in 80 days, not 87 days, until the day of the vote. This bill is purely technical, there are no rules of discussion. I would like to vote on it in general today. And bill 3224d to vote on the basis, and to vote on the decision to prepare it for the second reading under the shorter procedure. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u192	Thank you. Dear Society, let us consult. There's a proposal by the committee that Bill 3224d now vote as a basis, put to the vote now, then to vote in favour of the shortened procedure for considering it as a basis for the second reading. And now to include in the issue of order the daily bill 4328, which has just been announced by the People's MP Knjazević: to amend article 90 of the Ukrainian Law on Elections of the President of Ukraine. I think we're going to vote in that order right now. Ladies and gentlemen, we're putting to the vote a bill (registration number 3224d) amending the Ukrainian Law on Elections of the President of Ukraine (for technical and legal improvement of the electoral process) on the ground. Please vote. [[12:55:18]] For 261 Decision taken. Please turn on Knjazević's microphone, the national deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u193	Mr. Ruslan Volodymyrovich, for the sake of technical and legal clarity, please put to the vote the rejection of draft laws 3224 and 3224-1.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u194	Thank you. I'll bet you a vote on rejection. Dear national MPs, of course, alternative bills, if one bill is passed, but the rest is not voted on. Isn't he an alternative? Okay. I'm betting on the vote on the rejection of Bills 3224 and 3224-1. Please vote. [[12:56:23]] For 257 Decision taken. Dear National Deputies! Bill 4328 is being submitted to your consideration for inclusion in the agenda. I would like to remind you that this is the bill of the Ukrainian National MP Knazević on the amendment to article 90 of the Ukrainian Law on Elections of the President of Ukraine. I would like to vote in favour of including this bill in the agenda. Please vote. [[12:57:01]] For 247 Decision taken. I'd like to consult with the People's Deputy Knazevitch. Is there a need to make another announcement? Can we vote without discussion? Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to vote on this matter without discussion. Please vote. [[12:57:35]] For 232 Decision taken. I'm voting on a bill (register number 4328) amending article 90 of the Ukrainian Law on Elections of the President of Ukraine on the basis and in general. Please vote. [[12:58:07]] For 259. Decision taken. The factions, please. The Party of Regions is 24, Fatherland is 65, Vitalia Klicka is 34, Sovereign European Ukraine is 23, Freedom is 30, Economic Development is 28, Company is 23, non-fractional is 32. Dear National Deputies! Please turn on the Knyazevich microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u195	Ruslan Volodymyrovich, please place 3224d so that we can prepare him for the second reading under a reduced procedure, that is, half.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u196	Thank you. At the request of the drafter of Bill 3224d, which you and I voted on as a basis, we put to the vote a reduced procedure for the second reading of the bill. Okay. I would like to vote on the summary procedure for the second reading of Bill 3224. Please vote. [[12:59:26]] For 259. Decision taken. Let's talk about it. Because we have a full day’s schedule, but we still have parliamentary requests. "Crazy." I, with your permission, Your Honor, am now at the time, so that we do not have to accumulate parliamentary requests, and there are enough of them, and I will now read them in accordance with the Rules of Procedure Act, and we will consult you about further work. Let's talk about it. We don't have a break, we have questions, and we do. Turn on the Suskewich microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u197	Thank you. I'm asking for your attention! Today, the chairman at the adoption of the agenda for this session said that the Bill of Decree 4297, which I submitted to you yesterday: the suspension of payments, the discharge of pensions for prosecutors, the judges who are now mass pensioners -- to vote on suspension -- was included in the agenda today. I ask her to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u198	Ladies and gentlemen, there is the offer of the National Deputy Suskewicz. We don't have his bill on our hands right now. Let's do it this way. Let's consult, first of all, on the work of today's plenary session and further work. So we have, now we have the MP's questions. This must be voted on, for we will accumulate. And we have a proposal for further work. Let's just read the questions and figure it out. [[B in m in s a l in]] Let's find out after the questions, the questions, the mandatory procedure, the association. And after the questions, let's figure out how we're going to work. [[B in m in s a l in]] Let's figure it out and then move on, right? [[B in m in s a l in]] All right, all right. Ladies and gentlemen, there is an offer, and you and I have decided to continue working in the plenary. A proposal is now being made by the National Deputies to carry out further work in line with the approval of the calendar of the fourth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the seventh call. People’s deputies are then asked to determine by their vote whether to return to the calendar plan. Okay? I am voting for the return to the calendar of the fourth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the seventh call, please vote. [[13:02:38]] For-188. The decision is not taken. Dear National Deputies! National MP Easy, please, you wanted to say the announcement.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u199	Oleg Lishko, Radical Party. Dear colleagues, I am addressing you. You remember the situation in Crimea and the situation in Ukraine. What's the break? No breaks! We're working to resolve the situation. We can't afford to take a week off. And even today, there are reports of mass looting, banditry, the indeterminate in Kiev, surrounding areas under the name of Self - Defense, the Right Sector, and other organizations. I want to address everyone and say that the power of Maidan has nothing to do with it. Bandits are painted under self - defense and looting. So I urge everyone to stop stealing, stop breaking the law. The internal organs should act adequately: stop banditry, stop larceny. And nothing to hide from Maidan! They go, they rob, and they say Majdan sent. It wasn't for that.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u200	People's deputy Kaplan, Tomenko, Zurawski. And let us make a decision, a respected society.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u201	Dear Ukrainians! Dear Ukrainian people! Dear colleagues! We began to make those decisions and to make the dynamics expected by the whole country. By no means do we have the right to slow down. Every national MP in Ukraine needs to know: Today, from this very session hall, from the Ukrainian Parliament, now from the Ukrainian government, which has undertaken to save the country from corruption, economic decay, and chaos that is now in the countries, depends on whether or not the third world war actually begins. It's been 100 years. [[B in m in s a l in]] It's been 100 years! We must be in the hall, working, maintaining Ukraine's integrity, ensuring economic growth, quickly adopting all the bills. And working exclusively for an ordinary Ukrainian, ensuring stability in the state. So we have no right to leave the hall, we have to work, if necessary, at night to preserve our homeland. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u202	Please, National Deputy Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u203	Dear colleagues! There's an offer today. Now read out all the parliamentary requests, because let the new government start actively to get a job. "Miscellaneous" cancel, because if there's a performance like that in front of me, it's going to end badly for the country, that's why. After the chairman has announced the parliamentary questions, he will close today’s session. Monday's Conciliation Council. I'll see you Monday. Next week. We have no right not to work next week. That's why we're closing the deal today. We're working, we're analyzing the first questions that the country needs, not for us, or for factions, or for presidential candidates. On Monday we hold the Conciliation Council and work in plenary mode on Tuesday. That argument, I think, would be right.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u204	National Deputy Zharavsky. And let's get to the vote. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u205	Dear colleagues, we have chosen the Cabinet of Ministers. There's a strong bloc, a working parliament. The situation has changed for the better. There's a coalition of 250 people. But consider one more thing. People who are chosen from people, especially seniors, need to go back to their districts to do an explanatory job. For this there must be time, so please consider this moment on Monday, when the Conciliation Board will be in place. Because the people's work is not just a job in the session room, it's also a job on committees where there's a lot of paperwork. Please, I agree that committee and faction leaders should identify this issue, but be sure to consider that the overburdened committees that have not considered the issue should return to the districts: clarify the situation, calm people down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u206	Victor Pinzenic's replica. And let's go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u207	Dear folk colleagues, I think I'm now going to propose one thing that everyone supports because there's logic in both of them. People are concerned that we should be ready during this responsible period. That's why there's a proposal: we're calling a recess, and we're authorizing the leadership of the Supreme Council at any time when it's necessary to gather the Supreme Council of Ukraine to make decisions. [[Applause]] Okay?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u208	So there's an offer like that. It's a normal offer. Pinzenic's offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u209	All right, fine. Pull up the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u210	Oleg Tuggnibok "Freedom". Respectable association, a perfectly correct and agreed offer now made by Pinzenic. We need a whole series of bills to be adopted here, to work on committees, so that no one has any idea that we're breaking the procedure. Maybe we should go to the districts. And we have to go to the districts. But everyone has to be ready, there, let's say, within 12 hours of the decision to hold a plenary meeting, to be here in the hall, all the more so, taking into account the tense international situation and the situation in Crimea. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u211	Ladies and gentlemen, I think we've said so much. Please. Committee head, please. And we're done. Let's get this over with, 'cause it's us. We're discussing a calendar plan right now. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u212	Dear colleagues, I'm sorry. But let's say whoever's making this decision right now, I'm going to go, they're going to stop me with the oaks, they're going to say, "Go back, go work." Who's in charge of this, give the teams, please, because that's the same thing. If we're Democrats, let's do that.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u213	Ladies and gentlemen, I've come in for a moment because the National Security and Defence Council is now continuing, and I'm meeting with the ministers of foreign affairs of European countries. I'm offering you, dear fellows. The situation in the country is very tense. The situation in Crimea is simply dangerous. We need the decisions of Parliament and the work of the Cabinet of Ministers and the work of the National Security Council and decision-making, etc. On the other hand, I agree that we also need to work on these decisions on the committees. Because they are very difficult to accept from the voice. We have consulted with the National Security Council, and we have the next proposal. Parliament should return to normal work. But this will be done gradually. So here's the deal. By Tuesday, 10 a.m., even though next week we have work on committees and factions, yet on Tuesday, at 10 a.m., we start a session. In a situation like this, we'll decide how we work next week: or the day on the committees, the day on the board, the sessional day, or another format. Is that the format you're taking? Roger that. I very much ask the Deputy Head of the Supreme Council, as soon as you take the risk of a meeting, to announce yourself. [[B in m in s a l in]] Vote. So Tuesday's a session. Yes, we are. [[B in m in s a l in]] So we're voting the plenary next week, right? And when we break until Tuesday, we don't have to vote, we just make decisions. Dear colleagues, we're just making decisions. When the chairman closes the session, he makes a decision. All the time, I say again, constantly predicts a break and a break for a day, for two, for three. And we had a break, and the break will be after the session. The chairman, Ruslan Kosulinski, will report that the meeting is closed for a recess and that the recess is closed until 10 a.m. on Tuesday. Period. Let us not cause unnecessary problems. Is that the format you're taking? Roger that. Please, Mr. Ruslan.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u214	Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the questions of the National Deputies. A request was received from the national deputies of Ukraine. Vladimir Litvina to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the implementation of the State Budget Act of Ukraine 2013 as part of the allocation of subsidies for the socio-economic development of individual territories. Viktor Razwadowski to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine for the extra-curricular provision of wheelchairs to group I of Peter Burkowski, a resident of the village of Miropil in the district of Žitomir. Roman Ilik to the Head of the State Treasury Office of Ukraine for the improper financing of the Drogobiatic Department of the State Treasury Office of Ukraine for the payment of travel fees to employees and students of Drogobiack State Teachers' University of John Frank. Roman Ilik to the U.K. Attorney General's Office on the non-payment of salaries to employees of the Public Shareholders' Association "Drobobic Car Cranes Plant". Irina Herashchenko and Mikaly Tomenko to the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine of Human Rights, the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine to investigate the use of torture in events that took place near the Cerkas District Administration from January 23 to 27 of this year. Vladimir Pekhova to the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine, the Ministry of Social Policy of Ukraine, the State Service of Ukraine, with extraordinary situations in which urgent measures have been taken to pay off the government's debt to Ukraine under the budget programme 3201200 "Assuring the housing of citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster", which was established on 1 January 2014 before the executive committee of the Corestinian City Council of the Žitomir Region. Vladimir Pekhov to the Provincial District Administration, the Orutsky City Council on the use of urgent measures aimed at ensuring the rights of residents of the city of Orukh of Žitomir to receive housing and utility services from central heating. Ruslan Solvar to the Ministry of Social Policy of Ukraine, the State Service for Disability and Veterans of Ukraine, the Kyiv District State Administration for Unsatisfying Implementation of the Program "Builts (Procurement) Housing for Military Personnel Released or Retired, to move them from closed and remote locations of military garrisons" in the Fastev region of Kiev. Ruslan Solvar to the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine, the Ministry of Interior of Ukraine, the National Bank of Ukraine, the State Executive Service of Ukraine, the Attorney General's Office of Ukraine, the Chief Justice in the Kyiv region regarding the need for a comprehensive examination of the circumstances regarding the long-term and deliberate failure to execute a court decision. Hennady Fedorjak to the Ministry of Health of Ukraine, the Ministry of Social Policy of Ukraine, the Ukrainian Presidential Administration on the need for all-rounding care for the treatment of a severely ill child named Nikita Nemcev in order to guarantee him an inalienable natural and inviolable right to health care and timely medical care from authorized authorities of the State. Alexander Doub to the head of the Supreme Qualifications Commission of Judges of Ukraine for the disciplinary responsibility of the judges of the Obukhiv District Court of Kiev, Oleg Mora and Roman Mostov. Vassil Derevly to the Attorney General's Office of Ukraine for an improper examination of the parliamentary appeal for the protection of the rights of the citizen, Oleg Matusek, who, according to the information contained in his complaint, was violated by the National Architectural Control Inspectorate in Kiev. Arturo Palace to the U.K. Attorney General's Office for the protection of Allona Gutzal and her child from the abuse of an ex-husband. Mikoli Palamarczuk to the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine, the State Administration of Affairs, regarding the identification of certain living conditions and the additional possibilities for the remembrance of twice the Hero of the Soviet Union, Lieutenant General Vasil Petrov. Mikoli Palamarchuk to the Attorney General's Office of Ukraine on the obstacle to the conduct of parliamentary activities. Alexander Briginz to the Ministry of Culture of Ukraine on the use of appropriate response measures aimed at halting construction work within the framework of a unique historical and architectural monument, the Observatory Hill, located in a neighborhood between Gogolivska, Kotsubinski, Observatory and Vorovské město Kiev. Arsena Avakov and Valerija Golovka to the Ukrainian Security Service for investigating the activities of the head of the Foros Village Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea Anatolia Bykov. Lviv Mirimsky to the Head of the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea on the provision of incomplete information to the MP regarding the reimbursement of funds borrowed from the "A" series bond issue of the internal loan of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea in 2011. Lviv Mirimsky to the Simferopol City Head on information and reporting on the activities of the Naples Community Enterprise, including budget spending. Lilia Greenewicz to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine about the responsibility for the explosion in the Tulchin School boiler room No. 3 of Winnitsk district and the report on the inflammation tests in the educational facilities. John Stoyk and Bogdan Benyuk to the Attorney General's Office of Ukraine on the road accident in which Jaroslav Petrovsky died. John Stoyk to the Ukrainian Security Service, the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine, for the non-admission of secessionism in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. Edward Leonov to the Ukrainian Security Service, the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine to prevent parliamentary activity and attack the Berkut Special Unit on the Ukrainian National Deputies and activists at the Kyiv-Holy Court. Alexander Kugel to the Ministry of Revenue and Congregations of Ukraine on the use of the Minister of Income and Congregations of Ukraine on urgent and effective measures aimed at ending politically motivated, prejudiced and unjust tax reprisals against businesses and farmers of Donetsk who assisted Euromanidan in Kiev, including the prompt conduct of objective service investigations into the facts, the taking of the situation under personal control. Oksana Sold to the Attorney General's Office of Ukraine on violations of Ukrainian legislation in the field of assessment for tax purposes. Oxana Sold to the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine for failure to comply with the requirements of effective legislation in the provision of administrative services to the Ukrainian National Migration Service. Vladimir Medjanika to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, Ministry of Finance of Ukraine for funding to repair the Civil Status Registration Department before the 100th anniversary of the celebration of the city of Krasnodon. Vladimir Medjanika to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, Ministry of Finance of Ukraine, for the proper functioning of educational institutions and facilities in the city of Lugansk. Valery Calchenka to the Ministry of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine on the level of the State Enterprise's discharge tariff "National Atomic Energy generating Company Energy" after receiving and returning the European Bank's credit for the reconstruction and development of the Integrated (constructed) nuclear power grid security programme. Valery Calchenka to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine about the allocation of funds to mark the 75th anniversary of the formation of the Kirovograd region. Viktor Butkowski to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, Chief of Internal Affairs of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on the protection of the housing rights of members of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine. Vitalia Chugunikov to the Provincial Prosecutor's Office on the verification of the violation of the requirements of the Central and Regional Psycho-Pedagogical Consultation of the Head of the Municipal Institute of the Plain Regional Psycho-Pedagogical Consultation. Vitalia Chugunikov to the Attorney General's Office of Ukraine on the verification of the legality of the restructuring of the State Enterprise "Mjogostian State Aid" to the State Enterprise "Konship of Ukraine" as ordered by the Ministry of Agrarian Policy and Food of Ukraine. Jury Bublika to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the inaction of the city of Poltava with regard to the implementation of the General Purpose Program, the delay in transfer to the municipal property of the hostels and the removal of violations of citizens' right to their own residence. Jacob Besbach to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, Ministry of Finance of Ukraine on the need to allocate subsidies from the State budget of Ukraine for the socio-economic development of Samarska and Industrial Districts of Dnipropetrovska. Jacob Besbach to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, Ministry of Health of Ukraine, Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources of Ukraine, Head of State Environmental Inspection of Ukraine, Head of State Veterinary and Phytosanitary Service of Ukraine, Head of State Architectural and Construction Inspection of Ukraine, Head of State Health and Epidemiological Service of Ukraine on possible violations of environmental legislation in the Samar district of Dnipropetrovska. Istwana Haydosh to the Ministry of Health of Ukraine on the need to form the Coastal Hospital District at the base of the Beregów Central District Hospital of Zakarpatsk. Arturo Palatnoy to the Attorney General's Office of Ukraine on the use of wage-paying arrangements for former employees of the Society with limited responsibility for the "Pereyaslavian Bread". Alexander Shevchenka to the State Employment Service, the National Migration Service of Ukraine, for the issue of visas to persons entering Ukraine for the purpose of employment. Oleg Kulinić to the Ministry of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine on the solution of the transfer to the municipal property of artesian wells and water supply networks in the village of Polyjane Mirgorod region. Victor of the Ministry of Infrastructure of Razwad, Ukraine, regarding the allocation of funds for the capital repair of roads in the Romani region of Žitomir. Sergey Firemarck to the Attorney General's Office of Ukraine on the attack on the banister of the synagogue. Sergey Firemarck to the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine, Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on the violation of the rights and freedoms of citizens in Odessa. Olga Mikhailenko to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine for the construction of underground and inter-urban gas pipelines to the Hersonian district. Istwan Haydosh to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the maintenance of the signing of the Ukrainian Law on Recognition in a way that has become invalid, the Ukrainian Act on Principles of State Language Policy. Edward Leonov to the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Ukrainian Security Service, for the purpose of verifying information regarding the presence of dual citizenship of the city's head, Jankoi Arcadia Zaidman. Eugene Melnik to the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine on the inappropriate examination of parliamentary appeals and the parliamentary request by the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine regarding the position of the Office of the Procurator-General of the Volin Region on the legality of decisions in criminal proceedings, further criminal proceedings No. 1201302000000312 of 31 July 2013 in connection with the death of Chappuk and Feduk. Mikoli Dzardanova to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the draft Law to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the draft Law on the Ratification of the Guarantee Agreement (Ukraine: Comprehensive (Integrated) Program on increasing the safety of nuclear power grids) between Ukraine and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development (Registration No.0054 of 7 November 2013). Yurya Bublika to the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine on illegal land allocation under hunting conditions in Komsomolsk and Kremenchuck district of Poltava district of the civil organization Komsomol inter-district association of hunters and fishermen Takhtaiwiska using documents of the decommissioned fishing farm Takhtaiwiska. Alexander Briginz to the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine, the State Architectural Inspection of Ukraine, the State Agency for Land Resources of Ukraine, the State Environmental Inspectorate of Ukraine on the use of measures to address the issue of halting construction work in the land area of green plantations within the area of protection of the Arcadia area on the street of Genoaezka in the city of Odessa. Tetjana Sluz to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Court of Auditors, the Ministry of Social Policy of Ukraine, the State Executive Service of Ukraine, the Pension Fund, the State Financial Inspectorate of Ukraine on pension payments to citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster. Sergei Gordienka to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine, the State Investment Agency and the administration of Ukraine's national projects on the need to issue funds under the National Project "Timely Assistance" for the creation of a single operational control service using CPS technologies in the Poltav region, taking into account the high level of preparation of regional infrastructure. Sergei Gordienka to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Ministry of Health of Ukraine, the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine on the need for changes to Ukraine’s State Budget for 2014, with the aim of refocusing subsidies on the acquisition of medicines and medical supplies for subsidies, medical supplies and medical supplies, medical equipment, and sanitary transport for health facilities in the Poltav region. Victoria Bullach to the Ministry of Health of Ukraine regarding the non-closure of the obstetric and gynecological department of the Grandpissary Central District Hospital of the district of Velikopisarov. Victoria Bullach to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on urgent measures to repair the roadways of the general use of the Shastin district of Suma to preserve the infrastructure of the area. Andrija Kožemiakina to the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, acting as Attorney General of Ukraine for the illegal implementation of the state of emergency in the part of the city of Kiev between December 1, 2013 and February 22, 2014. Vasil Samylenk to the State Penitentiary Service of Ukraine regarding the non-payment of salaries to the employees of the Corstene Correctional Colony No. 71 of the Žitomir Region. All requests from the national deputies are read out. Dear National Deputies! We've got "Variance," and I'd like you to sign up for the National Deputies for a different performance. May I have the floor of the People's Deputy Layashka.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u215	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Honorable citizens of Ukraine, today Parliament has finally taken a decision to abolish the benefits and privileges of national deputies. But in fact, it's half the case, because the most important benefit for a national MP is his parliamentary integrity. And the vast majority go to Parliament just because of this parliamentary incompetence. Thus, after cancelling the material benefits, Parliament will have to make the following decision to cancel the parliamentary immunity. And I'm calling on Ukrainian citizens to press the MPs to cancel the parliamentary immunity. Today, we have a unique opportunity to place authority in the service of the people, and there will be no untouchable ones, and there will be no benefits. In addition, since the benefits have been eliminated, MPs need to move on: canceling benefits for all government officials. The Supreme Council's car park, the President's office, the Minister's office, should be shut down, leaving only cars to serve foreign delegations. Over 200 cars are parked in the park of the Supreme Council. What are they for? Same in the President's Office, in the government. All these dishes, sanatoriums, car parks -- everything has to be eliminated. This will save over a year and a year and a half, two billion dollars, and this will have to be aimed at restoring national production, creating jobs, financing medicine, education. And the most important issue today is the future fate of the Supreme Council. How will it exist? What will she do? I am absolutely convinced that once Parliament has completed its mission -- stabilizes the situation in Ukraine -- the Supreme Council has to go to the next term's elections. There's got to be a full reboot. The President's new election on May 25th, September at most, is the election of the Supreme Council, the local self-government. Young people are to come to power in Ukraine. We have to adopt the Book of Illustration Act -- and ban all 23 years in power, demolish Ukraine, ban them from taking any position in the government. The same is true of the prosecution, the police, and the courts. They have to be completely released, but new people have to come, and self-defense has to be converted into the National Guard and protected the interests of Ukrainian citizens. I'm talking to Maidan, I'm talking to people: not a step back. We must take advantage of the historical moment today to solve the country’s problems. And most importantly, it's a ban on the Company and the Party of Regions as criminal organizations that have led to bloodshed. The glory of Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u216	People’s MP Bondarenko is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u217	Honorable Chairman, Honourable Citizens of Ukraine! Today, the situation in the country is forcing us to take a second look at what Parliament and the authorities should be doing. We have come to know the terrible facts of the theft of state property. Today we see the wealth of some powerful men, filled with gold, diamonds, and other values. And we see the poverty of the people around us. We wanted our radio, the television that carried out the task of that power that had been in the past, to glorify it or to silence the facts of this theft and the crimes that had been created in the legal field of Ukraine, to want it to change its tactics. I would like us to do at least one day in this order of information: five minutes -- about those people who were shot in Midan by this power and five minutes -- about Pshonka's wealth, about Yanukovich's wealth, about the wealth of other authorities, so that people can look at it and especially across Ukraine, not only in Kiev, where the 5th Channel works, but across Ukraine. Because there, today, blocking information has led to their sincere belief that there are some bandits here in Kiev, and the power that was, indeed, the authority of the people. That's the first one. The other one. We need to spread order throughout Ukraine today. Today, when the MPs are on the move, it is necessary for the deputies to be the basis of some of the steps to be taken on the spot. We need to stop this hoax that's just begun. Even in Kiev today, we see unique things, and today someone has captured health authorities. Several so - called national councils have already been established in each area. They're created, by the way, by the vast majority of gang formations that worked under the previous authorities, disguised as Midan. This must be stopped, for if there is no order in the state, the new authorities will immediately lose their legitimacy and authority. I would like to say that we need to deal with those who did. I would be very interested to know who, for example, took the buses out of Kiev’s city park and financed the city’s money to block opposition efforts; who stopped the subway without allowing people to reach places; who covered the water supply in Hristetics; who turned off the lights. I'd like to talk to every judge. Because I've visited dozens of courts during these extractions of our boys from the judicial system, and I remember with cold eyes with which individual judges were put in prison for two months in a 19-year-old boy's prison, a little older people just because they were somewhere in the area of mass action, without any evidence, without any argument or evidence. And all those who signed those protocols have to answer why they forged those protocols. But we will do so later, and we must do so with regard to everyone who allowed it, for impunity then produces impunity.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u218	Thank you. May I have the floor of the People's Deputies Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u219	Dear citizens of Ukraine! Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! Today, I was officially contacted by a financial director of a foreign investment company (Cersanit Invest). This is the largest Polish investment in Ukraine in all, 120 million euros has been invested in production, where 1,200 jobs have been created. By the way, the company is the biggest taxpayer in the Zitomir region. Reference to the next table of contents. In January 2014, at a meeting with the Head of State Environmental Inspection in the Žitomir district of Gnatuk Bogdan Josephovich, who took part in his initiative, our representative received information that the prosecutor of the Zkoro District of Skuro Valerij Volodymyrovich was proposing "Cersanit Invest" protection, which was that our company would not be allowed to verify by various institutions and authorities, obliged to close the criminal case number of someone who was involved in the suspicion of water drilling without the relevant documents, and would lead to the cancellation of the case of the appeal against the decision of the Court of Appeal in the relevant case. The cost of this service was set at $150,000. Dear colleagues, please consider my statement a question of the MPs. I appeal to the law enforcement agencies: to immediately carry out appropriate tests of this fact, to draw the guilty, if confirmed, to immediate responsibility, and I believe that until we take away corruption, including from the law enforcement agencies, we will not return the investment to Ukraine. What is vital and especially necessary today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u220	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we have yet to make a statement to the national MPs: Benjuk, Mihaylenko, Melnik Eugene, and National Deputy Shipko Does anyone else want to sign up? I see the people's deputies Osuhovsky and Mikhalchisin and Gołko. May I have the floor of the People's Deputy Benjuk. After that, I'd like you to prepare the People's Deputy Mikhailenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u221	Dear Chairman, dear friends, prominent voters of Ukraine, the people of Ukraine! Today you and I are having a hard time. The time that requires great balance, wisdom, incredibly important decisions, and decisions that do not suffer or endure such an urgent, long - standing solution. You and I must now feel the mood that prevails in our society, and realize that our society, which, with a great three-month, just colossal load, has taken the most important step in choosing European choices. We must continue to take this step. It is unforgivable, and we know that the situation that is currently taking place in Ukraine is not easy. And that's why, Mr. President, I'd like to address every citizen of Ukraine, everyone who hears who's going through this right now. Because we, MPs, get a huge number of calls with all kinds of advice, all sorts of situations, with incredible things that tell us what's going on in one part or the other of Kiev and our Ukraine. But all of this, it has to go to one denominator, to the denominator of the most important: balance and once again balance. The existence of our state, the existence of Ukraine, is the first thing that's in the breasts of everyone in this room, and everyone who's watching and worrying about what's happening in us. We address all those on the front. We turn to the people of Crimea: show great nobility, display great wisdom, ignore the things that are happening to you from the outside. Believe me, Ukraine and its territory, with its people, with its beautiful people, is a fantastic flower in the bouquet of all the peoples of Ukraine. And I am very grateful to those patriots who are now in Crimea to defend the interests of Ukraine. We think and believe that the hand of the Lord will be upon us. The Lord God will protect us. It's just that we all have to endure these difficult moments. And most importantly, gentlemen, don't lose the important thing: common sense. That is what must be our first, most precious foundation today. I think great friends that we are all together are a great force. We have a colossal job ahead of us. And you're already in the present day of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, you realize that the transformations that are taking place here under the dome, here in this room, they're only being done in the name of the people of Ukraine getting the most important thing that we're going to do: freedom, equality and an incredible sense of the need for their lives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u222	Thank you. May I have the floor of the People's Deputy Mikhailenko. To prepare for the people's deputy of Melnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u223	Thank you. Honorable Chairman, Honorable Colleagues, Voters! The Communist Party of Ukraine, the Hersonian Communists, are calling attention to the new government's painful problem of paying off wages. Let me give you just a few examples of this painful problem. Three hundred members of the Society with limited responsibility, Beton-Tavria, is the city of Nova Kahovak, the owner and leader of which was the candidate for the national deputy Vinnik. He left people with debts by reorganizing the business into a different structure. He ran away on his own. The next example. The employees of the Hersonagrolis State Enterprise have been walking around the premises for years. Government officials, national deputies, have been repeatedly approached, but the real solution to the matter has not yet been met. Another negative fact. State-owned employees of the Central Construction Office Izumrud (town of Herson) have been beating the thresholds of government offices since August 2009 and are now continuing to fight for the right to earn money. And this list, my dear colleagues, can be continued. So today, really, we need to think about people and fight together, fight for their right to a happy life and adequate social security in our Fatherland. I'm asking government officials to take measures to pay off the salaries of employees of the above-mentioned enterprises, and not named ones, and very many of them. I want to raise another problem. Residents of the 10 villages of Hersonschina took loans in 2010-2011, today pay interest on the use of credit resources, put these funds on the gas network, put it in the village, but the state failed to comply with its obligations: it did not fail the pipelines. These are the villages: the Borislav region – 2 villages, Velikoleksandrivski, Skadovsky, Zurich, Visopolski. Dear colleagues, I think it's thanks to the solution of these very, very exciting people, the issues, the vital problems, today's and the authorities, and the opposition will have the confidence of our voters if we work together.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u224	I would like to introduce you to the words of the People's Deputy Melnik Eugen.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u225	Dear Lord Chairman, distinguished national MPs! Allow me, on your behalf, on behalf of the entire Ukrainian people who have stood on Kiev's territory for the past three months, to express their sincere thanks to all the Ukrainians who have been abroad and supported Midan, to those Ukrainians who have been raising funds around the world to support Midan, sending shipments, collecting funds, counting them so that we can stand and endure, and overpowering this bandit power. Dear Ukrainians, we offer you our sincere thanks, but we continue to ask you to support us, to support Ukraine. After all, you know that the Eastern neighbor is encroaching on the territorial integrity of our Ukraine. You know that the Budapest Memorandum was signed in 1994. And so we ask you to go to the guaranteeing countries now so that they can influence our Ukraine to preserve as territorially as it is. At the same time, I urge you to go home, invest in the Ukrainian economy. There is no longer this power that has plundered and embalmed. So I ask you to influence the countries in which the accounts are held by those who have stolen, who have transferred funds to offshore areas, so that these funds can return to Ukraine and work for the benefit of the Ukrainian people. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u226	May I have the floor of the People's Deputy Shipko? Prepare the National Deputy of Osuhovski.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u227	Shipko Andry, Dnipropetrovsk district, 35 constituency, Nicopol, Ordjonikidze, Nicopolsk district Dear colleagues, honourable voters, I would like to pay immediate attention to the problem that affects millions of Ukrainians -- the bracelet falls daily, among other things, the threat of the disappearance of medicines from treatment-prevention facilities. Ukraine had already done so in 2008. In short, the problem is that under devaluation, hospitals are forced to look for additional unbudgeted costs or to reduce the number of medicines purchased within government target programmes. There is a risk that not all patients will receive medication. And that's just unacceptable. To address the problem, I initiated the creation of a working group with the participation of members of the Committee of the Supreme Council on Health and the representatives of pharmaceutical public organizations, farmers, and distributors. Draft legislation has already been developed to ensure that Ukrainians are provided with medical supplies in terms of exchange rate instability. But these very needed initiatives have not yet been taken. I want to address Prime Minister Arsenius Yatsenuk of Ukraine, Minister of Finance Alexander Schlapak of Ukraine. Today there is an effective mechanism for resolving the problem, and it must be readily accepted and employed. All possible measures must be taken to ensure that patients in preventive care facilities are provided with the necessary medicines. I hope everyone heard me and understood me. And please consider my speech as a parliamentary request to the Prime Minister of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u228	I would like to welcome you to the floor of the National Deputy of Osuhovsky. To prepare for the People’s Deputy Michalšin.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u229	Oleg Osuhovski, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear Ukrainians! We have indeed shown to the world today that Ukrainians can fight and win. And we won. Thank you to all of you who have joined Euramydan. Thank you to the MEPs, thank you to the senators who, in fact, Mr. Tarasyuk and I were in America, we were delegated by Majdan, who supported Ukraine and imposed sanctions on those criminals who killed, abused the Ukrainians. But now we have a very important task ahead of us. This is primarily the fight against corruption. We must now destroy corruption under the root in Ukraine. We need to change the system of power, because those heroes who fought, who gave their lives for Ukraine, who are probably looking at us in the sky right now, will not forgive us if we do not move away from the power of those bandit judges, prosecutors, militiamen who were beating, bullying, arresting Jews who were killing Ukrainians in those three months. We also have to pass a law on the National Anti-Corruption Bureau. And this National Anti-Corruption Bureau is really going to wipe out corruption in Ukraine. We also need to adopt a law on illustration. We did not accept it in 1991 when we had a chance to accept it. Not adopted after the Orange Revolution in 2005. We have to take him now. Look, you know, a lot of people say that if it wasn't for the time, it couldn't have been, they kept talking about it. Georgia recently passed the law -- and they don't have corruption, they don't have banditry, and they've changed their country. Dear Ukrainian community, we must stand as long as we do not change the system of power in Ukraine, we will not destroy corruption, and there will be no illustration for those heroes who have given their lives for Ukraine. Glory to Ukraine! And glory to the Jewish heroes who laid their lives for Ukraine, that the Ukrainian people develop as a nation strong as a nation successful and a nation European! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u230	People’s MP Michalchisin is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u231	Honorable National Deputies, distinguished Ukrainians! At present, there is a very disturbing situation that may affect the national security and security of our country tomorrow. And it refers to the retail price of fuel and petroleum products. Even now, Ukrainians are seeing a sharp flow of fuel prices at the autofuel stations. And in the context of the events that are now taking place on the Crimean Peninsula, in the context of the need for a mobilization resource, we need to realize that this question can tomorrow be the cost of preserving human lives in a combatable state to protect our territorial integrity of the national defence system. Then it is time to break the issue of the functioning of the oil market in Ukraine. Because in the last two years, we know very well what was happening is its artificial monopolization, its artificial destruction by financial and industrial groups that grouped around the criminal daughter clan, and systematically destroyed Ukrainian oil processing for the purpose of either importing contraband fuel from neighbouring states and implementing it at higher prices in Ukraine. Yes, it is well known, for example, that the Hersonian, Lyscan, archduke, and drug - processing factories have completely ceased their work. He maintained a certain production capacity and capacity only with a certain degree of cremenchutic and a certain degree of Odessa. Now, in the context of this alarming and threatening situation, it may be necessary to entrust the Ministry of Fuel and Energy, the State Property Fund of Ukraine, the National Security and Defence Council with the study of energy security issues, particularly in the Queen's supply of oil products to the Ukrainian law enforcement agencies, the Ukrainian Armed Forces, the State Service for Emergency Situations and all the emergency services, and to that end, we will have to ask questions about the principles of the functioning of the oil market. In particular, to break the question of the legality of the privatization of oil refineries, which today, in the hands of the oligarchs, have virtually ceased their work and are destroying our country’s defenses. This is primarily about the drug and super-duper oil refineries, which were known to be controlled by business groups close to the famous "Privat" group that are now actually simplifying, are being destroyed. It is also worth mentioning that the Herson oil refinery was captured and destroyed only to make it a fictitious base for smuggling into Ukraine. So now it's time for law enforcement agencies, the Attorney General's Office, the State Property Fund to work on the legality of privatizing these sites, which are strategically relevant to the country's security, and, if necessary, take steps to restore them to state property in order for Ukraine to have a guaranteed fuel reserve in case of any emergency. Thank you for your attention. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u232	May I have the floor of the People's Deputy Popescu. Who else do we have inscribed? Head, right? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u233	Thank you. Popesco, non-factional, Chernobyl area. Masterful colleagues! At this difficult time, I would like to draw attention to a rather important issue, since we have repealed the language law. And when we come up with a new Language Law, we need to take into account two important points that are essential to preserve the international harmony in Ukraine, what we all need right now. First, we need to preserve the existing system of native language education -- and calm down the national minorities, who will have the right to receive education in their own language. One second. The right to official use must also be preserved in places of compact residence of traditional national minorities alongside the national language where possible, as well as the language of the minorities concerned. Then the national minorities will really feel like the self-sufficient elements of the great Ukrainian people, and in case of danger to our country, we will all stand together to protect our common country. And we need this, too, because we want to build a European Ukraine. The next point that I wanted to pay attention to, too. It's also very important that the authorities should give a clear signal, and yesterday we heard it from this rostrum, but we need it and we need it in places to prove that there is a guarantee that no one will try to capture the churches and monasteries of one religion or another, because we also need interfaith peace. If we have interfaith, interfaith peace, if we establish relations between different regions, stability will arise in Ukraine. First of all, the rule of law must be put to the fore. And it's a good thing that there were representatives of different regions, different parties, non-factional people here in the Supreme Council, working to build stability in the country. And this is the most important signal for our multinational people in Ukraine. And most importantly, we need to preserve the integrity and independence of our nation. And may God help us to do so.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u234	I would like to introduce you to the words of the People's Deputy Golovka.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u235	Mikhail Golovko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear fellow MPs, we're very few in the room, and that's why I'm talking to the viewers who are watching us right now. And what I'm saying is that, really, we're going through some tough times today. But those tests are necessary to unite and strengthen our spirit and to establish our nation as an independent nation, to establish our nation, which has the right to choose and to build its country by its healings and as it sees it. We have two main challenges right now: this, on the one hand, is a financial challenge, and on the other hand, a political one. These are the events that are taking place in Crimea. They can be described and analyzed as a purely annexation on the part of Russia. The various provocations of local councils, the takeover of airports, are the oppression of this hysteria, which is meant to, in fact, shake the situation in Ukraine. But what I want to say is this. That all these steps on Russia's side are pre-mortem convulsions that speak of their powerlessness. Putin lost the map and the race for Ukraine. The experts already admit it. Ukraine is completely moving away from the Kremlin, building its independent policy, and this is what annoys them the most. And that they really can't do anything about it. Crime is part of Ukraine and it will be. And whoever's there doesn't talk and whatever they do. Now the task of our Armed Forces and the Ministry of Defence, the Security Council, is to take all measures to really respond to the Russian challenges and finally, permanently, to bring order to Ukraine and to stop any intention of secessionism and provocation. And there is also a great task now for the government and the leading Prime Minister, Arsenius Yatsenuk, to take steps towards the financial security of the Ukrainian State, namely in the currency market. Here and, indeed, Natzbank and Stepan of Cuba would have done everything they could to stabilize the rate of the bracelets, namely to do strategic tasks, is to lower the bill in Ukraine. To do that, we need to revive the economy. We do. Do everything you can to develop a small and medium-sized business. And here in Parliament, you and I need to adopt a number of bills -- those that we have proposed to lower taxes on small and medium-sized businesses, which would enable us to revive this area of activity. We also need to fill the budget. And for that there are our bills that you've proposed. Most importantly, it's a law that eliminates private monopolies that usurp the market and prevent other markets from developing, especially small and medium-sized businesses. And, of course, a bill that deals with the recovery of offshore funds, especially from Cyprus, because every year billions of dollars are imported from Ukraine, and that's why they have to work in Ukraine for the development of the Ukrainian state, for the development of the Ukrainian economy. And our task with you is to quickly enact all these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-28-m0.u236	Dear National Deputies! All those who wanted to speak. The time in the "Variance" is running out. We're taking a break in ours. in the plenary session. We'll continue work on Tuesday at 10 o'clock on March 4. On March 3, 11 o’clock, the Conciliation Council will take place. Thank you. Good-bye.
