ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25376	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the debate on changes and additions to the Criminal Law is a good opportunity for Serbian citizens to present some new details regarding the statement by former Montenegrin mission chief at the US Ratko Knezevic, about the meeting of Tomislav Nikolic and Aleksandr Vukic at Hotel "Ric" in Paris in October 2007. Yesterday, Mrs. Maja Gojkovic, former mayor of Novi Sad, said she knew nothing about alleged negotiations on the construction of a gas power plant in Novi Sad, which was reportedly carried out at Hotel "Ric" in October 2007. "I don't know what Nikolic and Vukic were doing in Paris, but I know that no one has informed me that they have discussed investments in Novi Sad. I believe that, as the mayor of Novi Sad at the time, someone would have come to me if such conversations really were, and what I know for sure is that no one could have talked about it on behalf of the city. After all, the area of energy is in charge of the province and the Republic. ''The protocol on the construction of a gas thermopower plant in Novi Sad was signed on 10 May 2006 at the New Sad City House, and the signatories were representatives of the Russian company "Technoprom Export", the Swiss firm "Mentor Enerji" and the newly-sadic company "Mentor Energi Serbia". The contract envisions a total power plant of 900 megawatts and an investment of about 600m euros, and the signing ceremony was attended by then Russian Ambassador to Belgrade Aleksandar Alekseiev. Maja Gojkovic says she was talking to someone for the first time and for the last time about building a new thermal power plant.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25377	It's been two minutes. Mr. Nebojsa Rangelovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25378	Dear Madam President, dear colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, I would like to use the right as an authorised representative of the LDP parliamentary group to give a general view before the start of the debate under this draft law in particular. I believe that this would make the debate more complete and that my colleagues and fellow MPs could give a more detailed explanation for the amendments submitted by the LDP parliamentary group. I will again point out, as in the debate on the whole set of these laws, that we in the LDP had one very constructive approach, only submitted five amendments to the entire set of laws. Of which, three amendments to the amendment and addition of the Criminal Code. As far as the Criminal Procedure Act is concerned, our amendments are respected, but I can express not only the dissatisfaction, but also that I am amazed by the irresponsible approach of the Government's representatives when assessing and respecting the amendments that we have submitted to the Criminal Code. Namely, this is about the criminal act of calling for resistance and the criminal act of abuse of the official position. These are individual crimes, but their attributes and in general what we have given in the explanation concerns the law in general and the very nature of our approach to making changes and supplementing this code. At the very least, I'm going to express my surprise which is why our amendments have been rejected, according to the reasons we've received. Namely, I have two unmistakable arguments ahead of me. For the crime of calling for resistance, I have an explanation that says - the amendment is not accepted for the reason it is a reshaping of the criminal act of calling for opposition to non-compliance with decisions, I would say, and linguistically incorrectly, the state authorities, which will make this crime more complete and clearer, while predicting a legal minimum of prison punishment for this crime. I didn't understand this argument. Don't mind me reminding my distinguished colleagues and colleagues that I am, in addition to being a MP and a professor of law school, and I'm suggesting that it's my job to understand the explanation. I can tell you that for this kind of empty explanation, we at the Law School in exams, we give fives, or we take exams. Our amendment to Article 138 reads: “Article 325 is deleted. “ It is quite logical, in line with our reasoning that we have given and which is slightly larger and slightly wider, but it reflects the essence of what we wanted to accomplish. The government didn't respect our argument. Since my colleagues and colleagues are going to be more detailed in this explanation, I'd just like to add a few general things that I think are of great importance. I'd like to appeal to article 46. The constitution, because in our explanation it stands... (President: Gentlemen, I would really ask you, I cannot hear the speaker, that we may be quieter. Here you go. I thank you, Madam President. In addition to what you said, I would add that the purpose of this number of MPs from the ruling majority is to give a quorum to begin the session, not to be interested in what is being said here. I would also point out that we have worked far better these days when only those who are interested in these laws are better and thus contribute to the efficient work of this Parliament. I thank you again for your help and for your support, obviously she wasn't adequate. (President: You'll have to reapply. We've recorded the time. I'd like to apply to Article 46. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which says, is guaranteed the freedom of opinion and expression, as well as the freedom to speak, write, picture or otherwise seek, receive and general information and ideas. I ask the question – does this form of a member of the Constitution enter into the substance of a crime whose erasure we have sought? This article also provides an opportunity for certain restrictions on freedom of opinion and expression, but also gives an explanation of what the state should do in this case. Even if this restriction of freedom of expression could be undermined under some legitimate objective, the state is obliged to establish that such an approach has been illegal and that, in accordance with the provisions of Article 46. The constitution, it's acting. So the duty of proving illegality and the necessity of limiting freedom of expression is in the state. This member, so formulated, gives the state broad opportunities for abuse. I would also like to remind some colleagues and colleagues, who will obviously support the government's stance, that they were once members of an organisation called the "Resistance" and which made no doubt a contribution to the democratisation of society in Serbia. Now I'm asking myself - why are you against such a formulated amendment, when the Criminal Code has quite enough capacity to bring this criminal act into the hands of something that contains other crimes? So it has quite enough capacity. So much more incomprehensible to me is the government's position, so much more incomprehensible to me is the incomprehensible argument that we have received in this text that we are informed that our amendment has been rejected. In my opinion, an even more flagrant example of what I was talking about is the rejection of our amendment regarding the criminal offence of abuse of official position. As it was formulated in the government's proposal, it's against the constitution. I know the U.S. Constitutional Court won't support what we of the LDP are asking for, but it's my duty, as a MP, therefore, as a representative of the citizens, to say so in this House. The bottom line of what we were looking for is that because the crime, for a number of reasons we discussed with the government representatives, could not be deleted, we asked that the text of this member be compared with one supplement, which is said to be contrary to obtaining material benefit. We think, we don't think, but we're saying it's essential. I will remind you again of the provisions of the Constitution, regarding the economic arrangement of Article 82 and beyond. In Article 82. The constitution says – the economic order in the Republic of Serbia rests on the market economy, open and free market, freedom of entrepreneurship, independence of business entities and equality of private and other forms of property, and then lists what else. A member of 83 shows – Entrepreneurship is free, but gives an explanation, etc. I don't want to read the Constitution anymore, it's going to seem hypocritical that we, who have fought against this ill-formed and built constitution, are now calling for it, but it's the only constitution we have, so other possibilities and we don't have. Thus, the Constitution speaks unequivocally of freedom of entrepreneurship, and of Article 359. The criminal code stands – who obtains material or other benefits. The basis of the attachment is the acquisition of material benefit. Why would someone do business, why would someone start a company if it wasn't intended to provide material benefits? That is why we insisted on the formulation – the illegal acquisition of material benefits. In an explanation, we got this kind of explanation why it wasn't accepted. The amendment is not accepted for the reason that only editorial changes in the entity of this criminal act have been made to the proposed solution, as far as a liability entity in the same form can now appear as a responsible person. It's unclear. In accordance with this, the erasure of Article 4 of the applicable law, which provided for the punishment for the responsible person, was carried out. We believe that the existing criminal offence formulation "abuse of the official position" is sufficiently precise and comprehensive and therefore does not need to be changed. It is comprehensive, but it allows for abuse. That is why we do not understand why our wording “unlawful acquisition of material and other benefits” has been rejected, and why is it not accepted? With such dilemmas we will enter into a debate on the details of this bill, and if we are not given adequate notice, we will be against it, because we believe that our approach and our attempt to implement the essential improvements of this code have been irrefutablely rejected. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25379	On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Verica Radet, who wants a word. Here you go, Mrs. Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25380	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, given the fact that in the direct transfer of this Parliament, the public can only see a people's MP who speaks, not empty benches, where MPs of the assembly majority should sit, and not places where government representatives should sit. It is not correct, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, to say earlier that you have called for the sittings to be attended by some 10-15 people who should be here and representing the government of the Republic of Serbia. You should have said, when you listed the MPs who were not present for justified reasons, that for justified or unjust reasons, Mrs Snezana Malovic, Minister of Justice, was not present today, that the State Secretary could only listen to what is being said here, and not to participate in the work, and not to wait for the amendments. Just to draw the public's attention to how you actually cheat on the public at every turn. Why should Article 7 be deleted? Because Article 7. The proposal for a criminal code states that a convicted person who has been sentenced to a sentence of one year is entitled to determine that the sentence is carried out by not leaving the premises in which he resides, except in cases prescribed by law, etc. This is one of the essential proofs of what I said yesterday, which is that Americanism is being introduced into our legal system, because this is the kind of punishment that we've seen in American movies. Mrs Malovic probably saw a lot of American movies, so she put it into the law. It's incomplete to you, Mr. Homen, this article 7. You should have written -- the rest is unknown whether a convicted man who maintains a prison sentence is allowed to peek through a window, whether he can go out on the terrace, whether he can go out of one room and go to another. You should have done this a little more precisely, when you're already making fun of Serbia's justice system, you should have done it completely. Propose Mrs Malovic, and this few MPs of the assembly majority, please consider accepting this amendment and erasing this scandalous article 7. Proposed criminal code.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25381	The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Konstantinovic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee accepted the amendment and it became an integral part of the bill. The Citizens' Protector submitted to Article 7 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure, the Committee on Justice and Administration tabled an amendment to Article 7. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Antic. Does anyone want a word? Mr. Antic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25382	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is obvious that this new home prison institute is gathering the public's attention, that there will be a lot of conflicting comments, opinions, not only when this law is passed, but also later on. Without a doubt, what is the government's goal, by the ministry, has been given to us, is one more humane treatment, it is monitoring EU standards in this area, deserves attention and has an understanding of SNS Tomislav Nikolic. I think it was, unfortunately, necessary for this problem to be seen, I would say, much wider, if it needed a multidisciplinary approach, which we didn't have. Seems to me, there's not enough public talk about all this and not all the dilemmas that exist about this home prison institute. There are great powers of the judge. We don't have a clear rule on who's going to be able to subject to criminal sanctions like this and this new criminal sanction. I think that all citizens of Serbia are not equal, because it is necessary to provide technical conditions that will not be possible in all environments. Some communities will be privileged, small municipalities such as Rekovac, Despotovac, have dozens across Serbia, will not be able to apply the institute. So, we've come from the fact that if the government and the Ministry have taken responsibility and claims that this institute means cost reduction, and the SNS's goal is always to reduce the costs of the administration and the general state administration, then it is necessary to support this sanction, but it is necessary that the number of those who execute, or who will be subject to this new criminal sanction... (President: Mr. MP, your parliamentary group has six and a half minutes left. Since you're over two, you want to use that time? Just 20 seconds. In view of all this, it is also necessary that the number of those subject to this new criminal sanction be adequate, in order for this institute itself to be rational, so that the costs of those who follow, eventually bring in convicts, are greater than the savings this sanction and this new criminal sanction can provide. That was the reason for submitting this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25383	The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Spasojevic. Do you want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25384	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honored Chairman, the Honorable Representatives of the Government, the Honored Citizens of Serbia, is before us the practical introduction of something new, i.e. as Article 7 provides that the sentenced person who has been sentenced to prison for up to one year may be ordered to be subject to the sentence in such a way that the convicted person must not leave the premises in which he resides, except in cases prescribed by law governing the enforcement of criminal sanctions. Article 7(6) practically leads to some inaccuracies that can lead to a series of abuses. In fact, the 6th position, which has been convicted of the execution of a prison sentence in the manner provided for by the position of the 5th member, which, once in 12 hours or twice over a period of six hours, will voluntarily leave the premises in which he resides, will be determined by the court that the rest of the prison is held in prison. I have submitted to Article 7 of Section 6 of the amendment that after the word "12 hours or twice a 6 hour period" they are changed and read "with up to 12 hours or twice a 6 hour period". The explanation of this amendment is - if the proposed formulation was left as offered by the legislator could be misused, because an unwarranted absence would remain unsanctioned, as provided for in Article 5, less than 12 hours, in that case and five minutes less. The same goes for the situation twice six hours, so I propose this amendment as the only correct solution. It remains unclear who will and how will control the people who maintain the prison sentence practically under house arrest, that is, call it whatever you want, but maintains it in the apartment, remains unclear who will control these people, does not explain at all the way it will be done. Of course, unequal conditions remain for Serbian citizens, according to counterpart Antic, whether all conditions can be met. I think the introduction of many new institutes, practically and many of some newspapers in the Law on Criminal Procedure and Criminal Law, is something I appeal to all these days, that the professional public suggests had to ask more questions, both profession and practice. The only thing I can see, as the only consistent and fully precise solution in this system, which is changing at such an accelerated pace in seven days, is a dragonic increase in court taxis, to which Serbian citizens react. Mr. Homen, in Serbia, taxes are up 50%. What collection here was 50%? If the idea of high taxes is that everything we introduce in the judiciary, the distance of courts, citizens simply can't address institutions, because on the one hand we have extremely high fees, we have high costs of the procedure, I don't know what the message is. People have to exercise their rights. Don't leave Serbian citizens to themselves to take matters into their own hands. It's very dangerous for a judicial system, both for the system and for the state.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25385	One part of the time was from the one that belonged to you as an authorised representative for the group. The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Batic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Milica Radovic, Milos Petkovic, Milos Aligrudic and Jovan Palalic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Mrs. Radovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25386	The amendment that we have submitted to Article 8 deals with parole itself. We believe that the provision of a proposal to limit parole for persons who tried to escape from prison or escaped from prison is completely unnecessary, for reasons I cannot imagine any court, and I believe none of those present in the O.R., whether they are lawyers or not, who might consider the possibility of giving parole to such persons. I am fully responsible for saying that there is no such court in Serbia. That's why I think this part of this article should simply be deleted. On the other hand, there are no real and well-founded reasons for tightening parole, when the general trend in all European rights is just expanding the possibility of its expression. In the principle debate, I was saying that this provision is contrary to the Council of Europe's recommendations, which says that the sentences of imprisonment, i.e. closures, are difficult to deal with in the financial sense of each country and that in many cases they have the exact opposite of the expected fact. That is why the recommendation deals with the possibility of a shorter duration of sentences imposed in prison. Just one of the basic means of achieving this goal is parole itself. As a result, we do not consider it justified to work or propose in this article a tightening of parole because it is completely contrary to the general trend in European criminal legislation.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25387	The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Mico Rogovic, who wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25388	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SNS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 8(1) of the existing Bill on Amendments and Supplements to Criminal Law, i.e. Article 46(1) of the existing Criminal Code, which deals with the matter of probation. Article 8 The bill unwarrantedly foresees stricter conditions for parole. In the existing Penal Code, a convicted person who has endured half the sentence of imprisonment, the court may suspend the sentence if, during the course of the maintenance of the sentence, he has been corrected so that he can be expected to rule well on the grounds of freedom, and in particular that until the time for which the punishment has been imposed, no new criminal act can be committed. Everything here is clear, with a new proposal, that is, by proposing amendments and additions to the Criminal Code, it is intended that instead of half be two-thirds. In this way, the Criminal Code loses its flexibility and since it provides for sanctions that take away one of the basic human rights, i.e. freedom, and since it finds that the facilities in prisons in Serbia are filled, the original part of the Criminal Code should be considered to remain in the position of Article 46, respectively, of Article 48 of the new proposal in that scope. Since crimes can be made out of neglect, the further development of attitudes 1, 2 and 3 also cites these arguments. I must remind you that even before the Penal Code was passed, there was a possibility... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25389	Time. Members of the 8th Amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25390	Of course, when it comes to an anti-civilization member, it reflects the intricacies, but it shows the desire of those who designed this government to bother them, it would not surprise me, in 2009, it was similar in 2003, then Batic advocated the death penalty for at least 15 minutes to be in law, and as far as Homena is concerned by the entire Serbian people, so it is not some sort of problem. But this is really anticivilizing. This is contrary to the resociation measures, and prisons and the execution of the prison's criminal sanctions have first and foremost the capacity to deter and retaliate the perpetrator of a criminal offence. However, they go one step further, and from parole they want to make non-conditional discharges, but that punishment gets primate in terms of retribution, not resociation. That's what's absolutely unacceptable. I don't know of any penologists, any expert who would support what Homen is proposing, but I warn you, he suggests it because he has a problem with the Serb people. One more thing very important, we talked for several days about a special law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions for organised crime. Atypical. Some specificities may exist in terms of the type of criminal sanctions, as they are carried out. There is probably a reason to particularly consider the execution of a 40 - year sentence, because the structure of a person accused or someone who does not have the right to parole is changing, but because of some act, a particular section is being created, that a particular asylum is being made for that kind of people, it is something anti-civilization.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25391	I would have to tell you, given that the secretary of state is not in a position for the Rules of Procedure to answer you, that it is not right to comment that the secretary of state is in the way of the entire Serbian people. If it were the minister and you had instructed him, that he could answer you, of course, I wouldn't intervene. Mr. Krasic, you're in the Rules of Procedure, and I'm asking the rest of you not to punish them.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25392	Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, I don't know what this threat means - to punish you. In what sense can you punish someone so self-initiatively?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25393	You called the Rules of Procedure before my threat. If you see it as a threat... I may also say a warning, but before warning the MPs not to interfere with the speakers in the work and as they speak, and in that sense I said, "I would not impose sanctions, please do not put me in a position to do so." Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25394	I'm the only one in this room that's bothering me, it's you. I'm referring to Article 104. After my presentation, I won't let you comment on what I said. If you think I've hurt the Rules of Procedure, give me a warning, you're famous for that anyway, but to comment on my words, I won't let you or anyone else do it. Let me remind you, at the entrance to this building, Vlajko Stojiljkovic committed suicide. He gave the suicide letter to Filip Stojanovic, not to Ivica Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25395	Don't bring into parliamentary work the major political problems you have. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25396	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, whoever sits a little more than us can do anything, but in his opinion, he has to go somewhere else or someone has to whisper to him. For the SRS, Article 57, which is amended by this Article 11, is unacceptable because it favors those who have committed a crime that poses a greater social danger. Therefore, those who have committed a criminal offence for which they have received a sentence or have been threatened with a sentence of 10 years or more, can be relieved of the sentence of up to seven years, and those who have received a sentence of less than 10 years, it seems to them that the penalty cannot be mitigated at all, because this Article 57, as far as I understand this and I understand the bill, depends on the social danger and the prescribed penalty, and the penalty could possibly be reduced in certain cases. The explanation you gave with this amendment is absolutely unacceptable. It's not about any social danger or increasing punishment, it's about the practice that exists in our judiciary. This is about the interference of the executive authority in the work of the judiciary, this is about such a criminal policy that does not lead to or does not lead to a goal that is primarily envisaged by criminal policy, criminal law and criminal law at all. You haven't convinced me of this explanation of yours, and unfortunately... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25397	The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Jorgvana Tabakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25398	I have submitted an amendment to Article 11, which speaks of the limits for the mitigation of penalties which, in a completely different way, resolve the possibility of easing punishment, but in such a way as to show the inconsistencies of the proponents whose main intention was to tighten criminal policy, but on the other hand, or the strange and raving formulae it does exactly the opposite or its intention to implement in fact a contradictory legislative regulation in the courts to create a delusion about the application of this article. In fact, the law stipulates that the lower limit of imprisonment is for criminal offences, for which a fine can be eased, for 10 or more years. So to ease the sentence for over 10 years of the threatened sentence is not a consistent tightening of criminal policy. What we have proposed with the amendment to delete that part of the word "ten or more years" says in a Serbian understood way that in fact the mitigation of penalties can only apply to those crimes for which the sentence of the upper limit is threatened up to 10 years. Not more, especially since the next legal solutions have been very precisely defined which are more serious crimes for which a sentence of 30 and 40 years is obtained. So, I really think it would be necessary in point 3 of Section 2 and point 1, point 1) to delete this part of "or more", because this and this solution means that you're easing the penalty for crimes for which the punishment is threatened...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25399	The 11th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic and Nebojsa Rangelovic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee accepted the amendment and it became an integral part of the bill. The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Miroslav Petkovic, Milos Aligrudic, Milica Radovic and Jovan Palalic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Spasojevic. Do you want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25400	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the President-in-Office, I have submitted an amendment to Article 14. The draft law amending and supplementing the Criminal Code is deleted. In this regard, Article (7) states: ''For the work described in Article 1 of this Article, a more severe penalty may be imposed than prescribed. The sentence imposed must not go beyond double the prescribed penalty, nor 20 years in prison." The explanation for this amendment is 'Article 14. The law introduces the possibility that the perpetrator and the extended criminal act should be punished more than prescribed for the act. The construction of the prescribed offence was established in favour of the defendant. Related to the front, there would be contradiction between the favourableness of the extended crime and the ability to impose more severe penalties than prescribed, and given that these changes have made more serious criminal policies." So, Mr. Homen, I think you listened very carefully to what I said. Two-thirds of the Penal Code's penalties provide for tightening sanctions, of course we can support such a thing, sure that in the country crime, corruption should be reduced, should be general and prevention in some way through a threatened sentence, but in all of this it has to be taken into account and should not be exaggerated when there is already a possibility and when criminal sanctions are tightened. Once again, I will use the time of the group, Madam President, as a representative of the attorney's office of one great concern, a great dissatisfaction, as colleagues from the Serbian Bar of Lawyers reacted very sharply that they were not involved enough in all of this, when it comes to this agenda. I'll read part of the Chamber's dissatisfaction. "The administrative board of the Serbian Bar Association, held at its session on 4 July 2009, after the funds of public information came to the attention that a set of law in the area of criminal law was expected to enter into the assembly procedure as soon as possible, with great concern, he found it entirely unacceptable for the professional public, and therefore the lawyer association, to this moment, to have no knowledge of the draft or working text of those laws, nor of the solutions envisioned by the new law. Lawyership no longer has its members in the working group that makes up the text. With all the knowledge of the activities so far shown at the adoption of a number of laws, the work of the Ministry of Justice must not be so intransparent and so remote from law enforcement. This will certainly be the reason for us to return to the Council of Bar Associations of Europe, the International Union of Lawyers and all relevant factors from which we have always received support for our views and that, after getting to know the new ones, for us the completely unknown solutions that the new laws will provide for, we define the direction of our further activities. We express hope that future activities of the Ministry of Justice will be fully in the function of passing quality laws. Lawyership, with its potential, always stands at the disposal of such legal solutions. This is why we rightly expect that before those laws enter into the assembly procedure, and if they are already in that procedure, we consider it only celibate to withdraw and return from such a procedure to the Ministry of Justice, in order to be delivered to the Serbian Bar Association, and to hold a public debate on the text of these laws, or a round table on which the views of our association, but also of the entire professional public, would be brought forward. "So, when I talked about this yesterday, it was a little bit of a reaction, as if I were saying, which I would say, by heart. However, here is concrete evidence that Serbia's Bar Association reacted this way. I must express my satisfaction that a New Serbia amendment was accepted when it comes to admitting guilt, a 10-year-old New Serbia amendment has raised the threshold to 12 years. This will certainly make it easier for courts to work, as the new Serbia's goal is to improve laws through discussion in detail and amendments. We've never been malignant, but we just want things to get better. There remains a worrying one thing, which is that two emergency legal remedies have been excluded from the law provided for: an emergency sanctioning request and a request to examine the legality of a judicial verdict. This is a member of the 110th novel. I don't think there was any reason for that. It remains unclear that the reasons for the appeal against the second-degree ruling are limited only to the case where the first-degree release judgment has been amended to the conviction and excluded when the most severe sentence has been imposed and the second-degree court has ruled on the basis of the otherwise established factual situation. Some things are not well done, I think a lot of things have been done quickly. Surely, we welcome the introduction of some new institutes, but it was indeed possible to work slowly, with a good expert public debate, with a greater involvement, as I said, of the Bars, representatives, or holders of judicial functions and so on, and it was not necessary to rush this much. It is my opinion and the New Serbia MP club that the best solution is to apply this CAP as of 1 January 2010, when it comes to the scene of a new law on the territory of courts.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25401	National MPs Milos Aligrudic, Milica Radovic, Miroslav Petkovic and Jovan Palalic submitted to the 15th amendment. Mrs. Radovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25402	We are opposed to the solution that parole can be handed down to the person, or to the person who has been sentenced to prison for less than two years. We believe that the solution that exists in the current still valid law is fully justified. I understand the logic that the promoter had when proposing a member like this. It is somewhat justifiable, if we believe and know that we are the first in Europe to give parole, and that in our criminal law, it is very often pronounced even when there is very little justification for it. By proposing this solution, it will certainly not go in the direction of narrowing down the possibility of its expression. When we compare, on the one hand, this solution that is proposed in the law and, on the other hand, the solution that is ultimately aimed at a mere criminal policy again, I will now say what it is, then it is seen that the representatives of the government did not have the right intention to encourage these. If the case-law is criticised for running a mild criminal policy, then it is completely surprising to extend the application of the Institute of Minority and to criminal acts for which the prison sentence has been threatened for up to five years. The current solution was up to three years. We know what are the crimes for which the sentence of up to five years has been threatened, but it is difficult to understand – in which easy form it can appear that they would lack illegality, so that it could at all cease to exist as crimes. It is these two institutes that are contrary to each other, and they do not make clear the intention of what the legislator of the law has ever wanted to do with such a change in the provision of Article 15.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25403	The 16th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milos Aligrudic, Milica Radovic, Miroslav Petkovic and Jovan Palalic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. The 20th amendment was submitted by Petar Jojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25404	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment relating to Article 20, which is regarding Article 80. We believe that this amendment is quite rational and should be accepted. When a question of legal norm is raised, that it is a rule of conduct protected by a state-owned apparatus, that every rule contains sanctions and disposition, the question of the limitations of a person's encounter is now being raised, and that this measure and sanctions could be implemented is necessary for real and objective conditions to exist. What happens if we have a case like this that the injured and the suspects, or convicted, live in the same building, on the same floor? Who here will now rule out the possibility that they can't meet and see each other, and at what distance? This norm is absolutely not applicable in practice. It won't be possible to carry out in an unlimited number of cases, regardless of whether it's a conditional conviction, whether it's a fine, whether it's a withdrawal of a driver's license. You can't impose sanctions that won't be applied in practice, that's the problem. So disposition is just a rule of human behavior.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25405	The 21st Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Radovic, Miroslav Petkovic, Milos Aligrudic and Jovan Palalic. Does anyone want a word? Mrs. Radovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25406	This provision, as provided for in the Amendments and Supplements Act, is fully prescribed by the Croatian criminal law, which, in view of how it sets this security measure, is genuine, but unfortunately in a negative sense. It lacks one of the basic constituent properties of criminal sanctions, which is that it has to be guessed, it's about confiscation of the case, the perpetrator himself. That is why we believe that the solution that exists in the current law is completely complete because it says that it can only be taken away from it if it is in its possession. As the changes and additions are predicted, it leads to the conclusion that this measure can affect even the third person, or the victim itself, which is even worse. Let's just say we have a situation where a stolen vehicle is taken away, which is the subject of a felony. This sanction, or measure, affects not only the perpetrator, but the third person, whose car is itself. That is why we believe that the solution contained in the current law is completely better.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25407	The word is Mr. Palalic. You have seven minutes and 20 seconds. You'll have to reapply.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25408	President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is a very important member because the question of the relationship that is defined in this law and of course the Government in relation to the matter of property is raised. I don't think the happiest solution was found, the best balance between the protection of property and the protection of basic social values through the regulation of criminal acts, i.e. Instead of the possibility of confiscation of a criminal offence, when it comes to the property of a third party, or not to the property of the person who committed the crime, it is an exception, and the rule to be taken away primarily from the person who committed the crime in whose possession the case is, here it is simply fully relativated in a member who defines this question. I think that property is a very important constitutional category, that it must be approached with caution by such measures that affect property rights and that exactly what counterpart Milica Radovic said – a better and more complete solution, the legal balance still existed in the solutions so far. The way we've tried to change our amendments, this intended member in these amendments to the law, we think that balance between protecting property and protecting social values that are protected by criminal acts, which have been committed by an object in the hands of the perpetrator, has been achieved in the best way.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25409	The 22nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milos Aligrudic, Milica Radovic, Miroslav Petkovic and Jovan Palalic. He has the word Mr. Palalic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25410	I would like to begin by pointing out the opinion of our parliamentary group and the general impression we have when we read the solutions in the amendments to the Criminal Code, that in fact the aim of the legislator was to achieve one prevention and, in fact, leave an impression in public, of course, that prevention is fine, to discourage potential perpetrators of criminal acts to commit crimes. It just dominates this law. However, some of the solutions that are being passed yet, yesterday we discussed, from the CAP and which are in some way seen here and through this Article 22, is that largely, in order to speed up the criminal proceedings and to do other things, some of the rights of the suspects or accused are being narrowed down. We have a case here just like that, of course it's very important that this institute applies to the ban on communication, it's very important and, of course, by some technical solutions it will help prevent the possibility of re-executing the same crimes. We really don't understand, if there has already been a detention, the measure itself prevents communication between the perpetrators of the crime and the damaged. Therefore, why is the time spent in custody not included in that time limit relating to the ban on communication? This gives the impression that it is simply another kind of extra pressure – let him be detained, and now we will further expand that time when communication is banned. There is no actual communication when the person is in custody and there is really no reason not to include the total time in which the communication between the persons who committed the crime and the person whose communication is prohibited is not included. Please accept this amendment, it is completely rational and realistic. So, at the very moment when the person is in custody, he has no ability to communicate with other people.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25411	On the 24th amendment was filed by MP Boris Aleksic, who wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25412	Mr. Homen, I have to ask you again, I really don't understand why you prescribe the terms of the Croatian criminal code. So you're using this Croatian new speech all the time. As you know, Croats use vulgarised Serbian. So they're going to say instead of colleagues -- colleagues, instead of female team or female team, they're going to say -- female team and so on. So I just don't understand why you're doing it. It doesn't make any sense, it's ugly and it's funny. Secondly, Mr. Homen, you are slightly changing criminal legislation in line with EU regulations, NATO pacts, Atlantiss, etc., and look, there is more crime and more mafia. So did prosecutor in Bari, Ratko Knezevic, in an interview with one of the podgorje media, said that, among other things, the tobacco and media mafia is also trying to master the Serbian media space. He said, among other things, the following -- do you know that in Hotel "Ric" in Paris they have already met several times with Sutotic and Djukanovic Aleksandar Vukic and Tomislav Nikolic. The first meeting was in October 2007. There was a journalist present. Why? Because Subotic and Djukanovic have long had a plan to master the media and political space of the former Yugoslavia, and because of their political interests and illegal activities. In the same interview, he said they washed some 2.3 billion between 1990 and 2000, 2.3 billion German marks through the Liechtenstein and Dulvich companies from Cyprus. So, did it make sense to amend criminal legislation when the mafia is growing stronger, covering more and more areas and spheres in this country?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25413	Member of the 25th Amendment was submitted by MP Vlatko Ratkovic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee accepted the amendment, so it became an integral part of the bill. The 25th Amendment was submitted by the Civilian Protector. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 25 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 27th amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic, who wants a word. Here you go, Mr. Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25414	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, unfortunately, the state of Serbia has become the scene of highly organised crime that costs this country billions of euros every year. The crime was discussed in a manner similar to that by Ratko Knezevic, and indirectly his allegations were confirmed by the former Mayor of Novi Sad Maja Gojkovic, who Decidantly stated that the protocol on the construction of a gas thermopower plant in Novi Sad was signed on 10 May 2006 and thus fully elaborated on the claim by Tomislav Nikolic that in October 2007, therefore a year and a half later, at Hotel "Ric" negotiated with Russian investors about the construction of a thermal power plant that had already been built, i.e. the protocol on the construction of that thermal power plant was already signed. Mrs. Maja Gojkovic goes on to say, "My participation in the project began and ended in May 2006 with the public act of signing the protocol. I didn't negotiate with anyone before, and if there were negotiations, then the city was excluded from it. Basically, it is a private private investment on private property, and the city also signed a contract with the EPS on modernising and expanding the existing thermal power plant." She said she knew nothing about the alleged talks between Vukic and Nikolic with investors in Zurich and Moscow on the topic of the newly-sad thermal power plant. So it's quite clear here that there's been a high-level policy and high crime. The SRS, gentlemen of the government, has the evidence, and we are prepared to give you the evidence, that the courier between Sreten Jocic, called Joco Amsterdam...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25415	The 27th Amendment was jointly submitted by Parliamentarians Lasslo Varga, Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac and Arpad Fremond. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 29 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Verica Radet, who wants a word. Here you go, Mrs. Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25416	Article 29 refers to Article 125. The criminal code, which speaks of the criminal part of exposure to dangers, where you from the government have proposed two new attitudes and predicted that if someone leaves without help or in a state or opportunity dangerous to the life or health of a minor or a burdened woman, they will be punished by a prison of six months to five years. Since it is a qualified piece, the SRS thinks this punishment should be increased and be between three or eight years old. Also, the second point is that if a crime like this has resulted in severe health disorder or other physical injury to a minor or a burdensome woman, you say that such calls will be punished from one to eight years, and we have predicted and suggested that it be between five and 10 years old, because it is truly amazing that someone can only get one year in prison for such a crime. The third point is that if the death of a leftover person is due to the act of Article 1 of this article, I stress that it is a minor or a burdensome woman, you have predicted that a sentence of two to 12 years would be imposed for such an act, and the SRS thinks that a sentence between 10 and 15 years should be provided here. Because imagine that someone in this condition leaves a minor or a burdened woman and that death arises and that the person who caused her death only gets two years in prison. In general, this range between two and 12 years, or so large ranges are...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25417	It's been two minutes. National MPs Milos Aligrudic, Milica Radovic, Miroslav Petkovic and Jovan Palalic submitted to the 30th amendment. Mrs. Radovic wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25418	When it comes to amendments and additions to the Penal Code, the legislator tightens the fines for about a third of the crimes. We feel, with all due respect to the representatives of the ministry sitting here, that it is a non-scienceal and layman's thinking that will, unfortunately, not contribute more effectively to the repression of crime. I think it's more on the line of general understanding of the unprofessional public that requires repression and which requires stricter penalties. I think there are political points on the line right now. The question is whether we are the most repressive society in Europe and whether we deserve to have the strictest criminal code in all of Europe. Unnecessary amendments to the Criminal Code are harmful, not only for criminal law, but also for the work of criminal justice in general, because the next few years, due to the enormous number of amendments and additions, will have to be dealt with again by the issue of applying the mild law itself. That is why we believe that the solution provided for in the current law is still more appropriate than that proposed by amendments and additions.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25419	The 34th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic, who has a word. Here you go, Mr. Crassy.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25420	With this amendment, we intervene on that Member of the Bill amending something prescribed in Article 135. It's a criminal code, and it's a criminal act of coercion, so it's a serious and real in time and space force and threats that have a specific purpose. Of course, an Anglo-Saxon school is now being applied, so the organized group is being divided by putting in a new attitude about the organized criminal group and of course people who understand these things are laughing because of these changes, because they're being done by people who haven't worked in the judiciary at all. People representing Boris Tadic may work before courts or these law offices to make it easier for their cases to pass, however, there is a big difference between the group and the organised criminal group. And here, to think about it, read some literature, see what a crowd is, what a congregation is, and take a nice example, that's so-called. Essene lynch. But what's worth telling you about these things, when you're tasked with destroying everything that's known, clearly, recognizable, both theories and practices. For you and the one, the two, the plural, it's all the same for you. Of course there must be one serious discussion of such a bill, when the proposal is unserious, when the proposal is luxuriant.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25421	National MP Veroljub Arsic submitted to the 35th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Mr. Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25422	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, apparently the legislator believes that the problems he has in the judiciary and with the functioning of the law and compliance with the law can obviously be resolved by increasing maximum penalties for certain types of work, including by adding new works in this area. However, the most common problem in this area is this minimum sentence and judgments brought by competent courts, not by law. In this article, you have increased the ceilings, the lower limits remain the same. Therefore, if a three - to - three - year sentence was intended for an act, and you are now increasing to five, someone will still receive judgments three, four or six months, as was the case under the old law, or currently in force. So you're not going to solve this problem, but the problem is that the criminal policy taken by the Supreme Court, and later all the lower courts, try in a legitimate way to bring you into line with the real situation in society. There is also a new qualification of the piece that says - who works under Article 1 of this article towards the President of the Republic, the President of the National Assembly, the Prime Minister, the Constitutional Court judge, the judge, the prosecutor, the deputy prosecutor and the person who performs matters of public importance in the field of information relating to the affairs he performs will be sentenced from one to eight years. But this list, if you wanted to make it, then you should have done it right. Let's say for the President of the Republic, the President of the Parliament, the Prime Minister. But could the Minister be threatened, could he also be a member of the People's Council? When it comes to matters of public importance in the field of information, and you went quite selectively, so for example, you forgot...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25423	Time. Do you want to use it? No problem. I'll let you go again now, but just so you know you're using that time.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25424	I'd ask you to ask me before you take away my word and there's no need to rush so fast, we'll end up the way you planned. I wanted to say that, for example, as a public function and a public job, it is not intended by the draft law to provide legal and professional assistance to the judicial and other state authorities, and I can also list it, but I still believe that the level of punishment from years to eight years for such specific acts is extremely, extremely high and it seems to me that the proposer wanted to solve some current problem, which certainly should not work, but rather make a lasting solution that will long, long to remain in place.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25425	I ask the MPs to announce when they want to use time longer than is intended or we can agree that it is understood, but it must be true for everyone, since everyone else, except for your MP group, is announcing it. National MPs Milos Aligrudic, Milica Radovic, Miroslav Petkovic and Jovan Palalic submitted to the 35th amendment. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find it has become an integral part of the bill. The 35th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, who has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25426	My amendment actually changes Article 38. For the sake of the public, I must say that it is a threat to the security of a person such as the President of the Republic, the President of the National Assembly, the President of the Government, the Judge of the Constitutional Court, the Public Prosecutor, the Deputy Prosecutor and a person who performs matters of public importance in the field of information relating to the affairs he conducts. The draftr of the law, the government says, will be punished by prison from one year to eight years. I note that this is about the highest state officials or members of their families. We are looking for an increase in the sentence of 10 to 15 years, not from one to eight, given primarily the importance of committing a criminal offence, that it is necessary to further tighten the impediment for this criminal offence, because it is the highest state officials, although we do not understand why there are no MPs here in this group, given that the National Assembly, under the Constitution, is still the highest state body. You seem to call upon those who would threaten or kill to do so freely, because they will spend a year, two, three prisons, instead of really, in view of our near past, threatening them with a much greater punishment, to distract them from something like that. This way, blackmail is something that is very possible on our political scene, which is already happening. I understand why there are no MPs here, to tell you the truth, keeping in mind who keeps everything under control by the MPs, what lobbyists are about.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25427	Ambassador Aleksandar Martinovic tabled an amendment proposing the addition of a new member of 39. He wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25428	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, gentlemen of the government, the SRS is making a contribution to the fight against organised crime in Serbia and by giving you information from the Serbian Parliament that can be of far-reaching importance for the lighting of numerous criminal affairs. So, I'm going to pick up where I left off. The SRS claims and disposes of evidence, and we are prepared to give you this evidence, that the courier between Sreten Jocic, called Joco Amsterdam, and Stanko Subotic, Canet Zappac, the king of the tobacco mafia, was Alexander Vukic. He went to Moscow for meetings with Caneta Frog and transmitted information from Joce Amsterdam Canet and vice versa. Otherwise, gentlemen of the government, the cartel of Milo Djukanovic, Canet Zappac and their associates committed a whole series of serious murders. Here's what the man who was extremely well informed about, Ratko Knezevic says. "It is a strange enough coincidence for every normal human brain that they have died, and that the murderers have never been discovered in this order: Vanja Bocan in Athens, beginner of the job, significant fundier of the DPS and one time Sutotic's mentor, then Radovan Stojić called Bajja, killed in Belgrade because he dared to recalibrate Mr. Sutotic; Jusuf Jusa Bulic, killed in Belgrade after trying to collect debt from Sutotic for Bocan; Goran Zugic, killed in Podgorica, chief of the Podgorica police and most intimate friend of Sutotic and Pulan Djukanovic; Beli Rasopović, the second man in office and the first in power of the current Montenegrin DB; Milan Rajkovic, a co-worker of Montenegro's service, killed in Belgrade after meeting of a close species with Baja Sekalic, Subitićic, a self-mucher, who had been killed in 2001 and killed by Jocian during the year".
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25429	Time. The 45th amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee accepted the amendment, and it became an integral part of the bill. The 45th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Radovic, Miroslav Petkovic, Milos Aligrudic and Jovan Palalic. Here you go, Mrs. Radovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25430	Provisions, i.e. the institute so-called house arrest for us is not controversial, but it is a very controversial way of defining it. It is said here that the court will take care of technical possibilities, as well as other circumstances of importance for measuring penalties. If it's interpreted like this, then the Institute of Home Detention can be very controversial. What does that mean? This means that if the court has certain technical options for the supervision of convicted persons, it will be able to impose this sentence, and if it does not possess it, it will not be able to do so. In this way, convicted persons are brought into a completely unequal position. This is a discriminatory provision for us, because you cannot identify at the same time house arrest, which is not the greatest restriction on freedom of movement, with the prison itself and the person referring to the maintenance of a prison sentence in some of the correctional institutions. It's about two full measures. According to us, house arrest should be one special punishment, if not sanctions, because other than linguistic similarities, there are no excessive other similarities between them. It is also a disputed provision where the court is said to take care of circumstances of importance for measuring penalties. What does that mean? These are difficult and exaggerating circumstances. The court cannot take care of them, because therefore such a provision is not binding on the court. The court must take into account when giving the sentence of difficult and extenuating circumstances, rather than taking account, which is a milder form of obligation itself. I'll also use a little time, if you agree, of the parliamentary groups. In our view, this is in any case a valid institute that needs to be applied, but it is necessary to amend the very definition of attitude 7, which deviates from the proper application of this institute. If you have a person who maintains a prison sentence in one of the correctional institutions, it is completely limited in terms of freedom of movement. It cannot generalise with its loved ones, it must be fully subject to the house order of a criminal and correctional institution, i.e. the institution, and if the person endures the punishment in the house, it is not, in any way, excluded from that social life. It communicates with its loved ones and, in the end, does not interrupt private and social contacts because it does not go to a detention facility. On the basis of what I've said so far, we believe that there are very reasonable reasons for the provisions on house arrest to be applied, but that this is a special punishment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25431	National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 47th amendment. Mr. Jojic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25432	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is about an amendment that has been filed by the SRS, and this is about Chapter 18, about the envisaged norms that refer to crimes against gender freedom. The SRS believes it is necessary to tighten prison sentences when a rape offence is committed. These crimes are common. So far, sanctions and threatened penalties have not reached their own special or general prevention. It is necessary in this area, when it comes to particularly dangerous crimes, which pose a particular social danger, to sharpen the penalties and thus impose adequate penalties on courts for the offences committed in the areas provided for in Chapter 18 of the Criminal Code. We propose that these penalties be significantly sharpened, given the importance of protected goods and social dangers.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25433	The amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric, who has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25434	Amendment to Article 48 relating to Article 179 The criminal code is a logical clue to what MP Petar Jojic was talking about. Here we have the crime of “the promise of the powerless ones, ” and then it is said in attitude 1. "whoever makes a promise or equals an act of exploitation, etc., and has certain consequences, will be punished from two to ten years." The amendment proposes – from five to 10 years. If serious physical injuries occur, the amendment is 15 to 20 years to punish, and if the death result occurs or if the child is concerned, then the minimum sentence to be imposed is 15 years. I'm curious, Mr. Homen, you gave a daily newspaper an interview, where you said that the analysis of the criminal penalties imposed was not working for a long time, and how did you know in advance that these penalties might be too harsh? We in the SRS think that the perpetrators of these very serious crimes, where, besides these laws, visible consequences arise, others are moral, medical injuries, it's a mental injury, we assume that they should be treated. How, who can treat them? We are witnessing how and how we have adopted laws that treat this problem. In addition to the treatment of the perpetrators of these crimes, it seems to us that we should also treat the legislators of such a law.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25435	The amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic, who wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25436	With this amendment, we tried to further sharpen the threatened prison sentence for the crime of a promise against a child. After the amendment was written, we were really in the dilemma of whether the punishments that we have also proposed for the crime of a promise against a child again represent small penalties, low penalties. It was immediately clear to us, and there were no doubts, that the punishments for the promise of the child you suggested were in attitudes 1 from 1 to 10 years, and in paragraphs 2 to 12 and in paragraphs 3 to 5 to 18, for such severe forms of crime were really small. Is there anything more difficult for a child, for his family, for a society in general, than when some frustrated, seemingly ill, but deeply responsible perpetrator of a crime commits a crime of promise against a minor, helpless and innocent child? Is the legal minimum of one or two years adequate punishment? Does this legal minimum achieve individual and general prevention for these crimes? If you don't know what prevention is, especially general, look at a little, for example, football games of the English championship, where you'll see how it's done, how those with high-end penalties managed to prevent the execution of these crimes. That's why I suggest you accept this amendment and tighten the fines for the crime of making promises against a minor child.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25437	National MP Dejan Mirovic submitted to the 50th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic, who wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25438	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I will continue where I was interrupted. The SRS suggests to the Ministry of Justice and to the competent state authorities that Sreten Jocic, called Joca Amsterdam, gives the status of a protected witness, i.e. a witness, and then let him talk about money flows in the Balkans from the early 1990s to the present day, what are the links between politicians from various countries of the former SFRY, who traded drugs, who traded white slaves, who traded tobacco, and how is it possible that, while the vast majority of citizens of Serbia, but also other countries of the former Yugoslavia, were morally or materially failing, individuals came to an enormous wealth? I already said in November 1996, the Italian government has publicly said that it has reliable evidence that Montenegro is the site of organised crime and that it is the leader of this organised crime Milo Djukanovic, a man who visited Olli Rehn two days ago, a man who you gave the passport to the Republic of Serbia, contrary to the Law on Travel Documents and a man who now apparently intends to bind politicians and criminals into a chain and that the chain is stronger not only than the state of Serbia, but than all the countries in the former Yugoslavia's space, and that his sponsor is people from the EU. I draw your attention, gentlemen of the government, there are squadrons of the death of Milo Djukanovic, Canet Zapca, king of the tobacco mafia, who killed many people in Serbia and Montenegro and Croatia. Joca Amsterdam knows the reliable details about the murder of Ivo Pukanic, a man who published many truths through his "Nacional" list about how Milo Djukanovic was financed and how he organised the trade in tobacco, narcotics and white slavery and how he became the main mob boss in the Balkans.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25439	Member of the 52nd Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25440	Article 52 is amended as follows: The criminal code, which speaks of a criminal act of subjugation and enabling sexual intercourse to be carried out, and in the first position says "whose leads a minor to commit a promise, with it an equal act or another sex act, will be punished by imprisonment," you say "from one to eight years and a fine", and we suggest that it be between three to eight years and a fine. In the second point, "who makes it possible to make a promise, an equal act or another half-year-old with a minor", you say "will be punished by imprisonment from six months to five years and fine", and we suggest that it be between one and five years and a fine. Of course, it is indisputable, I'm sure, among all of us here, and probably in the public, that these crimes unfortunately have been common lately, and somehow it seems to me to have something to do with accepting some of the sick Euro-Atlantic values, and that we really need to get on the path of these most serious crimes, the most difficult in terms of psychological torture, or the fact that anyone who has been committed this kind of crime for the rest of his life is suffering from this crime. You should have, when you've already changed the law and you've been tightening the fines, to accept the amendment to the SRS, but it would have been better if, as we said yesterday, you had taken this job seriously and we weren't changing these laws every minute, but that a codified criminal code was actually done, which could possibly be complemented from time to time, and that the social weight of every crime would be taken seriously. And to accept what we're proposing, at least when it comes to this proposal, where there are no ideological interferences, where really as lawyers experts we suggest something to you also to lawyers and experts. I'm sorry that Mrs. Malovic... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25441	The 53rd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25442	This amendment concerns a member of the prostitution mediation. We ask that the criminal policy be tightened and the penalties sharpened, both the minimum and the maximum, but you know the modern society itself, as the oldest craftsman, did something else. We don't practically have a definition of prostitution right now. We really don't have it. Does this only apply to something that's as a result of gender differences? We have to say that there are other forms of prostitution, there's also this political prostitution, there's economic prostitution, international and all sorts of prostitution, where something that's probably the dearest of men goes to the market at a low price to survive, but here you treat pimps and pimps as quotes. We are against it, and that is why we have submitted the amendment, asking for these penalties to be increased. If I'm already on my way in this manner, doesn't it seem to you that these international intermediaries who make one body of authority and opposition, one soul, which they want to control, simply resemble some mediators who allow people to give up something that they swore before God, before God, before the people, before the children, before the Constitution. That's the kind of job we do, and we don't actually have the definition of prostitution. That's the main lack of this member, we don't have a definition of prostitution. If we had a definition of prostitution, it would probably be easier for those who have proposed amendments to the law to be directed in time and space.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25443	The 54th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. Here you go, Mrs. Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25444	In Article 54, paragraph 4, you provide for a prison sentence of six months to three years for the presentation of pornographic material and the exploitation of children for pornography, and we ask that the sentence be between three and eight years, primarily in view of the frequency of the execution of this crime and its exceptional social danger. This is to a greater extent the purpose of the general and special prevention of crime, and we believe that this crime is one of the most brutal attacks on the traditional morale of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. It is obvious that this is a successful import undertaking that brings a lot of money from the EU, but we are here to protect the interests of our citizens above all, to protect our children and it is inconceivable to predict a sentence of six months to three years for something like this, and we are all witnessing that newspapers are filled with cases like this, or crimes like this. With a criminal policy like this, it's hard to deal with this monster.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25445	National MP Jelena Travar-Miljević submitted to the 54th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 55 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic, who wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25446	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, when it comes to a criminal offence relating to the proposed Article 55, which amends Article 85 of the current Criminal Code, the SRS considers it necessary to give this criminal act as harsh as possible, as has been said by my colleagues, in order to achieve both general and special prevention, an influence on others not to commit such crimes. The sentences were very mild. It takes these penalties to be sharpened, not to be six months, as it has been so far, but to sharpen that punishment. Instead of six months to five years, it's three to eight years and a fine. Then justice would be served. The SRS therefore proposes to tighten these penalties for known reasons, especially when considering a protective facility and a social danger.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25447	National MP Jelena Travar-Miljević submitted to the 55th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Boris Aleksic, who wants a word, submitted to Article 58 of the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25448	Here's the thing, Mr. Homen, I guess you're aware of what the SRS is trying to achieve, which is why we want to increase penalties for the most serious crimes. I will give you just one example, drugs in the Republic of Serbia, in Belgrade is also the cheapest in the environment. Half a quadruple of heroin kids can buy for 200 dinars on the street. A heroin quarterback can buy for 400 to 500 dinars on the street. The Quater is usually a dose that is enough for addicts, the daily dose reconciles their needs. What's the state doing in that direction? It's cheaper for them to buy half a quarterback or a quint of heroin than to have a coke in a coffee shop. Why don't you arrest the drug mob? You know who they are, who deals drugs, why the D.A. and the police don't do their job? It is known that one of the biggest drug dealers in Europe is Joca Amsterdam. You heard we asked a question, the prosecution has to answer that, the police, you have to answer that. A link between Joce Amsterdam and Stanko Subotic Canet, their attempts to master the media space in Serbia. We asked the question -- is it true that Mr. Alexander Vukic was a courier between these two criminals? This must be clearly and accurately determined once. The SRS also advocates that all citizens of the Republic of Serbia be protected, respect for human rights absolutely. If someone is at risk of being protected by the police. Do what you have to do to defeat the drug mafia, as it will soon rule over a complete society in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25449	Mr Tomislav Nikolic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25450	The MPs of the MP group who constantly mentions Mr. Alexander Vukic, and some of them will remain remembered as people who knew how to pronounce his name, reminds me of the ship's sinking crew, and they all ran down to expand the hole through which the water enters. It still reminds me of some events from my village of Bajcetin, when through the village goes either well, a clean child, or a good host or any other dog barks, all the dogs in the village, and everyone barks at that good child, both to that host and to any passerby. I know all about what the SRS has been doing for 18 years. I'm not at your level to tell you that. You guys deal with politics. You're not up to your fingernails to Alexander Wolf. He's for you a man who was the best law school student, doesn't quote other people's sources, doesn't surf the Internet to know what to say the next day. It organises the strongest, best, most frequent party in Serbia. You found a connection for him because it's been written by some newspaper. That newspaper was written about Vojislav Seselj as a murderer. The newspaper said Vojislav Seselj met with Cumet on a turn, that he organised all the killings in Serbia. Has anyone ever attacked and called you for that? Did that switch to the SRS, those crazy signposts in the paper? You're talking about Milo Djukanovic, that's the president of the state whose Vojislav Seselj went to inauguration. You're acting like you haven't lived all these years. You got your hands on an article in the paper to build your own policy on it, so now in Zemun and don't come to So sessions, you're embarrassed.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25451	National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 59th amendment. Mr. Martinovic, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25452	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, it is no longer a question of whether or not there will be an SRS. If Serbia's citizens want it to exist, if they don't want it, it doesn't exist. The question here is whether or not there will be a state of Serbia. The state of Serbia today is threatened by organised crime with which Mr Tomislav Nikolic is obviously connected. This is not the subject of Aleksandar Martinovic, said Ratko Knezevic, and this is indirectly confirmed by Maja Gojkovic, a woman who runs a party called "The People's Party", that the protocol on the construction of a gas power plant in Novi Sad was signed in May 2006 and that in October 2007, a year and a half later, the theoretical chance was not to discuss the construction of a gas plant in Novi Sad in Paris. Absolutely no one can convince that story. Whoever Milo Djukanovic is and what he does knows best about this, the Italian prosecutor's office in Bari, even Olli Rehn, a man who during the night, suddenly became a friend of Mr Tomislav Nikolic, a man who was also dumped overnight by the Chetnik Duke in the European commissioner. This is obviously about organised crime and politics. What is most dangerous of all, death squadrons today rule both Serbia and Montenegro. Death squadrons are also responsible for the murder of all these people we talked about. Who knows, maybe it has something to do with the unexposed murder of former Federal Minister Pavel Bulatovic. The state and the judicial authorities have not yet delivered a final statement. Of course, the cap of this entire action is Ollie Ren, the man who has the task of binding...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25453	Mr. Aleksic, there is no basis for replication, because Mr. Martinovic replied on behalf of the parliamentary group. Mr Tomislav Nikolic sought the replica because it was said to be related to crime. That's the basics.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25454	That statement was the basis for punishment, Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic, not for my replica. If it doesn't touch you that someone here calls a man involved in organized crime, that's your problem. I'm really involved in this. I formed that SRS. I thought I was forming a party, and I actually formed a group of citizens here just looking at how they're going to rock all those who slip under her tent, under control, and all those who want to live their lives. If there were morals in this society and it wasn't such a disturbed system of values, you, Mr. Martinovic, would tear up at least 50 more shoes until you spoke to me in such a tone. First of all, I didn't deserve it from you at all. Secondly, you don't have any proof at all. You only serve that Vojislav Seselj has two or three speakers in the hall and thus continues to implement the policy against which I was, from which I escaped and from which you would all be very pleased to escape. What do I do to you? I've been reminding you for seven or eight months what life is and what politics is, and you're burying yourself deeper and deeper. That's your problem. I'm really sorry that I made it possible for all of you to enter parliament. I'm really glad that after the next election, I probably won't see any of you in this room anymore. (The national envoy Gordana Pop-Lazic throws out of place. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25455	Mr Martinovic replied on behalf of the parliamentary group. He can get Mr. Martinovic's word again or Mr. Boris, who previously reported for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. You can't speak on the same subject by hurting the Rules of Procedure. You didn't get the line. Mr. Martinovic, Injury of the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25456	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, so I think the SRS was quite clear, you don't have to ask anyone from the SRS. The state has so far had the practice of giving the status of a protected witness to certain criminals. Here, this is our proposal, give the status of a protected witness to Happy Jocic, so-called. Joci Amsterdam, let him talk about the ties between politicians and the biggest crime lords in the Balkans, both in Serbia and Montenegro and Croatia. Let him tell you what links are between people such as Hrvoje Petrac, Milo Djukanovic, Cane Frog, etc. Let him tell you who from the EU knew all along who was dealing drugs, who was dealing narcotics, who was dealing tobacco. You think Europe didn't know that. You think they didn't take a percentage, so you think those who are now telling you about some European democratic civilization standards had nothing to do with this shameful trade that was happening in the Balkans. So it absolutely doesn't matter what I say or any of my colleagues from the SRS. You have the right to be able to give the status of a protected witness to people who are suspected of committing serious crimes. You give them the status of a protected witness, and then let them say what they have to say about everything that happened, not just in the 1990s, but about everything that came directly preceded and what happened since September 2008, when people like this funded an attempt to break up the SRS, as the only anti-globalist party that did not want Serbia to fully put itself under the new world order regime and the EU, or their common capo, Olli Rehn.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25457	You did not say which member was injured, and I am obliged to remind you all of a member of our 101st Rules of Procedure who says: "If the MP in his presentation at the National Assembly is insolently expressing himself on the MP from another parliamentary group, stating his name and name or function, or misreading his presentation, the MP to whom the presentation relates has the right to replication. If offensive expressions refer to a parliamentary group, or a parliamentary party whose MPs belong to that group, the president of the parliamentary group has on behalf of the parliamentary group the right to reply." Please, with respect for this member, you do not have the right to reply. We've completed these dialogues. [[Gordana Pop-Lazic: On this second replica exhibition.]] You don't have the right to a replica. Now I've read to you why. Mr. Boris Aleksic, have you advertised a breach of the Rules of Procedure? Mr. Boris Aleksic, please tell me which member.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25458	I'll say, Article 104, the dignity of the National Assembly. Just so we're clear on some things, please, it's no big deal. Under number one, therefore, Vojislav Seselj, when leaving for the inauguration of Milo Djukanovic, left before Montenegro recognised an independent Kosovo and left to prevent bloodshed in Montenegro. If the new Progressives, who are instructed by Olli Rehn and who are preparing to travel to the United States, because they cannot travel to Russia, believe that there was supposed to be bloodshed in Montenegro...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25459	I'm sorry, what's the matter with the Rules of Procedure? Please, you want to explain.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25460	Dignity has been injured, because the president of the SRS and the entire party are simply being defiled in such a way as to bring the truth out.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25461	The injury refers to events at the session, you know that well. Don't really put me in a position...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25462	Just look at this detail, the man said that we don't quote in our speeches who we quote and where we take quotes from. Both Aleksandar Martinovic and all SRS MPs accurately state where the quotes came from. Look what he did. He was, in order to make himself too smart, the other day he quoted parts of Morris Jolie's book "Conversations in Hell between Montesquia and Makiaveli", probably made these two names sound. However, the book is known for its first time to publish parts of the Sionic Wise Protocol. He's a man who advocates Euro-Atlantic integration, and he doesn't know...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25463	Don't talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25464	Just one more detail, please...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25465	There's no details. You're talking about things that have nothing to do with the breach of the Rules of Procedure. You don't have a word. Mrs. Pop-Lazic advertised the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25466	Mrs. Djukanovic, Djukanovic, and you might be Djukanovic, I don't know, Djukanovic in my head. You see, if we want this parliament to look like a parliament, all must be subject to the same rules. We really expect you to treat us all in the same way, without any prior agreements or favors. What I wanted to say on behalf of the parliamentary group is, not in my intention to defend anyone, just for the sake of the public, to make a certain truth. The SRS coup, which was carried out, was done by means of Western forces and the will of the Western forces, and it did damage the SRS at the moment, but it caused huge damage to the Serbian opposition, and thus to the Serb people. That act will be judged by history. So she's gonna give one court of law who's at which historic moment of what she's done. About party interest to worry now that our state is falling apart, it's, you know, just politics. We are in the SRS dealing with politics, because we want to preserve the state. We with such morally marginal personalities wouldn't want to get any better at all. We call on the public authorities and the public prosecutor to respond to all this.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25467	Mr. Nikolic, what's the basis of the call? (Tomislav Nikolic: Replica. There's nothing personalized, no please, nothing personalized. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25468	Article 104, injured dignity of the National Assembly. Here it is said that we should all be equal, that we all have the same rights and obligations in the congregation. That's what I'm asking from the SRS parliamentary group. Three days they've been muddying the SNS, Alexander Vukic, Tomislav Nikolic, and when I dare speak one word, then they're not even and then there's a disturbance of human values in the National Assembly. So when you go into some kind of accounting, count on someone to hit you back. The SRS didn't make a coup, you still exist, no one took you over. Your president is the same, your leadership is the same, only your results are not the same. You have driven out those who have no value to you. Yes, good for you, you've lost those who are worthless. Don't count on us at all. And that's about breaking up the opposition, and then 18 years of the SRS is breaking up the opposition. Did I ever say it was breaking Serbia? I didn't. You think the opposition is right or wrong, you want to go with her or you don't. When we offered to form power in Zemun, those of us who are in opposition, you jumped out of it. I would ask you not to speak to me, but you have this microphone, he uses it to talk to the MPs amongst themselves. So when we offered the opposition to form power, you didn't want to. Who's breaking up the opposition? And who thinks of Serbia? Well, I guess everyone here in this room wants it well. Everyone has the right to their own judgment and to their own opinion. Are you the guardians of the right to make Serbia rich, big, free? Have we achieved as an SRS of our own desires? In 18 years, what have we accomplished? It seems to have to be done in some other way, not just by gravitating and sticking your finger around in all directions. Whoever you don't like, he's a criminal, he's a drug dealer. Is that right, I'm that criminal and drug dealer? And that's what you're telling me? So look into my children's eyes afterwards. Shame on you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25469	The 59th Amendment was submitted by Mirko Munjic. Would you like a word, Mr. Lightning? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25470	With this amendment, we are trying to mitigate the threatened sentence, the prison for the crime referred to in Article 192, paragraph 2. Criminal code. The question is, what makes you say that for a crime against a child, even if it was done out of trouble, you'll have four times less punishment than it was? Four hundred percent lighter sentence, from one year to three months. Is this for you the value that children have so reduced? Four times down? I know it's reduced the birth rate in this country. We all know that an entire city of 25 to 30 thousand people disappears because of that birth rate in this country annually. But where did you get that reverse proportion here? By prescribing four times the penalty for this crime, as if a big brother or a gay association or a pedophile association had intervened here, or some of the true friends of the Serbian state from NGOs. Your concern for the damaged can only be seen from one brief example that happened in Ariel. After a car accident where the boy was killed and sentenced to two-and-a-half years, after some time, the Office of the President of the State pardoned the perpetrator of the crime. After that, the father of that unfortunate man committed suicide. It shows what your concern for the damaged, what your concern for the citizens of Serbia is.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25471	On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure, the Committee on Justice and Administration tabled an amendment to Article 60. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I skipped? Excuse me. Mirko Lightning, huh? ) Member of the 59th Amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. I'm really sorry. National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 59th amendment. Here you go, Mr. Perry.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25472	Given that you're skipping me, and as a member of the Serbian Radical Party, I have to say that the SRS was, is and will be the biggest political party, and for one reason there is a man who doesn't run day-to-day politics and who isn't at all shifty, wherever he is. The SRS policy will always be a fight against crime and criminals, and mobsters anyway. [[Applause]] We now, members of the SRS, ask the irresponsible authority of the Republic of Serbia to do something together towards children. Therefore, the SRS submitted an amendment to Article 59 and to Article 192. A criminal law, which is said to change the family condition of a child by setting up a replacement or otherwise, will be punishable by a prison of six months to five years. We suggest it be - three to eight years old. Now, you see how important it would be if the minister of justice attended today's session, given that he was a parent. I think she would agree with the SRS' proposal that sanctions provided for such crimes here, which have recently, unfortunately, been on the rise in Serbia, to accept it as a parent, not only as someone who is professional. In the position of the 2nd member, it is proposed that the minimum sentence imposed be three months, even if this crime is committed with indemnity. So it's about trying to protect the children, so I ask that this amendment be accepted in the day to vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25473	On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure, the Committee on Justice and Administration tabled an amendment to Article 60. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Member of the 60th Amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic, who wants a word. Here you go, Mr. Mirovic. Sign up. Is he here? No, I don't. He doesn't want anyone. Members of the 61st Amendment were submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Do you want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25474	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, if the state really wants to deal with crime, then it must strike those who are the greatest and the most dangerous. When Serbian judicial authorities launched the "Network" action against Stanko Sutotic - Canet Zapca, the only state in the Balkans that did not want to participate in the action in any way and that did not want Serbian authorities to give the data available was Djukanovic's Montenegro. Stanko Subotic – Cane Frog was arrested in Russia, Moscow. He's in custody. It was taken out of custody by Oleg Deripask and Zoran Bećirovic. One of the first people to visit him last summer at the Moscow hotel "Ric-Karlton" was Almighty Milo Djukanovic. By the way, Milo Djukanovic met with Gelbard and Andy Ber, adviser to Clinton for anti-terrorism in 1999. Gelbard told him on that occasion: “Mr. President, you now have your suits, some cash on your bills, and I know, you bought a good, new, big plane, maybe it's time to make a real democratic state with our help now, and because of our ideas about how the Balkans should be arranged someday. Now, let's say, we know that by means of one of your football players, you arranged a meeting with the owner of a bank in Geneva, Mr. Bruce Rapaport, for this Saturday. We know what this gentleman will offer you, because he's on our blacklist because of the huge amount of dirty money he's managed to launder. We don't recommend that meeting. It's not a place, nor a good contact for you. “ Djukanovic, of course, says: “Yes, thanks for the warning. I didn't know. I will not go at all." On Saturday, however, Milo Djukanovic met with the said banker in Geneva.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25475	Member of the 62nd Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Here you go, Mrs. Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25476	"A full-time person who makes a promise or is equal to a full act with a minor relative by blood in a legal line or with a minor brother, or sister, will be punished by prison," you say for six months to five years, we think that here should increase the sentence and be – from three to eight years old. It's an interesting argument from the government why our amendment isn't accepted. You say: “The amendment is not accepted for the reason that the bill’s solution but for the tightening of the sentence for this crime has been carried out in proportion to the increased level of punishment and for the other crimes. ” What does this explanation mean? So you plotted it or someone dictated it to you, it's a holy letter and it can't move. You could have given some more reasons if you didn't want to increase the sentence for this crime, and I believe that the entire public of Serbia would be in favour of accepting this amendment that we have proposed. Because, you will allow, it is difficult to find a more serious crime than this crime when birth is committed, that is, the promise of a minor relative by blood in a straight line or in a sideline between a brother and a sister. Unfortunately, it also appears to be the result of our raving without any criteria for Euro-Atlantic integration, and this crime is increasingly happening in Serbia, as a result of the Serbian family, as a basic cell of society, being in a serious crisis.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25477	National MP Jelena Travar-Miljević submitted to the 62nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. The 65th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25478	Article 65. The draft law concerns Article 205. A criminal code and, of course, all of this applies to the crime of robbery theft, a very specific act of theft. Unlike the promoters, the amendments and additions to this law, we are looking for a stricter punishment for this crime, precisely because of the way it's done. Of course, stealing as a basic work has its own forms and qualifications, which are reflected in previous members of this law. Then the question really arises why does the government not accept such a proposal, where we ask that those sanctions be strengthened in the fight against crime? And then we really came to the conclusion -- that it doesn't answer to the government for one simple reason why mugging may be Alibaba and 40 robbers, and they can, even in such places as the National Assembly, boasting about how they stole resignations, statements, and that the court does not move anything. Probably in a portable sense, it has something to do with the robbery theft, because of the group's organisation, but if we know that Olly Rehn, NATO pact and these other sponsors of life and death in Serbia, then for that kind of crime, there is no sanction for this political robbery. It's primarily about coalition capacities, potentials, whatever the tank has a six amper battery. Someone wants to be a tank, to be seen as a tank, but what – there's a problem, a small battery, only six ampers? When the key is pushed, it can't even turn on the tank. This is where the Government of the Republic of Serbia comes.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25479	The 66th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. Here you go, Mrs. Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25480	For the crime of SRS robbery, it requires an increase in fines. In Article 66, point 1 of the word "prisonment from three to 15 years" requires that the words "prisonment from 15 to 20 years" be replaced. Here we have "at least five years" both in one case and another, and we ask it to be at least 10 years, and that's the only thing that seems right to me if we really want to achieve both prevention and criminal policy of deterring such a serious crime. But those who went to Brussels for a meeting with Olli Rehn, arguing that one condition was that no one knew about the meeting before, agreed because Vuk Jeremic himself said that the foreign ministry had been consulted on it and that it had to be consulted. Now they'd like to go to Washington via Moscow, but there's no train that leads across Moscow to Washington, so it can be difficult. The U.S. administration, the one who pays is always publicly calling and calling for them to come, so it's clear that a certain person here has a call from the US administration, it's the only thing he's going to be able to do through Moscow.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25481	Members of the 74th amendment were submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25482	Ladies and gentlemen, the SRS is making an amendment and considers it also necessary to tighten the fines in a criminal act of extortion. In fact, by adopting this proposal, the legislator is the legislator, and the legislator of the previous applicable law has provided for fines. The SRS considers it necessary to replace the word "three" in point 2 with "five". So, when she was three years old, she'd have sharpened the sequencing to five years. In point 4. "at least five" we propose to replace it with "at least 10 years in prison". This is because it's also a very criminal offense, a very important protected facility. Therefore, we of the SRS believe that these criminal acts that have been discussed need to be tightened and no longer allow citizens to have such adverse consequences. Madam President Djukic-Dejanovic, I must draw attention and point to the great failure of the promoter. Why is no lawyer involved in the drafting of this text of the law when it comes to criminal sanctions, and why was the law not involved in this part, especially when it comes to the Code of Criminal Procedure and the Criminal Code? Lawyership must have participations, seven and a half thousand lawyers in Serbia. In the final stage of the Criminal Procedure Code, the head of the team who had previously been, as far as I know, at the head of this law-making group was not involved.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25483	National MP Boris Aleksic submitted to the 75th amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25484	So, let's continue the story with Mr. Home. We, as I have already said, are asking representatives of the SRS to increase penalties for the most serious crimes. You must be wondering, Mr. Homen, why our country has no success in fighting the drug mafia. On the one hand, because those who should be chasing the perpetrators of these serious crimes are actually dealing drugs. On the other hand, because NATO has mastered the pact to Afghanistan, which is the largest drug producer, through the KIM held by Cypriot terrorists, Americans, as well as the EU, they supply the EU market and, of course, Serbia's market. However, you know that the drug mafia is an international organisation, as well as an international terrorism factor that no one can dispute. Institutions that should be fighting this drug mafia in Serbia cannot fight. I'll give you an example that you, by order of the United States of America in 2003, and after the assassination of Prime Minister Djindjic, have abolished the Security Information Agency's Second Authority, in fact, have abolished it, which deals with intelligence work, etc. the border or cross-border activity, therefore, collects data abroad, including on drug mafia, terrorists, etc. Dragan Filipovic presented this information in his book "The Anatomy of globalist odor". By the way, he was the third man in charge of state security resolution and chief of intelligence management of the State Security Restoire and senior official of Bija. So, he states that in 2003, US intelligence authorities were banned from doing intelligence work. She's practically a formal, but she doesn't do intelligence. Also, employees in that administration do not have the authority of an authorised official. So they can't bring anyone in for an information conversation. You have to change that. Also, I think it was done not to examine all the circumstances surrounding the murder of Prime Minister Djindjic and the possible organisation of the murder abroad.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25485	Member of the 82nd amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25486	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the legal theory in sanctions recognizes two components: repressive and preventive. For this reason, logically, we started to increase the length of the punishment. This amendment, which the SRS has submitted, refers to the authorized exporting of cultural goods abroad, so it is said – who exports or exports abroad cultural goods or goods enjoyed by previous protection, without prior approval of the competent authority, will be sentenced by imprisonment from six months to five years. We suggest three to eight years. In point 2. – if the work referred to in Article 1 has been carried out in relation to the cultural well-being of exceptional or great importance, the perpetrator will be punished by prison from one to eight years. We suggest five to eight years. Here's a proposal for the State Secretary of Justice to see that the ranges in these penalties are far more acceptable, far more practical, but here we had a special need to intervene in this article because recently there are goods from all over Serbia, and especially with KIM. If cultural good disappears, so do we as a people. Political parties may disappear, but Serbia and Serbian citizens must never disappear under any conditions.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25487	The 95th Amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25488	With this amendment, we are trying to further tighten the threatened prison sentence for the crime of unauthorized production, holding and placing on the market of intoxicating drugs. What used to be considered a crime of child's promise of weight and social danger, if life allows us to compare such a thing, also applies to this crime, the crime of production, the holding and placing on the market of intoxicating drugs. What most characterizes this crime is frequency, return execution and the social danger of this crime. The fact that this crime in most cases takes place in return makes it particularly dangerous and particularly difficult. I'm sure that 70% of the time in this crime is the rule that no matter how much the wolf feeds, she prepares for the forest. In translation – the return to the execution of these crimes is very common. Given the principles of individual and general prevention, and in line with the social dangers of this work that exist, we believe that criminal policy here needs to be significantly sharpened. That is why you should accept this amendment requiring more severe penalties for these crimes. You will indeed make your contribution to the fight against this great evil, against this devil who has entered our children, because, as Gete says, the poor people do not recognize the devil even when he catches them by the throat.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25489	The amendment was submitted by MP Vlatko Ratkovic to Article 96. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 97 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Nenad Konstantinovic submitted to Article 97 of the amendment. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee accepted the amendment. He became an integral part of the bill. Alexander Martinovic submitted to Article 98 of the amendment. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee accepted the amendment and it became an integral part of the bill. Member of the 126th Amendment was submitted by the MP, Verica Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25490	To make it clear what I have proposed to this amendment, I will read the Government's proposal and our amendment. The government says "Whoever, in order to endanger the constitutional order or security of Serbia, deprives the life of the President of the Republic, the President of the National Assembly, the Prime Minister, the President of the Constitutional Court, the President of the highest court in the Republic of Serbia or the republican public prosecutor, will be sentenced by a prison of at least 10 years or a prison of 30 to 40 years". This is really amazing, 10 years first, then 30 to 40 years. Here's how we think this should be formulated: "Who, in the intention of jeopardising the constitutional order or the security of Serbia, deprives the life of the President of the Republic, the President of the National Assembly, the People's Parliament, the Prime Minister, the Deputy Prime Minister, the Minister, the President of the Constitutional Court, the President of the highest court in the Republic of Serbia, the Republic's Public Prosecutor, or the Chief of Staff of the Serbian Army, will be sentenced from 30 to 40 years." This amendment is certainly in line with, I would say, the government's intention, because it introduced this as a new member, namely the murder of the highest state body representatives, and the highest state authorities are the ones contained in the amendment that I submitted on behalf of the SRS. It is more appropriate and serious, and it is a more serious intention to provide for this crime a sentence of 30 to 40 years, not, as the government says, between 10 years or a prison of 30 to 40 years. I really wish there was a representative of the government here to explain what they really...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25491	National MPs Milos Aligrudic, Milica Radovic, Miroslav Petkovic and Jovan Palalic submitted the 126th amendment together. Mr. Petkovic wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25492	Madam President, gentlemen of the Justice Department, this amendment of ours is in close contact with the amendment to article 35, which I remind you once again, has been submitted by the DSS and has been accepted by the government. We find it totally unacceptable to abandon members of the government in the draft law, meaning ministers and MPs, while endangering their security. Now, this Article 126 introduces a new act, the murder of a representative of the highest state authorities. I could understand that what was happening in the previous period, that a man would enter with bombs into the presidency, that a gun and bullets would enter the House of People's Parliament the other day, someone would take it very seriously, but believe me, we believe that the MPs and the ministers in the government are representatives of these state bodies. I don't see any reason why, by analogous to Article 35, you didn't accept this amendment to Article 126 and thus circled this whole story and introduce two new crimes. So I invite you to take another look at it, and I think that if you already had a good will with one member, you show it this way, to protect really the representatives who work in the highest state bodies, and certainly they are also the MPs and they are members of the government.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25493	Anyone else want a word? (Yes) The word of the Messenger of the people is John Palalic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25494	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is not disputed that this is a very important crime and it is a good thing that in this way it is incriminate to commit the crime of killing a representative of the highest state authorities. It's perfectly safe and the object of protection, and especially the social danger of this crime is so great that it was really necessary in this way to define it. However, we do not believe that the number of entities to be protected by this criminal act is fully covered. There really is no reason for that, so I took this opportunity to report to the MPs and ministers not to be the subject of protection. Why is it just the Prime Minister or the President of the National Assembly? There are so many political persuasions in Serbia, so many attempts to influence political will, that it is certain that certain people or individual groups can come under the influence of ministers who have real power both in government and in society, and MPs who can make key decisions and vote on laws that can produce important consequences, possibly for some social groups, or positive or negative ones. I'm simply asking the government's representatives to respect this. This whole law was done without serious public discussion. I want to repeat here and join my colleagues who have expressed their dissatisfaction that the lawyers have been left out of this public debate. That's not the first case. Lawyers are left out of public debate when it comes to the next law on the agenda - preventing money laundering and financing terrorism. We are now faced with the law offices seeking protection in the Constitutional Court, because you are slowly turning lawyers into spies in Serbia, Alexa Zunjic. The error of this law will very quickly be demonstrated, as will show the error of this law, which left out the law, which has both the knowledge and the expertise to adequately influence these solutions to be the best and best way to protect fundamental social values.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25495	Anyone else want a word? National MP Milica Radovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25496	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, right now I have received information from the esteemed Vice President, Mrs Comic that the government will accept this amendment. I thank you for this because there is a real legal logic between this amendment and the amendment that has already been accepted by Article 35. Since it is the last amendment that we have submitted, both on this bill and on a set of judicial laws at all, I will no longer report as an authorised representative, and my colleagues from the Parliament club will no longer appear. I must say that we have taken this set of judicial laws very seriously, with the sole desire that if there is a possibility we should try to change the texts of the proposed laws for the better. We have not endured many amendments, which you have had the opportunity to see, we have submitted only amendments to those members that we could not agree with. Some of them have been accepted, as has just been done with this amendment, most unfortunately found no understanding with the Justice Ministry's representatives. I thank Mr. Home and Mr. Cosic for attending today's debate, but who knows which way we express our dissatisfaction with the absence of the authorised minister and the inability to conduct an interactive debate in one reasoned way. I hope that such behaviour will not become a practice in the future and I do not thank you again.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25497	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) If not, Members of the People's Parliaments Judita Popovic and Nebojsa Rangelovic together submitted the 138th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Judita Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25498	The Honorable President, the Honorable Representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, we from the LDP are reluctant to make amendments in this regard to propose that we delete a certain member. However, in this case we were forced to do so, given that this Article 325. The law, which is laid down by this draft law on amendments and additions to the Criminal Code, simply remains in the scope of limiting certain human freedoms and rights. Why are we pointing that out? When reading in what sense is proposed to amend this legal member, it is seen that only resistance, when it comes to resistance, is referred to as non-violent resistance, is changed by the words "unrespect for legal decisions". In fact, one nonviolent resistance, one civil disobedience remains subject to certain criminal sanctions. I'm sorry, I'd like to point out that I'm going to use my MP's time. If we retain this member's solution to the previous bad legal solution, the non-violent resistance and civil disobedience are placed in the context of a criminal act, and we affirm conformism and self-censorship, in which case we are obviously acting against certain provisions of the Constitution and also certain international conventions that we have also accepted here and which are part of our legal order. I would just like to remind you that this member of the law, which stipulates that calling for non-compliance with legal decisions or the measure of the state authorities, is actually just talking about the authority of the decisions of the state, as well as the conduct of the state authorities, being in big trouble. Why should one particular criminal act be specifically called upon to respect legal decisions and to act as public authorities? If this crime remains in this formulation, which provides for the legislative proposal, in which case I think the Government itself has some problems, because, for example, the May 2009 Directives of the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, which require state secretaries, ministerial assistants and other state officials to refrain from acts and actions which are proposed to other bodies by measures and procedures contrary to the provisions of the Constitution, laws and state decisions. This means that these directives, which is, for example, a directive quoted by the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, the Justice Directive is exactly like this directive, they actually accept the reality that there is a certain call for non-compliance with national legal decisions, to disrespect the conduct of state authorities. What is it if no disrespect in the event that the Government draws conclusions, i.e. certain ministries, then the civil servants and conclusions are delivered to the courts, so that they are directly involved in the work of the courts, by proposing that certain proceedings be terminated for certain reasons, in order to suspend the proceedings of enforcement of strong legal decisions, or by proposing to terminate the proceedings of certain court proceedings, for some of which there are reasons for State reasons. So these procedures could be subject to sanctioning under this crime. We consider this a crime to be a relapse of the past and that it does not serve the legislator of the law, the urgency of which is the reform of the law in the domain of the judiciary, or criminal law, to leave this member in force and to be corrected eventually. So we suggest that you adopt our amendment, which is very simple. All we're asking is that we delete this member.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25499	Three minutes and 40 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. Anyone else want a word? If not, Parliamentarians Judita Popovic and Nebojsa Rangelovic together submitted to the 160th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. He has the word Judita Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25500	I can only rely on what I just said, and I could link this crime, which we think is completely unnecessary, that it is an anachronous and that the relapse of the past, to the criminal part of the abuse of the official position of Article 359. A criminal code, whose change is proposed by the promoter only in the sense that, apart from the official person, a mark and/or a responsible person. Our proposal was, therefore, the LDP and the two of us as proposing this amendment, to introduce counter-law as a element of criminal offence in this crime, because it is obvious that this illegality is missing so that this crime would indeed be in the right sense a criminal offence, rather than something in general in which we can classify various uses of our official position and achieve certain benefits. As is the crime of which we have proposed, therefore non-violent resistance, non-violent non-compliance with state decisions, because often decisions can be legal, and in this unfair, harmful or unfair way, so this crime, if strictly applied and observed, could cover many areas of economic and social life, business, the behaviour of entrepreneurs in certain situations when they operate and could literally undermine everything under the criminal act of abuse of official position, provided that someone is normally of particular interest and achieves that interest. This crime apparently has a certain political connotation, has a certain intention of retaining one of the pressures in criminal law on entrepreneurs and on all those involved in certain activities. Which would otherwise be the reason for leaving this anachronous crime in effect. Because what's this about? This crime, if analysed in such a publication as was given by the proposal, is contrary to Articles 58, 82, 83 and 84. The Constitution, it is contrary to the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights. It is contrary in fact to the interim trade agreement, because all these provisions of the Constitution, as well as these conventions to which I am calling, are in fact protecting human rights, protecting the market economy, protecting freedom of the market, so freedom of entrepreneurship. If a criminal offence, without an anti-law element, remains in force, then each acquisition shall benefit itself or another by the official, and note that the entrepreneur, the owner of a private enterprise that achieves a particular benefit, whether property, or not, because this member does not foresee it, commits a criminal act. Our amendment simply wanted to limit itself, to distinguish between taking advantage of its official position – and normally that if it is a company director to use his position in order to gain a certain benefit for himself as director of the company, and normally for the benefit of the company he works in – so, to make a difference, and that is only that element of illegality, because only if it works against the law, in which case it can be a criminal act. Otherwise, this member of the law is unconstitutional and is contrary to ratified international contracts, which again represent part of the country's legal order. When these two members are analysed, we can determine one thing, which is that we leave two extremely repressive, political and general crimes that cannot give positive results on the reform of the Criminal Code. However, when we compare this fact to the fact that we, for example, in the amendments and additions to the Code of Criminal Procedure simply do away with the existence of an associate witness in a very perfiduous way, in such a way that only on exceptional occasions is the witness being forgiven for the punishment. So, the punishment remains to be halved, thus sending a message that it is not worth it, that it is quite risky to approach this position as a fellow witness, thus sending a message that we do not know how this fight against organised crime, serious corruption, crimes committed by civil servants will be done. The question is whether this is really a reform in the area of criminal law, because you won't be able to reach that effect, you won't be able to achieve these goals that you're declaring by the proposals of these laws. You won't find anyone to testify to you in the criminal acts of corruption, which are pretty closed works with closed groups, especially if it's organized crime. Only someone from that circle, who is willing to risk, normally expecting certain positive effects, can help the state deal seriously with organised crime and corruption. Therefore, it does not take much to say that this country really does, but must through concrete proposals to amend and supplement existing legislation to do so, rather than to leave such relapses, such as these members in the Criminal Code, while literally binding their hands in the fight against corruption and organised crime. Therefore, we continue to suggest that in this criminal act, abuse of the official position, which is usually just the title of the crime, because when an entity is analysed, the elements of the criminal act are only talked about taking advantage of the official position, and it's not about abuse, so we're just introducing this contradiction that's very important, to make a difference between ordinary exploitation and the one that's against the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25501	Seven minutes have been used since the parliamentary group's time, so the time has been available to the LDP parliamentary group for three minutes and 40 seconds. Anyone else want a word? (No) If not, MP Vlatko Ratkovic has submitted to Article 160 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by MP Vlatko Ratkovic to Article 189. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have adopted this amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Since we have completed the examination of the bill in particular, the proposing representative would, under Article 144, have the right to give the final word. Since he is not present, I conclude a search of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 9th item of the agenda: – Proposal for an Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of PRAN OF MONEY AND FINANCE OF TERRORISM (specificities) You have received amendments submitted by the MPs: Jorgovanka Tabaković, Zoran Antić, Sreto Perić, Mirko Munjic, Sasa Maksimović, Slađan Mijaljević, Petar Jojić and Aleksandar Martinović. You have received reports from the Legislative Committee and the Finance Committee, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Just to remind the presidents, authorised representatives and members of the parliamentary groups of the time available, given that it is a search in particulars of the last point from, after the Assembly's decision, a joint principle search. The PUPS has a total time available, as well as a Group of Minority MPs. New Serbia's parliamentary group -- an authorised representative of the parliamentary group is available for seven minutes and 40 seconds, and a parliamentary group is available for nine minutes. The LDP parliamentary group – the authorised representative for four minutes and 30 seconds, the parliamentary group three minutes and 40 seconds. The SPS-JS parliamentary group has the total time available. The Progressive Group of Serbia has a total time of mandated representatives of the parliamentary group and five minutes at its disposal as the time of the parliamentary group. The DSS-Vojislav Kostunica parliamentary group has four minutes at its disposal as the time of the parliamentary group. The G17 Group has a total time. The SRS parliamentary group also used time for the authorised representative and time of the parliamentary group, and the ZES parliamentary group has time for the authorised representative and 88 minutes and 40 seconds for the parliamentary group. The first amendment was submitted by Jorganka Tabaković. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25502	In addressing this amendment, I will also use the time of the authorised representative, so you can treat it that way. Each of the parliamentary groups has assessed, in the context of a debate under this set of laws, that the time intended to address the authorised representative or the parliamentary group is dedicated to the subject it considers most important. Exactly the fact that we have left this time to amend and supplement the law on the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing speaks of how much we appreciate the importance of this law. Unlike the importance that we attach to this law, the government that proposed amendments and additions of this law to five members, one of which is when they enter into force of this amendment and supplementation, means, in four members, it has proposed amendments, estimated that it should be discussed in common time with six other laws in the field of justice. I am speaking to the citizens of Serbia, I am amazed at the government's courage to come out with this amendment and supplemental proposal at all and to allow us to talk about this law again and remind citizens of the bad legal solutions and of no effects of the government in the fight against money laundering and terrorist financing. I didn't need any inspiration to interest the public in this debate, because this morning's news, published on BBC, that in the US state of New Jersey, 40 high-ranking state and religious officials, including several rabbis, were arrested, were very interesting news, and the result of a ten-year action by the US state, which, by bringing witnesses to a group of councilmen, civil servants and rabbis, was able to obtain unquestionably evidence of money laundering and corruption in the state of New Jersey. A fellow witness is a construction contractor who bought construction permits for $10,000 and worked with rabbis who convinced people to sell the kidney for $10,000, and they reselled it for $150,000. What all money can be traced from is outrageous and how it can be legalized illegally acquired, but what I want to make the public interested in this case is -- in many ways we look up to America and we need to look at good examples from the practice of justice and money laundering, on everything independent of what side of the globes exist, some people live on. I would like this case to be concerned by all those who engage in money laundering, corruption and abuse, believing that there are perfect robberies, and I want to assure them that, although this country has a bad law, even though it does not apply it, there is no perfect robbery and that responsibility for destroying the social system, in which classes are created and distributed precisely in corruption, we must all take over and give our unquestionable contribution in the fight against money laundering. How did the state give it to us? She proposed amending and supplementing the Law, which established the obligation of those who are in the chain of those through whom the money is laundered, which is Article 1, to carry out further checks on the documents submitted and to further confirm the information on the party which, in doubt, is involved in money laundering. In a rejection of my amendment, where I ask that all those who are bonds, who need to carry out additional checks and data and further confirmation of such parties, the government does not accept the amendment for the reason that the draft law contains a wider circle of taxpayers. Can you believe the government was able to give such an explanation? This proposal deletes the obligation of the obligor to carry out additional data checks, which was the solution in the law we passed in March. To my amendment to the fact that this obligation should remain and that the circle of taxpayers should even be extended to all those involved in financial affairs, the government says it is even wider coverage of those involved. In fact, the law is proposed to introduce legal penalties that have been completely omitted. Although many have been concerned with the praise of the law and its expected contribution, none of these top analysts and those professional praisers of such legal proposals have noticed that the punishment for an authorized person in an organ that does not prevent money laundering and the responsible person has not even been provided for. What should concern all of us, is that according to data from international organisations dealing with money laundering, there is an unequivocal fact that between two and five percent, you can't say with absolute certainty exactly what the figure is, of the total value created, in flows that we can call money laundering. However, we even have the definition of money laundering by law that we have passed completely wrongly. Money laundering is always about illegally obtained cash that puts banks into legal flows. And, most often, so much cash in legal flows is invested, not even in profitable branches, it's not as important to them to profit, as important to legalize money acquired in an illegal way. As always, we are specific, so in our society the most common case is that money is invested in profitable branches, where at least 50% of the profits are expected on the invested dinar. Every city knows the names of people who deal with construction affairs, rarely who dares to call them the construction mob, who are really very often illegally acquired money from various criminal transactions as cash is being put into legal channels, paying workers, black workers, not paying for insurance, bribed for obtaining building permits, even often forging landowners on whose buildings they are building, to then legalize income from the sale of buildings built in an illegally acquired way, or illegally acquired money. What I'm saying is absolutely not my credit, my analysis. It's something every citizen in every city where a crane works on a building. Not all buildings are so built, but criminally acquired money is mostly invested in this kind of work and in the hotel industry, which is world practice, to expect maximum profits in such areas. When it's gone, it's coming out, and they don't care that such behavior is causing a disturbance in interest rates, monetary policies, tax policies and at all the economic growth of a country. They don't care. They have their own interests, but this country would have to worry about that. Since 2003, when we first faced what was money laundering and "of-shor companies", and when we took the names of Nemanja Kolesar, Janjusevic, financing G17, we began to use this term by state officials, who allegedly had a sincere desire to hold on to these elections, until today we only face the example of closing for double invoices, which was carried out by Mr. Kostic's timely financial director when he started production in the purchased sugar shop for three euros, and the public had the opportunity to see how the old and raved equipment had increased the value of invoices, which was actually made the classic way of money laundering. Is whoever is convicted, who is responsible for it, there's no need for me to bring it out? These are the results of investigations carried out through the punishment until today we don't have any. So the punishment if it's not certain and it's not applied doesn't make any sense. We have even defined by law, and this is an inappropriate practice, that the export of cash of 15,000 euros, which is maximum, can be interpreted as discretionary by free will. In a law adopted in March, the minister has the right to allow more than 15,000 euros in cash to be exported to certain holders of Item 1, which defines that height. Is it a question of one man and someone, and they have a discretionary right to decide, not an arrow for corruption, is that not exactly an invitation to corruption? It is one of the ways in which we make laws, where we raise discretionary rights to the level of corrupting demands, where we promote the goal of building a class society where wealth is redistributed in an insufferably unfair way, in which the state helps with its legal regulations. Instead of those who deal with financial transactions, and most often these are banks, and now through the infused financial industry, voluntary pension funds, brokerage houses, voluntary insurance, insurance companies, you and by changing this law into four members are now eliminating the obligation to deliver specific data and verify anything that might indicate corruption. Is this how a country fights money laundering and corruption, let citizens evaluate.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25503	The time at the disposal of the authorised representative shall be 6 minutes and 15 seconds. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Antic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has an MP, Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25504	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as Mrs. Jorvanka Tabakovic said, about SNS Tomislav Nikolic this law and this area is of paramount importance. We have therefore responded to the proposed amendments and amendments to the law. In particular, in Article 2, we have the desire of the Directorate to prevent money laundering from obtaining official badges with an identification number, along with those official IDs. We find this desire to prevent money laundering unnecessary, that there is no need for such badges. We believe that the Department of Money Laundering should deal with the essence, not the form. It seems to us that, first of all, we need to get information on her work so far. True, she has an obligation to deliver these reports to the government, but in public, among us MPs, very little is known about the area itself. The fact is that this institution monitors money flows and that in the time of the transition in which our society is located, there is a lot of illegality and a lot of corruption and crime. It is quite inappropriate that the results of this administration are not significantly better and that the public is not informed about it, and that the administration is dealing with those tasks for which it was established, rather than dealing with what official IDs will look like, that the Government expects it to arrange and receive official badges. I think the essence of the law itself is different and that the expectations of both MPs and the public are different from the Directorate for the Prevention of Money Laundering.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25505	Anyone else want a word? If not, MP Sreto Peric has submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has an MP, Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25506	The law on the prevention of money laundering and the financing of terrorism, as well as changes and additions to the law, should basically be much more rigorous, as this poses a major threat to the state of Serbia. I intervened on Article 53 of the basic law by amendment to Article 2, where it is predicted that an official working at the Directorate for the Prevention of Money Laundering, in addition to the ID, will have an official badge with an identification number. Basically, it's not something to intervene on. There is an attitude of the 2nd member, where it is said that the form of official ID and appearance of the official badge is prescribed by the minister. In principle, the SRS argues that this is transferred on behalf of the minister to the authority of the state authority. The constitution, the Law on State Administration, the Law on the Ministry, I already pointed out yesterday, does not recognise the minister as a state body, because he is not, but the ministry is a state body. It should therefore be in the ministry's jurisdiction. As far as we're concerned, the Ministers are best shown yesterday's and today's session, which discusses details of very important laws, laws that regulate criminal issues, so here we are, preventing money laundering and financing terrorism, and the minister is gone. We believe that this amendment should be accepted because it is the principled attitude of the SRS towards this problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25507	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has an MP Mirko Munjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25508	The amendment requires that a legal minimum of 20,000 be raised to 100,000. If we look at the proposed range between the legal minimum and the maximum, we'll see that he's one to 10. The question arises whether this range of penalties, and in particular the amount of the legal minimum, will prevent the potential perpetrators from being affected. You predicted 20 grand as a legal minimum. Which means a fine of 20,000 dinars for those who will obviously knowingly and deliberately want to do incriminating actions for which, as a legal minimum, is foreseen. We predicted that this range would be from 100,000 to 200,000, aware that even the amount of the legal minimum of 100,000 would not be adequate, or 100%, to do these works. We find the amount to be where and where more appropriate. But prevention doesn't matter to you. Protecting the damaged too. This is reflected in many cases in the adoption of certain laws in the field of justice, and this was an opportunity for us to see. For example, you have provided in one law that a perpetrator of a crime may be left part of the property that has acquired a criminal offence unless he has the means to support himself. Here's the question of who you're actually protecting here, whether the perpetrator of a crime or damaged. Aware of the fact that it proves to you, or to show that some amendment should be accepted, is indeed what is said in Latin to try diabolical or diabolical proof. That's what we're aware of.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25509	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Sladjan Mijaljevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has an MP, Mijaljević.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25510	I have submitted an amendment to replace Article 3 of Section 2 of the words "from 20,000 to 200,000" with the words "from 100,000 to 200,000". In view of the prescribed amount of fines for legal persons in Article 88(1) of the Law, we believe that adequate punishment for a responsible person in a legal person is between 100,000 and 200,000 dinars. So, if it has already been found that someone has committed a crime of money laundering in order to financially assist terrorist actions, and the vast majority of terrorist actions are aimed at property and human lives, adequate punishment is also needed. Imagine an example that someone has earned a million euros through washing a certain amount of money, thus allowing a terrorist act that causes damages of several tens and hundreds of millions of euros and several tenths and hundreds of human victims, will be punished with 20,000 dinars of up to 200,000. Does it not seem to you that there is a very large proportion between the damage done and the punishment done, and so much of our mixed power rises to stand in line against terrorism fighters, especially because of the situation in our environment and in our southern province, here lately and in southern Serbia. However, it seems to me that they are not doing their best in the environment that surrounds us, so that we are proposing with this amendment and providing help to sharpen the punishment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25511	Anybody else answer for a word? If not, MP Sasa Maksimovic has submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25512	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Chairman, I believe that we can all agree on the fact that criminal policy in Serbia is ineffective and inadequate. The amendment I submitted on behalf of the SNS is in connection with the legal person's responsibilities, which envisions an increase in fines from 30,000 to 300,000 in comparison with the government's proposal from 20,000 to 200,000. This amendment, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, was a kind of experiment that was meant to check the government's readiness and honesty regarding criminal policy. In what way? Every amendment I've filed in this set of judicial laws, and related to criminal policy, I've received an answer that is contrary to the previous argument that the government has given me. So, in the light of this amendment, the Government does not accept the amendment because the law stipulates that a responsible person may be subject to a fine of up to 200,000, which means that the law does not allow a higher sentence. When I proposed a different punishment, or something milder, to you on the draft law on amendments and additions to the Criminal Code, the answer I received was that the government's intensity is to tighten the sentence. First of all, the first question would be does the government even know what its intensities are? If one law provides for an increase, one does not allow an increase, then it is called on that the intensity is to increase the sentence, the other, no, we will not increase the sentence. Do you even think that criminal policy cannot be in the post of sanction prevention, nor can it be effective in combating various forms of crime? If so, why did you increase your sentence in amendments to the Criminal Code? Now I'd like to draw a parallel with the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Public Information Act. In part, I hope to help you with what your intensities are, since it seems to me that you're not quite there yet, or at least within the framework of the government and the ministries, you haven't agreed between yourselves. So, here's a clean parallel, changing the law on the prevention of money laundering predicts fines from 20,000 to 200,000 for a responsible person in a legal person, from 500,000 to 3,000,000 for a legal person, while in the Law on Public Information, the fines range from 200,000 to 200,000 for the editor-in-chief, i.e. 1,000 million to 20,000,000 million million for a legal person plus some protection measures to carry out the work. This means, in practice, that if someone calls Minister Mladjan Dinkic, which seems to me to have been the intention of why the Law on Public Information was amended, he will be punished by 20,000,000, and if someone is involved in money laundering and terrorist financing will be fined by 2,000. Now, Serbia's citizens should first of all ask themselves a question -- what is the policy of this government and what are the priorities of this government that should represent them? Is this a fight against money laundering and terrorist financing or the protection of characters and acts of almighty Minister of General Practice Mladjan Dinkic?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25513	One minute has been used from the time available for the Progressive Group of Serbia, so you now have four minutes. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by Parliament of the People, Mr. Jorgovanka Tabaković. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25514	Will you just tell me how much time I have? So four of the group and authorized? How much do I have in total?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25515	Four minutes is available to the parliamentary group and available to you, as an authorised representative of the parliamentary group, eight minutes and 15 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25516	The reason why this law entered the procedure of amendments and the addition is exactly criminal policy. As my colleague Sasa Maksimovic said, it first comes to the eye that at the same time, it is on the agenda to consider the Public Information Act which, rightly, caused the most controversy right in the part of the criminal policy. Now the question is -- the ratio of action and punishment for those acts? Is it possible that we as a society are more vulnerable to irresponsible information, and there are many examples of irresponsible information and publication of various texts, or are we as a society more vulnerable to corruption and money laundering? I think that the question in any survey will be unequivocally defined by all citizens as being more at risk of money laundering, or corruption. When we propose, which is the proposal of my colleague Maksimovic and my proposal - that the punishment for the responsible person and the authorised person, which was completely omitted in the legislative proposal, or the law adopted in March, be set at the height of the legal maximum of up to 200,000 dinars, you answer that it is too high a penalty for such a type of act. I do wonder if we live in the same country and whether your system of legislation and state as a state has sufficient specifics in your understanding of our life, the future and the need to last. For example, you, for one possible, truly theoretically possible case -- that on some television, a German citizen, Adolf Hitler, has been declared a war criminal, it is announced by television, will it, any one, be punished for a commercial offense, by those sentences of three to seven increased by a legal maximum, and by the Law of Business Crimes and Infractions, and yet knowing that Adolf Hitler is never and nowhere legally convicted? Or, we all live in cities that are equipped with cable television, most of us. Every night, on BBC, CCN, or all the TVs, you'll hear the term Bin Laden terrorists, that's what they all call it. Who will be responsible for the crime, who is being measured by the Dragon Penalty of the Public Information Act, who will be at the polls at the end of this work, for publishing such a punishable act of terrorism and calling the perpetrator a terrorist, when we know that he is not legally convicted anywhere? I am not satisfied that Mr. Homen has said that they are being fenced against the legal penalties proposed by the Ministry of Culture through the Public Information Act. You can't build yourself up, because you're part of the team, so you're not the government of any other republic, or the Ministry of any other republic, you're the government as a collective body. It's not enough that Mr. Homen said he wasn't behind those dragon sentences. Come on, tell us here, in response to this amendment -- are you standing as the competent ministry behind these low-level penalties for money laundering, which encourage corruption and destroy this society, destroying all the values that we need to teach children who grow up under these circumstances? I really cannot accept that this is how the government acts, although it has set itself the widest possible freedom even in that - that state authorities and organisations, although they have an eight-day deadline in the Law against Money Laundering and Combating Terrorism, do not have at all a certain sanction if they do not. This law has been proposed by the Ministry of Finance in its own time. It does not relieve you of the responsibility for the failure that the law has imposed. Whether it was an amendment response or not doesn't matter at all. We have a law in which, a colleague said, lawyers should be denunciators, informers, spies and all other activities – and accounting organisations, and all financial institutions should report, and tourist organisations, but therefore the state body, including the agency, have only a moral obligation. So no state authority has to do that within eight days, because there's no punishment. If you give them a sentence, will it be like this -- up to 100,000 dinars, even half of that legal minimum? The fact that you've made a wide circle of taxpayers out of this law doesn't comfort us at all, because you don't have results. It cannot be a valid environment for citizens at all, if we all know that banks and the real estate market, or organisations in that area, are key to controlling flows and tracking money. And it's also certain that the management that you have to deal with these affairs is burdened with such a lot of data and information can be very justified to understand in principle -- we give you a lot of data so you can't deal with the most important ones. As you have established such a wide spectrum of DRIs - companies, public, state, budget, political parties, donations, NBs, all who operate through public funds, and for which you have not given her any human resources, for which there are no material opportunities, so that every moment these people, who have to do this kind of responsible work, can jump to a threat - by replacing them, because they have failed to fulfil the obligations that you have imposed on them by legal regulations. And it's too transparent this way of formulating obligations, seen in terms of the insincere desire of the government to deal with -- money laundering and corruption at all. I really think that this government should mean an observation expressed in this way and with these arguments, because although people don't engage much in the details of this law, for them what is called the concrete result in this struggle is the clearest image of the intentions, the quality of the legislation that the government is putting forward and the definitions of what is most significant to this government. It is not a political conclusion at all if I say that the fight against corruption is one of the floscules, from hollow phrases that should have a populist goal of gaining voters. They cannot be deceived by citizens, i.e. a large number of people in a long series of years, by talking about how we will fight this by adopting such legal regulations. What concerns people in particular is that institutions that can really fight these phenomena do not have the means, do not have the right law. How will they punish any of the authorities or agencies that need to deliver the information? They are powerless, their request will be deafened. That it is not an accident and it is not a conspiracy, but a system that does not control financial flows, it best says how much of this government's resources are being allocated to the PIO Fund, touching it more and more, because taxes, contributions, contributions, contributions to pension insurance are not being paid in the way the law provides. At the time of the Social Accounting Service, while the salary was paid at the Payment Service, or the Office for Accounting and Payment, those who are similar generations and older than me remember that the salary could not be paid without payment and contributions being paid at the same time. Today, when payment is carried out as a fantastic innovation through banks, we have a situation where this government, in one part because of the demands of a coalition partner, brings pensions to a level that is not suitable for the power of the economy, but in one large part because it avoids payment of contributions, now almost 2/3 of the total funds needed to the PIO Fund must be provided from the budget, because they do not flow through salaries or contributions to the PIO Fund. It's a specific vision of insufficient control and close your eyes to the situation we're in. If we didn't have such a situation, if we didn't allow the payment of salaries without contributions and to regulate it by law, we wouldn't have strikers today who are looking for a job together, we wouldn't have at this session the borrowing of the state from commercial banks, which are competing with businesses and citizens who should be in debt, not the state, under extremely unfavourable circumstances, under very expensive conditions and with the deadlines of repayment that are burden on the hunches to all those who have yet to work and earn. I don't want to sound panicky, but the least I can say is the most serious concern of all of us, and above all, for those of you who are responsible, there must be side-by-side concerns about the budget in which the costs are at the same level, and the revenues are getting smaller and smaller. The number of employees or to call them taxpayers, you only understand that dictionary, is getting smaller and smaller. Moving the age limit for us women until retirement can't solve the problem much, because the number of children up to five years is getting smaller, the number of older than 65 is growing, and the number of women without children, or women who don't make a family and don't give birth to children, is increasing. What do you think you're building this country on and making progress as a country, and expect us to experience a future, if by any law you show that your future is the next election? It is for you the only long-term future, victory in the next election, some parole and an immediate pretense of how to give up the promise, it was called the restitution, action, Fiat, the opening of 500,000 jobs, the fight against corruption, justice, etc. Please, every law you deliver here must have the minimum seriousness this moment and these citizens require. In that sense, do not reduce the penalty for what is the cancer wound of our society, which is corruption carried out by means of money laundering.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25517	National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 4th amendment. Here you go, Mr. Jojic. He's not here. The amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. He's not here either. Since we have completed a search of the bill in particular, I conclude the review of the bill's proposal in particular. Thank you, Mr. Cosic and Home. After we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle... If everyone agrees, Mr. Jojic was in a hurry, so I'd give him my word. Can I give Mr. Jojic a word? I would ask that we have an understanding for Mr. Jojic, he has come in really fast. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25518	Thank you, Madam President. As my colleagues pointed out, it is necessary to tighten these fines monetaryally when it comes to terrorism and its financing. Sources of terrorist financing are known in many countries, and the same is known to happen, and to finance, and to launder money in the Republic of Serbia. We believe it is necessary to prescribe in law instead of 10,000 to 100,000 that it should be 50,000 to 200,000. This would be one of the most just and valid provisions and norms, and practice will show whether or not this will be effective and whether penalties will have to be tightened further or not.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25519	I conclude the review of the bill's proposal in particular, and since we have carried out a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, in particular and in general. We move to the 10th point of the agenda: – PROPOSITION OF THE LAW OF THE SISTEMA EDUCATION AND VASPITANJA (individuals) You have received amendments submitted at the proposal of the Law by the MPs: Zoran Šami, Donka Banović, Aleksandar Pejčić, Milica Vojić-Marković, Slobodan Samaržić, Željko Tomić, Žarko Korać, Nebojša Randelović, Nenad Prokić, Nikola Savić, Radica Jocić, Goran Mihajlović, Milovan Radovanović, Sladjan Mijavić, Radija Dimitrijić, Mićo Rogović, Olena Papović, Žalna Žalno Žaljić, Žalno Žaljanović, Žaljan Žaljanović, Mirožar Žalić, Mirožić, Mira Žažan Marković, Mir Mark Marković, Moma Marković, Zoran Anković, Zoran Antić, Jurvan Ant, Žar Antić, Jurvanka Tab, Jovan Tabović, Žabović, Žar, Žažović, Radić, Radić, Radić, Radjamić, Radić, Radić, Radić, Radić, Radić, Ža Ža Žažar Žažić, Ža Žažak, Ža Žažić, Žažić, Žažak, Žaž. You have received a report from the Legislative Committee and the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. National MP Dragoljub Micunovic, in writing, withdrew amendments he submitted to Article 13 and Article 54. It's a bill of law. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Before that, let me just inform you who the representatives are by individual parliamentary groups in this debate: MP Miletic Mihajlović for SPS-JS, MP Nikola Krpic for the PUPS parliamentary group, MP Zoran Shami for DSS-Vojislav Kostunica, MP for Snezana Stojanović-Plasic for the G17 Plus MP Dragoljub Micunović for the MEP Group ZES, MP Zlata Djeric for the Parliament group Nova Serbia, MP Zarko Korać for the LDP group, MP for the parliamentary group Veroljub Arsic for the parliamentary group Advanced Serbia, MP Nikola Savic for the SRS group and the National MP for the Esad Judžević for the minority group. The First Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Shami, Donka Banovic, Aleksandar Pejcic and Milica Vojic-Markovic. Mrs. Donka Banovic wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25520	The DSS shall propose to delete the position of Article 1(2). I was talking when we talked about this law in principle a few days ago that this attitude in this law shouldn't exist because it's something that's meant to be. This view reads: “The termins expressed in this law in grammatical male origin mean the natural male and female species of the persons to which they apply. ” Please, this is meant because there are a large number of laws that apply and that do not contain this attitude. Of course, it is understood that these laws apply to both natural male and natural female. That's why I don't think this should stand in this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25521	Members of the 2nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zarko Korac, Nebojsa Rangelovic and Nenad Prokic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of Parliament Zoran Shami, Donka Banovic, Slobodan Samardzic and Aleksandar Pejcic submitted together to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Mr. Samardzic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25522	The DSS has submitted an amendment to Article 2(2) of this Act. First of all, the view reads: “Employment and education is achieved with respect to the general principles of education and education, by achieving the objectives and standards of education and education.” We wanted this second part of this attitude to be more concrete and that is where the specificisation of the goals is thought of, and we also said: "by achieving national and universal goals and standards of education and education". We believe that in this place such a goal must be present. The national goals of education and education are very important, they are standards, traditional, they were part of previous education systems, and we think that in this place it absolutely stands to make one supplement like this. This amendment, unfortunately, has been rejected by the government and the justification says this is a standard of general character, and principles, objectives and standards are regulated by members three to five, which means that the matter is mentioned in some later members. However, if Articles 3 to 5 are viewed, there is no clear provision anywhere on the emphasising of national goals and universal goals of education, so this reasoning does not actually play any important role. Articles 3 to 5 hardly mention any national interest and national objective, and if mentioned in Article 3. it is in the context of some other objectives and interests, so it is in fact lost as specific and as a goal and interest that should be pointed out already in this Article 2. We think it's a shame the government refused this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25523	Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by Ambassador Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, Mr. Saviæ.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25524	Ladies and gentlemen, I have submitted an amendment to Article 3. The proposal for a law on the basics of education and education systems, in such a way as to delete the last word “as on other grounds” in the first position in point 1). Namely, I'll say why I did it. This member, that is, this attitude of this member of the law, speaks of the fact that, of course, children should not be discriminated against and that they all have the same right to education. Children should not be discriminated against on the basis of gender, social culture, cultural, ethnic, religious or other belongings, place of residence, place of residence, material and health conditions, difficulties and disturbances in development and disability, etc. I simply believe that this attitude literally covers everything on which discrimination can be made, and this, on other grounds, is simply unnecessary, because this, on other grounds, can be interpreted as being related to sexual orientation, which would mean that in school it is allowed to persons or students, or persons who perform teaching, to freely express their sexual orientation. We, however, have recently had the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination, but that is precisely why I think this latter one, on other grounds, should be deleted from this article of the law, because it is excessive and can lead to abuse because, by predicating everything here, it is literally said what should be said about this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25525	The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Shami, Donka Banovic, Slobodan Samardzic and Aleksandar Pejcic. Mr. Samardzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25526	Article 3 of this Law is very important because it concerns the general principles of the education and education system. But as important as it is, in this case, it's both intense and in that intensity it's watered down. A lot of these principles are listed, and they are simply lost, most important and primary compared to some of the less important and secondary ones. This article is almost impossible to amend effectively, except by requiring at least two-thirds of these principles to be erased or summed up in some general principles. We did not want to do this because the practice of this assembly says that those amendments that ask to be deleted are not going well in the draft law. So we thought we'd actually improve this member a little bit, and that's by pointing out one important thing, one important principle that might come into someone's eyes. So, in point 3 of this article, when it lists what the education and education system has to provide, and then again you have very extensive lists of what it must provide, there is, among other things, "dedication", and then it goes "to the remaining moral values, values of justice, truth and solidarity" etc., it is extensively listed, but after the word "dedication" we have suggested that it be "dedication to national goals and values". Simply, if the education system is committed to something, it is most important to devote itself to national goals and values. That's what we suggested to get in. However, as in the previous case, the government had no understanding of this attitude, moreover its reasoning at this point and in this case it is very strange again. It says – the amendment should not be accepted because the proposed solution includes both national objectives and values. This Article 3 does not cover national objectives and values explicitly. They are mentioned in Article 4 in another context, but not as goals and values, but as some general principles and, therefore, we think that it is simply left out and that at least so much can be done that in this part of the principles this important moment is inserted into.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25527	The 4th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Jon Magda, Dragomir Cimeša and Miodrag Stoilovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Committee on Education has submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Mr. Slobodan Samardzic, you are probably due to this amendment of yours. I'll read it now. Members of the 4th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Shami and Slobodan Samardzic. Mr. Samardzic wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25528	So it's a Article 4 that speaks about the goals of education and education. Our wish and intention was to include or insert a special point 3) after 1) and 2) the point, that instead of the current point 3) stands the second point that we have proposed and which was to read - the care and development of patriotism, as well as the historical, cultural and social values of Serbia. That's what we talked about in the principle debate. It's a task of both education and education. There are, of course, specific tasks and objectives of the educational and educational system, but all of them must actually go through this goal, as we have formulated, the care of patriotism and national values. It is very strange that the legislator did not mention this important word, first of all, taking into account perhaps, if not some domestic reasons and some internal causes, what countries normally do in the environment and especially the Member States of the European Union. Regardless of the various orientations towards regional co-operation, towards European integration, to the universal values that stand and must be respected, each country must move away from itself. It's something that's being neglected by us. We have one general view that it is good to satisfy regional interests, it is good to satisfy European interests, universal values, etc., and if national interests are satisfied, so much better. There's no government against it, but it doesn't put it first. We feel it is good that the law has one such principle, and that is why we wanted to include it in these objectives under point 3. This is what we discussed in the context of the principle debate, but obviously there was no hearing about it because this value obviously does not stand high on the scale of the government's values, but it either implies itself or is involved in other broader concepts, such as multiculturalism, co-operation, non-discrimination, etc. This is a traditional, classic value that should not be annulled. It just needs to be upgraded to some new, modern, and if you want to be post-modern, but you can't do what the government did through this law. That is why we insisted that something like that be explicitly stated at point 3.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25529	Members of the 4th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zarko Korac, Nenad Prokic and Nebojsa Rangelovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojić-Marković and Zeljko Tomic. Mrs. Vojic-Markovic wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25530	Madam President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in this Article 4, which concerns the objectives of education and education, I have responded to two things: point 13) and point 14). I will try to explain point 13 - developing the capacity for the role of a responsible citizen, for living in a democratically regulated and human society based on respect for human and civil rights, the right to diversity and to care for others, as well as the basic values of justice, truth, freedom, honesty and personal responsibilities. The DSS believes that you are a value such as patriotism, which Professor Samardzic spoke of, and I don't think you should add much, if there's anything to add at all, in fact somehow ignored it by considering some general value that is meant. I think in one national law, such as this law on education and education, patriotism must be mentioned, above all among these basic values. That basic value is mentioned, gentlemen, in all the laws I've looked at, and I've looked at six national laws, including French, British and others. There's patriotism all over the place. It's not a forbidden word there. Point 14 reads: the formation of views, beliefs and systems of value, the development of personal and national identity and multiculturalism, respect and respect for their language and Serbian language, traditions and cultures of the Serb people, national minorities and ethnic communities, other peoples, respect and preserve national and world cultural heritage. I think you've accidentally done a permutation here. You wrote the first care of your language and Serbian. We think it would be the other way around, if the Serbian language first went, because it is the official language in Serbia, and your own language, and then, by respecting our logic, you wrote the following - respect for the tradition and culture of the Serbian people, national minorities and ethnic communities. It would be more logical if you changed the order, so we intervened.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25531	Donka Banovic and Aleksandar Pejcic submitted together to the 4th amendment. Mrs. Donka Banovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25532	This amendment also refers to Article 4, where the objectives of education and education are listed. In particular, the amendment refers to point 15) and I suggest that the two elements of this point change. Among other things, the objectives of education and education are: development and respect for racial, national, cultural, language, religious, gender, gender and adult equality, tolerance, non-discrimination and respect for diversity. Once again when we discussed this law in principle, I pointed to a confusion that could arise, where you mention gender equality and gender equality. Let's just say, I know the difference, but I'm a politician who's been dealing with certain political issues for years. However, I think this can cause confusion in schools, or institutions. I urge the minister to explain to us, when he speaks to the Assembly, that he understands the difference between gender and gender equality. It's an intervention. In the same amendment, I again underline that the word "non-discrimination" as a noun does not exist in Serbian. I think the proposer could have left out this word that doesn't exist, because even if that word was missing, it would have been quite clear because it's said: adult equality, tolerance and respect for diversity, it's the same thing. Tolerance means no discrimination. Respect for diversity is also a lack of discrimination. I think the promoter could have accepted this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25533	The Committee for Education has tabled an amendment to Article 5(7). Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 5th amendment, with correction, was jointly submitted by MPs Zarko Korac, Nebojsa Rangelovic and Nenad Prokic. The Legislative Committee rejected him as an untimely one, and he cannot be the subject of debate. I'm reporting for word. You have answered the word, but he is not the subject of debate. The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banovic and Aleksandar Pejcic. Donka Banovic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25534	Article 5 speaks of general outcomes and standards of education and education. There is a point 2) in these general outcomes, which says - learn how to learn and use your mind. Of course, this applies to children, students, and adults. Does this mean that so far teachers in preschool, both in primary education and education and in high schools have taught students, children and adults how to use someone else's mind? I understand what the promoter was trying to say here. Perhaps the promoter disagrees that I suggest that this "use your mind" be replaced by the words "use your intellectual abilities". That's as close as I could tell what they wanted to say under this. If this member stays as defined, he is at least unusual, not to use any other word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25535	Is there anything else he wants to say about this amendment? No, I don't. ) Before we move on to the debate in detail on the next amendment, two notices. First of RTS Secretary General Stanislav Veljkovic, directed to Mr Veljak Odalovic, the secretary of the Serbian Parliament, informing him, and all of us, on Friday 24.7.2009, at 15.00 hours, and due to previously assumed programme obligations to transfer Europe to athletics, which is held in Novi Sad, we will not be able to follow the National Assembly's meeting in direct transmission and at the Second Programme of RTS, but rather in delayed transmission. On the basis of Article 85, Section 5, I am informing the National Assembly that today the break will be at 15.00 hours, by 16.00 hours, and that we will be working even after 1800 hours, by discussing the point that we are having at the moment. The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Shami and Milica Vojic-Markovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojić-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25536	Madam President, I must remind the public and citizens of Serbia that this law does not seem to matter at all to the citizens of Serbia and Serbia. I remind you, last Saturday, and the ministry gentlemen remember that, when we did this law, we also had some funny reason why this transfer was delayed for the night. Today, when we discuss in particular and if the public of Serbia could be familiar with what we are discussing today, we have again a very important event, athletics are more important than education and education in Serbia. Thank you for showing clearly how important this education is to you. The DSS is also important to this law and that's why we're here today, and tomorrow we'll be here and we'll discuss it in detail. Why have we submitted this amendment? In Article 5 relating to general outcomes and standards of education and education in point 5, you say - they manage themselves and their activities responsibly and efficiently. I don't think it's necessary for them to stay here, because if they're managing their activities, that means they're managing themselves. Whoever's out there can't control his activities. That's logic. In point 10, you say - they run and they accept changes, they take responsibility and they have a entrepreneurial approach and a clear orientation towards achieving goals and achieving success. So we have nothing against this "to have a entrepreneurial approach", but we think that here we should stand instead of this "have" -- "cities" entrepreneurial approach, because having a permanent state, and building is something that involves the effects of education and education.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25537	National MP Radica Jocic wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25538	On the proposal for a law on the basis of the education and education system, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment requesting that Article 5(6) be deleted. [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25539	People's MPs, we are currently in the debate on the amendment to Article 5, which was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Shami and Milica Vojic-Markovic, so if you want to continue speaking, it will be time for the parliamentary group. Your amendment is next in line. Is anyone else answering for a word by amendment submitted by MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic and Zoran Shami? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by Radica Jocic. The word has a folk letter, Radica Jocic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25540	On the proposal of this law, on behalf of the MP of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment requesting that paragraph 6 be deleted. Item 6 reads: "General standards of achievement are established on the basis of general outcomes of education and education at levels, cycles and types of education and education, i.e. educational profiles". I would just like to remind myself that as a significant reason for the adoption of this law, among other things, it is stated: these are empirical indicators of the quality and efficiency of education in the Republic of Serbia which are mildly worrying, and here I will mention only two related to this member. The first results of student achievements show that children in the Republic of Serbia have lower levels of achievements from peers from other European countries, especially with regard to the use of acquired knowledge in new situations, which is a serious indicator of the lack of functionality of our education. The second - educational system is not in line with the needs of the economy, and this is also indicative; the achievement of software content does not provide sufficient competitiveness for the finished students on the labour market. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, what does this mean? While the government and the ministry are throwing themselves away with bombic expressions, such as expression of achievements, our schools end up students who, despite certain diplomas, are not able to apply knowledge in any production and that even when they are employed, they go worse than those who have not completed a specific vocational school.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25541	The word is from MP Dragoljub Micunovic, the authorised representative of the ZES parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25542	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is the only strategic law that is above all other laws, because no other law goes so far into the future as a law on education. That means we're preparing people who will continue to develop this country. It's turned to the future to the end. Of course, investments in education do not return quickly, but they are so important that all the serious countries that want to keep their place on the scale of developed countries are now investing the most in education. You've seen that in the U.S. a hundred billion dollars has now been invested, that some big businessmen, like Bill Gates, are investing billions, too, realizing that without good education and new personnel, they won't be able to track the technological revolution in the future. At first, I would like to welcome this law and also to commend Minister Obradovic, Secretary Tinde-Kovač, who have also made great efforts to co-operate with all parliamentary groups, wanting to come to a law that will not be disputed for anyone who will be able to vote for most of the MPs. There are a number of ideological issues that have been tried here as a subject of debate, but in my opinion, there's not enough room for them here. There are curriculas, there are teaching programs, textbooks where certain attitudes, scientific, ideological and everyone else, cultural, will be exhibited there. I'd like to say a few words to get along, explain ourselves. There are some terms that go in for populist and other reasons, but too long have been used here and very much abused. One such term is, for example, patriotism. That's where we had the problem next. That's one value that is meant for every member of that community, but when you enter, then you have to enter the measure, and that was done here for 20 years -- who's 20% patriot, who's 80% patriot, who's 100%, etc. It's an abuse if you're using one value, and you're not capable of objectifying it, but arbitraryly, however you want, you're making a traitor out of someone, someone's a great patriot, so it turns out it's not like that, etc. That's why we need to stay away from those terms that can cause confusion. I agree that through all the teaching content you should love your country with students to develop etc. So I understand why it's not in those values, like. Solidarity or any other, in. Another problem is the term tradition. That's what they're waving at as if we have some sort of list of what it is that in our tradition they need to accept students and what they don't. We have one part of the epic tradition, it certainly can't be worth chasing Turks on the buttocks and all that, to drag horses on tails of women, etc., there's a lot of things in that epic. It can't become content, and if we let the student learn "Skadar na Bojana" as something that is valuable to him, it's scandalous. It's so hateful. What's tradition now? What's the tradition for? Obradovic's file has introduced an enlightening tradition. He said, "Build schools." That's what the Dragon used to say. Build schools. Children beg you. Is it also a tradition to build only churches, not to build schools? Who prescribed that? In our tradition, we had ups and downs. We had Dosite Obradovic, who wanted to introduce enlightenment, as far as he could, into this Serbia that had just come out of the war. He came after that, Milos. Since it is about students, I will refer you to Djordz Milicevic, "The Known Serbs", to read what happened to Milo Djak, because his name is Djak. Milo Djak had two years of school, he was a clerk at Karajordje, a little bit described himself as being able to trade cattle. He went back to Kusadak, where Milos sent his cops to make the peasants grow. They've been doing the wrong thing around the village, because of course it was a primitive world. Hundreds of them set off and something to appeal to Milosha. Milos sent a wolf to wait for them with his rifles. More than half of him kills, and the wounded Milo Giak betrays one in the Wet Lug and then binds him to the horse, and then he goes through the squire, which also Milos looked at, and everyone shoots him. The dead body was dumped so it wouldn't be buried for days. Then it was Milosevic's mercy, after 40 days, to give his wife a place to bury him. Then in this House, in this congregation, we find ourselves a man who has spoken, and you see the danger of the disciples. You have to kill all the written people, because they're the only ones making a riot. So there's such a tradition. We don't want to go along with that tradition. We'll give Milosha the street for some other reason, but let's not take it right away and say it, now it's our tradition that was like that. When we talk about schools, let's read Vuk Karadzic, what he says about how he was described or taught. Let's read Svetozar Markovic about how we were raised. Let's read Nusic's autobiography, where it was thrown to the ultimate mockery, what that school looked like. Is this all our tradition? It's not. We had another tradition, when Michael sent to Heidelberg, Berlin, etc., many people who built here after a great school, which were some other tradition. Tradition isn't that simple. If other ambitions of other institutions, which they think are competent to say what someone's identity is, then we are in great danger. That's why I like this law that he wanted to avoid all the valuables that could be abused later. The other problem I wanted to talk about is the state of our education, the state of the spirit, and why this law is so important right now. In the introduction, the minister spoke about what illiteracy is in Serbia, what schools look like, what the climate is in schools, how little money is available for schools. We've raised dozens and dozens of churches, and one or two schools in some place. At least some balance would have to exist in what schools serve, I hope their results, as far as education is concerned, are certainly greater than some churches can give. We saw that once schools were of such great value, so many very wealthy people, such as Misa Anastasijević, Kolarac and many others, who weren't always business clean and it wasn't always clean money as then traded, but they were patriots, to use that term because they proved it. So it was a measure. So then they gave the motherland to the Faculty of Philosophy, the second National University of Buildings, etc. When you start Belgrade, you'll see a lot of buildings donated to cultural institutions. The University of Belgrade has many duties that have been nationalised, now tormented, fought with various institutions, to move intruders to serve the university. How's it going today? What are the rich people who raise schools? What are we gonna remember them by? After the great crowd of wealth, what did they raise? When the first poor student is given a winter coat, I will wear it at this temperature for three days here in Belgrade. It's a sad state of our spirit. [[Applause]] We need to turn this thing around, so that even those people, who are rich and all, we need to focus on leaving something swollen in that sense to build schools and cultural institutions. We have a few more questions here that I wanted to say a few words about. I've advocated two amendments to the higher participation of students in school management for two reasons. First, what schools are, because all countries had the ambition to rule by teaching, that only what they wanted to learn, we know enough about the socialist indoctrination of students, what textbooks looked like and what had to be done, do etc. But despite the great problems that the world is in, the economic crises, the big decomposition, the great social injustices, there is an improvement in the awareness of freedom, education is expanding and it has to spread, because it is part of human rights. It is a great sin of both the previous and these powers that we still have illiterate. We need to see right away, we don't have to be great sociologists, that an illiterate man is a poor man, that the children of illiterate people are also illiterate, which means only physically exploited workers. That's where every inequality begins, right at school, in approach to education. Today we have one minority, which is the Roma we were talking about. We have a problem with how to integrate them: just through education, just through school. But we have a problem that there are thousands of people, so-called non-existents, who are legally invisible. They're Roma children who don't report to the home office. He doesn't have a birth certificate, he's not born, he can't get a ID card, he can't get a job, he's not a citizen, he can't vote. We say: "Well, what shall we do, that is one problem; there is no knowledge of how many there are, or what will be done." The following will be done, teams must be created that will go from house to house, from cherry to cherry and say – child, okay, you were born then as his mother tells him, that he should go to school. We had our next problem with school. Thanks to the understanding of Minister Obradovic, we were able to save the honour of the Constitution. According to our Constitution, basic education is mandatory and free of charge. It was mandatory and it wasn't for various reasons I'd seen, some of them were answering for not sending the kids, some were not, and there was no free. How can such a regulation be put in place and the textbooks be charged? A man with three or four children has to take credit so he can buy textbooks for his children. Unfortunately, the situation is that we had to start from first grade. That's also one measure. We can never establish a democratic society of equal people if they have no equal chance of education. Who can study from the inside in Serbia today? When I was in college, 90% of the people were inside. You don't even have 3% today. A father can't pay his tuition for two students, moving about 150 or 200 grand. It's a blow to people's equality, and I guess when the next law comes, we'll also have to talk about it. I advocated the participation of students in the teaching process and in school management. Schools exist for students, not professors. Anyway, in history, we've had that there's a state that's a monopoliest of everything, and it wants to get into children's heads whatever the state wants. She's got her own gendarmes, so to speak, educational professor, who's going to tell them, he's got to learn it by heart, so repeat it and it's that repressive school. There was a time, I remember Ivan Ilich, a great philosopher who spoke down the school, the way they are, repressive, completely useless for the later future of those citizens. On the other hand, there's no good country without good citizens. Of course, and good citizens without a good state. Let's be a good country so much that we can make good citizens. We had one initiative, one idea about student parliaments. That was a great idea. First she was in Uzic, then after Kragujevac, in Kikinda, etc. They've made all over Serbia their parliaments. They used to come here twice when I was president of the Parliament, having interesting debates. So, if they're not responsible and the student parliament takes responsibility, they have their own culture minister, I remember some, who then bring singers, bring actors to schools, etc., come free. They had a minister of police who organizes guards so the dealers can't get close to school. They took on a large part of the responsibility for the safety and progress of the school. There's no reason for them to be out of the process and be just the mere objects of some teaching content they couldn't participate in. This is a democratic issue, but it's not only democratic, it's also civilized. It won't be like this for long, a teacher comes or a professor, tells what's left to say, let's make a living, a notebook, who knows, a grade, who doesn't know it fell, etc. No, I don't. Modern technology enters schools everywhere in the world, and so will we. They'll have to work with new digital technology everywhere, with computers. They'll have to lead the debate. It will also be possible when the student is home that the teacher and the professor have communication with him. We have to prepare them for that time, and that time will come tomorrow because we won't be as competitive as school. That's why it's very important, I've given two amendments here, that the school boards must be involved, in elementary school two, which they won't decide, but they have to be present, that the children know and hear what the school board thinks about them and what they can help with, etc. In high schools that in some issues first they must be invited, always two members of the school board, and that they can discuss important issues concerning schools, not school financing or the selection of directors, but all other issues concerning school, they should participate equally. I also suggested that at the National Council of 43 members there be two adult high school students. Let the academics hear and see what it looks like in school. So let us listen to those who are concerned and who know it the best way. I believe that this is how we promote school by involving students in the common process, and we don't only have entities and objects on the other side, but the school represents one whole, it does exist only for students. This law is the beginning, in my opinion, of a serious reform, but requires full support throughout society. The way society has treated school so far tells us that it has not given much thought to its future. These are some investments that we don't have time for right now, we have a lot of work to do, etc., but they don't exist anywhere in the world more important. Some countries, such as Ireland or Finland, and some other poor countries, have invested huge resources, particularly in education, and in modern education technologies, have managed very quickly to be among the most developed countries. We're not rich in oil, or gold, etc., how we used to learn that we're rich in mineral treasure and I don't know as soon as possible, but we have children. Unfortunately, there are fewer. But in order to be better, they must be given the opportunity to do so. Which means we have to pay the most attention to getting education to everyone. Napoleon did a lot of damage to the French, but he did one good thing. He introduced this mandatory co-evaluation, graduation and compulsory teaching for everyone, so they got the best scholarship. That's how the École Normal Succerieure was created, the school that gave most of the French intellectuals and statesmen. Today we are surprised to see that our students are winning Olympic medals, etc. What's going on with them? Who took care of them afterwards? Sometimes there's a reward, but it's not enough. We need to reach out from the depths of the people all because it's our resource. If we don't bring to schools and universities all those who want to learn, we've mutilated the country, because we're the most important resource it has, which is human potential, we've thrown into a corner, because of the trade chains, fast profits, etc., what will the IMF tell us as fast as possible, I don't know, high growth etc. There's no high growth without experts. It's just a momentary illusion. Experts must be made. On the other hand, there isn't, as I said, a good country without good citizens. In many countries there are, say, in Germany, Politische Bildung, it is a mandatory subject. Then those people learn what their rights are, what their obligations are, how they are discussed, what the amendment is, what the proposal is, what the debate is. He's been preparing for a citizen since primary school. We, unfortunately, become people and officials and all sorts of things, but they are far from some basic understanding of some political categories. This is a moment for everyone, not to mention that word that I said was too used for, but for anyone who cares about the future of this country, to do everything they can to help children get to school. Let's not have such a miserable scholarship number. Rich countries, but also poor countries, and when I studied, we were an even poorer country, but 50% of the students had scholarships, so people are created. Where are these funds that we're going to finance these people from? Can't have a poor Babusnica parent schooling two students. They can be genius talents. I know a lot of examples of very poor children, exceptional talent, which is possibly someone's personal help or not, but they'll stay there in that province and die to the end. I suggest that the government find resources, and it is possible to find international sources that will help improve education, to do everything it can and to help make this Ministry of Education the headquarters around which all potential donors, financials, experts, will gather to create a good school in this country. Without a good school, we're not going anywhere else. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25543	National MP Dragoljub Micunovic has used all the time he has as an authorised representative and eight minutes from the time of the ZES parliamentary group, so that the time is available for 83 minutes and 30 seconds for the parliamentary group. National MP Tomislav Nikolic, time for the parliamentary group Forwards Serbia is 25 minutes and 12 seconds. Here you go. (Free Samardzic: Replica. Let me explain, he mentioned... ) National MP Tomislav Nikolic asked for a word and received it, it was already registered in the electronic system. The time available for his parliamentary group is 25 minutes and 12 seconds. The time that is currently running will be taken away, since it has the right to use total time. (Tomislav Nikolic: I hope it will be added. ) The right to replica required by MP Slobodan Samardzic, you do not have the right to reply. National MP Dragoljub Micunovic did not create a basis for any replica in his speech. National MP Nikola Savic will be given a word after MP Slobodan Samardzic. (Free Samardzic: By the Rules of Procedure.) ) National MP Tomislav Nikolic received his word. When it's over, you'll get a word for hurting the Rules of Procedure. Excuse me, MP and proceed. In 52 minutes, the time will be extended.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25544	I will speak as a representative of the SNS parliamentary group, but really as a representative of my party, since in a large part of the discussion, the predecessors seemed not to represent the views of his party, so I don't know on what basis you gave him your word? Mr. Micunovic and I are at the end of a political career. He read a lot more books than I did, some of us might have read the same ones, how come we interpreted them differently isn't clear? It seems to me that, Mr. Micunovic, that you are preparing a book of your speeches from the Assembly and that you do not mind your party's policy, because if you were to speak positively about what your party did for the past 10 years, you would not have a good book behind you. You're here talking about the shortcomings you've seen in the last 10 years, like you're opposition-- anything that doesn't have to be fixed, and who will, again, do you? It's populism, Mr. Micunovicu. You've led us to the bottom, and now all of a sudden you're talking like the people you can only lift us from that bottom, to get us out of that mud -- it won't, it's over, it's over. So, Mr. Micunovic, Communism is gone. These were your regrets during the time you taught your children. When I think about it right now, except for this communist time, and this time where you've all been very bad at showing up, I can't really remember when you taught your kids that well. To not cultivate patriotism, to attack the church whenever you speak, to have our history given to us for some future in which we will have no place for history, to teach children? Then you'd even like children to rule schools. It was Communism. I was a member of some class council, not a teacher. There were two of us in that class council. And here I see here that someone bigger is going to decide, even though the law says that a student can translate if he has poor grades. The bigger one will bring back something, some solution. What's bigger to make a solution if it's legal for him to translate? Maybe the bigger one will say - we'll translate this one, we won't translate this one. Tell me about it, Minister, because a few of the members are ill-written anyway, and you are stubbornly left not to change them. If we regret past times when children were evenly educated -- they were, then we can't speak from the position of those who distributed them. Mr. Micunovicu, your party distributed them in 2001 -- to those who have money to school and to those who do not. Not to those who want to learn, who learn, who gain knowledge and those who do not want to, but to those who, as you say, can come to Belgrade, who can go to a centre where there are universities or universities, who want to learn, and those who have no money. Now, how many people whose parents have money, and how many who don't? There's less and less of those who have money to school their children. So you between the bad choices, especially when they arrive from high school, children whose only advantage was that they had money to come to college, you chose the best of them to finish college, and children who are like you, and many others here, came from the village to study, in other times, and had the opportunity to study and with their talent bounced very far away, you reached the university professor -- for them today there is no place in higher education. Today, you, Mr. Micunović, at 19 years of age, couldn't get into college -- your parents wouldn't have any money for that, and you have brains to become a university professor. It's the weakness of this society and everything after it falls into the water - all the stories about us having children. What do we have kids for? What are we teaching them at these schools for? You saw that nonsense with the math assignment, asking to be described by a child who shared candy, to get into the psyche of math missions -- what's a quarter, what's half of it. You've seen the frog sweat, you've raised your foot, you've shoeed your feet, and now you're rattling through this assembly, you're tandrums, you're passing laws, you're changing your laws, you're declaring reforms -- reform of reformed laws. This law ceases to apply many of the provisions of the Law on Fundamental Education, in high school, and you have passed them. How do you want to claim your right to change everything in society? So you're going to experiment for five years, ten years with one policy -- it's not working, you're going to change politics. You are the same to change politics - where is it possible, Mr. Micunovic? Imagine, you are now in another 10-year policy change process so that you personally engage? You have a law repealing the basic ideology of privatisation carried out by the government of Zoran Djindjic. Is that not good for Zoran Djindjic - so tell us? Don't celebrate him. Say, that government was terrible. Now we have to make up for the damage that this government has done to Serbia, that the factories have gone, the construction land gone, all gone for a reason, and now 10 years later we're gonna charge those we told -- here's the law, buy you everything you can buy, buy for the euro, buy for 100 grand, for five million, but that's the law, we won't go back in the past. What is it now, what does it feel like in the ideology of your party and in its behaviour? You have tried European integration, convinced us for ten years that only you know what Europe is, that only you can do with Europe, is you alone to rule in order to get to Europe. Now that it's clear that we can't make it to Europe with you in the lead, now you're looking -- how do these others beat us? Yeah, the people love them. Now we're going to introduce ourselves as an opposition to ourselves, so now you're Mr. Micunovic's opposition to Boris Tadic and now the people are going to say -- so you see that this DS is changing things, let's vote for them again and trick the citizens of Serbia and this people again -- no more talking about it. Don't use every law, and one that's good and one that's bad, to show your faults and shortcomings. And your kind words have already given me a headache. One thing you're saying is, one is the Minister, the third is the President of the Republic, the fourth is in this assembly. Where are we? Nowhere. What we did was nothing. That children rule schools. So you see them beating teachers and teachers. How much longer do we have to undermine their authority to raise children's authority in schools? What has now become a school for a child - a place to manage? As you said, he goes to the meat office and brings a copy of the birth certificate and begins to rule a school where he needs to learn something. What is the motive of a teacher to teach him something if this one rules there? America's variable understanding of what education is, Americans who took children from parents who dropped their slaps are now completely changing their basics, since no teacher is allowed to enter school anymore. Master, where are the teachers and where are the teachers? He can't go to school. From whom, from children who rule? What's the mission at that school - to learn? What can they learn - both life and subject? Who can teach them life - these laws where a teacher is free to tell him he's gay and no one can do anything to him? It's the laws. You say more churches were built than schools, so churches build SPC, Islamic religious community, Roman Catholic church. Schools build states, schools build taxes. Why don't you ask your government where the tax money is, so there's no school? Who are you asking here in the Parliament - opposition MPs for not having schools in Serbia? In 10 years, the rule of the DS in Serbia has no schools. You don't ask the government when they're going to step down because there are no schools in Serbia. No, you'd rather not build a church, because if we don't have a school, we don't need a church. What if the state can't make progress in the things it's bound to do? Someone else should be representing this law, one of you juniors who recently graduated from school. Mr. Micunovic shut himself out of it completely, he shut himself out of his party, and now he's talking about what his party should look like when it's in power. It's late, Mr. Micunovic. Somewhere you lost that dysgin out of your hands and I don't think there's any point in looking for him again. Either put up with what they're doing, so don't come to sessions like you do all the time, or perform as an opposition, write books. It's the only thing left for us at this age. But I really expect from here, so let's call the government's criticisms, not from here to there, because when the government starts criticizing from here on out, I expect the government to fall, not to raise a reputation for itself, for someone to make themselves an idol and a hero. So, you DS don't criticize yourself anymore, don't, don't, don't brag, don't fall down when you're boasting, you're getting pretty popular. Praise, show the bridges, the roads, the tracks, because if you start criticizing everything that's wrong with your government, I'm really afraid for the votes of the opposition. I'm afraid you'll win as your opposition party. It's nice to beat yourself, there's nothing more beautiful than that, but in politics it's a disaster for the state. You've introduced yourself, we all know what you're like, you're out of change. You've reached the top, we've reached the bottom. Now we're gonna get to the top, and you're gonna get to the bottom, and Serbia's just gonna get better.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25545	The MP used 11 minutes and 20 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group, Forward Serbia, so it is available to the parliamentary group for 14 minutes. National MP Nikola Savic, authorised representative of the parliamentary group... National MP Slobodan Samardzic is seeking a violation of the Rules of Procedure. I'm asking you to register with the electronic system, so I'll call you back. Here you are, Slobodan Samardzic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure, Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25546	It is very clear and obvious that the DSS has most insisted on two things that it has apostropheed. Micunovic in his presentation...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25547	People's MP, if you want to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure, please specify a member and do not abuse the right to speak about the violation of the Rules of Procedure when the President's discretionary right has been assessed as having no basis for replication and for the presentation of the MP Dragoljub Micunović. If there is an infringement of a member of the Rules of Procedure, please quote it and give your statement and word received on the basis of article 100 to the application of Article 100. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25548	So, the breach of the Rules of Procedure is as much as that of Prof. Micunovic apostrophyd what the DSS insisted on in his reasoning. So this is Article 101, the misreading of words, and I'll explain that, if you'll allow me, because I have the right to my interpretation of what I feel as a reaction...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25549	The MP, giving the right to replication and interpretation, i.e. the basis for obtaining a replica by speaking about wrong interpretation, is the discretionary right of the chairman and cannot be the subject of a breach of the Rules of Procedure. I've already warned you about that. The person to whom the replica is to be given cannot be spoken within the framework of the infringement of the Rules of Procedure, so I ask you either to see the breach of the Rules of Procedure, so quote it, or I will thank you for the mutual attempt not to abuse the Rules of Procedure. (Free Samardzic: Can I use the time of my parliamentary group? ) Of course, if you are going to use the time of the parliamentary group, then you must wait for the order, since there are registered speakers: MPs Nikola Savic, Zarko Korac, Dragoljub Micunovic. National MPs Nikola Savic and Zarko Korac want to use the time of the parliamentary group or the authorised representative, and MP Dragoljub Micunovic has the right to replicate on the basis of a direct reference to the presentation of MP Tomislav Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25550	I just thought people were changing, and then they surprise me. I didn't think a handshake with Ollie Rena could change a man for sure, but I believed he was changing direction, but now that's got me in doubt, I don't think he can. A large part of his speech, Mr Nikolic dedicated to me, which I thank him for, because he clearly showed the difference between them and us, between me and him. The latest events were supposed to be a little blurry -- and we are Europeans, and we are for European values, etc., but today's speech shows that there has not been much change. What I wanted to say was I said. Let me just say one word to Mr. Nikolic about the communist lecture, the past, etc. I'm a professor, Mr. Nikolic, who has confirmation that he's politically unsuitable and is therefore removed from college. You don't have that kind of confirmation and don't tell me now that I'm someone who's always been something with power, but it's failed, and you're coming yelling at the liberators, about, this country. I didn't say anywhere that the problems until October 5th or as long as you want to fix them, that they were good, and then they were bad, I'm talking about a two-century tradition that's our problem, and you want to spend two minutes on television to attack the DS, and then you attack me, not guilty, not in debt, about something that I spoke of in the real interest of this country. So, we need a debate, everything's fine, but we stick to some normal manners and let's say what we think and call it a real name. What you experience in school, unfortunately, is not modern and not European. So that I don't report at all, in terms of European values, we can end this right now. When someone tells someone - European values, some people think it's only for the EU. No, European values are planetary, they apply to every corner of this world. That's the problem. Whoever wants to be against European values, that's the world's human values. That's why we will, at least I will, and I hope many of you, too, want to be in line with those values.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25551	Three minutes of replica time has been used. National MP Tomislav Nikolic has the right to reply.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25552	I don't want to talk about applause. I respect your age, Mr. Micunovic. Two certificates I've never needed in my life, one that I'm normal and one that I'm politically-like. I've never been a member of the Union of Communists or such organizations. So what you needed as a good communist, I never needed as a good Serb.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25553	The word was sought by Minister Zarko Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25554	Dear colleagues, since the debate began before I arrived as minister to tell you a few words about the work we had on the Education Committee this morning, so I'd like to take the opportunity to say a few words. In this system law, the law on the foundations of education and education systems, we have received 200 amendments. We've adopted 50 amendments, from every MP's group of some. Our relationship to the amendments was our relationship to content, not our proposal. As we have accepted the views, or amendments of all parliamentary groups, so I must tell you that we have also rejected amendments from all parliamentary groups. If I look at the table I made for myself wanting to address you, then I can tell you that we have accepted amendments and groups of ZES, and SPS, and G17, and LDP, and DSS, and SRS, and SNS, and NS and Manjin, and amendments to the protection of citizens. Now you can say - the law was wrong, so 50 amendments were accepted. Let's make it part of the argument. I'll take another argument, because we think these amendments improve the content of the law. The government has accepted 30 amendments originally, and we have asked a number of proposings to change the content of the amendments. I had a conversation with them yesterday. That's what we had on the board today. I must say that we have used the parts of the amendments of individual parliamentary groups, individual fellow MPs and asked them to understand that their views, parts of individual amendments, we propose as amendments to the Committee on Education and so we have reached number 50. When you get a detailed report, you will see that the debate on certain issues already mentioned will not make sense, because what is already mentioned is in these amendments that we have adopted. In fact, I have to tell you that we on the Education Committee had a great, working, real atmosphere, which is what we need on the Education Committee, and that we adopted, I say, 50 amendments that, in my opinion, improve the content of this law. I'd just like to say a few words to say that you know what we've adopted, without the intention of going taxing on the amendments now. As for the objectives and values, I will tell you that, for the sake of example, we have adopted an amendment from my colleague Magda, where he, in Article 4, is talking about the objectives of education and education, which we have accepted, is about the formation of attitudes. I must quote this in order for everyone to hear it, and the public of Serbia, because she should know that one of the objectives of education and education is more contained in this law, as follows: "Forging attitudes, beliefs and systems of values, developing a personal and national identity, developing consciousness and feelings of belonging to the state of Serbia, respecting and cherishing the Serbian language and their language, traditions and cultures of the Serb people, national minorities and ethnic communities of other peoples, developing multiculturalism, respecting and preserving national and world cultural heritage. “ I think the content of this amendment absolutely completes a number of valuable attitudes that have been expressed about the story of the objectives of education. I must say that we have accepted the proposal to change the structure of the National Educational Council, we have accepted the proposal that the Sociologists' Association of Serbia also has a representative in the National Educational Council. The proposal was also attended by the DSS, both LDP and DS, i.e. the ZES parliamentary group, and we accepted one of these amendments. What's the point? The contents are the same, and we accepted that. We have accepted two amendments to the protection of citizens, which also relate to the possibility of establishing closer criteria for the recognition of forms of discrimination and to improving the position of education of members of the Roma minority community. I must say that we have accepted an amendment that creates an opportunity for the Ministry to enlighten from next year, with a new budget, talented students to help with one-time assistance. Why? The work of our young people, and yesterday I had a chance to talk to some of them, and I talked to mathematicians and physicists yesterday, and I want to congratulate them once more, because last week I was in a situation where, through one text message, I publicly congratulate those children on their success. Yesterday, I was in a position to talk to them and it's really good for them. Physicians especially, because they stay somehow in the shadow of mathematicians, but yesterday I recognized among them the children I saw last year, which says that we really have good children, and that we have a system of education that we should promote. I'm saying this because we need education for the time and the century that we're trampling together, and if we really think we're a country that wants to develop, then we need to raise the educational level of the population. We have accepted this amendment because we think that, besides the young talent fund, there is a need for the ministry to help these children, because somehow it is often left in the shadows when these young people win the prize, then it is said – the state is not helping them. It is not true, because the state helps in different ways, the Ministry of Education gives money for preparation, the Ministry of Education gives money for travel costs, and this will ensure that they are adequately rewarded. We have accepted a number of suggestions, I will not say objections, related both to minority members and their participation, especially in those departments where the teaching is carried out in the language of minority members, and their participation in the structure of the school board and in the ability to decide in the selection of the director, or the work of the school board. We agreed to hear the word of the students on both the school board and to make their views known and to influence both the level of the school board and the two councils, which is very important to mention, in the National Educational Council and in the advice on secondary and professional education and education. I must say that we have also accepted proposals from different parliamentary groups, don't be angry, but in these proposals, I have also recognised the amendments of the unions we talked to in a few weeks before, so my message to the unions – and the union amendments we have accepted. If I tell you that out of the 200 amendments we've accepted about 50 amendments, then you'll see that's a quarter of the amendments that have been submitted. I have to mention, and I'll probably be in a situation to report individually and by some amendments, that the Ministry of Education really tried to hold one line, direction, because we know what we want. We want to improve the education system, respecting all the good that has been set up by the 2003, 2004 or 2006, because we said that we have maintained the old structure and some solutions, but we think that this absolutely increases the coverage of children, that we are solving some systemic issues that have been problematic so far, no matter how much we boast that everything is ideal. Not everything is ideal. Of course, we have to work a lot on the content, because whatever this solution is, if we don't work on their application, on the work, then it'll remain an empty letter on paper. We need education, but depending on how we do it depends and what our results will be. In any case, it seems to me that through these amendments we have shown our willingness to work together on these or similar issues. I have to mention it, somehow in the shadow of these free textbooks, which are terribly important, I do not return the compliment to Professor Micunovic, but the fact that he first mentioned last year that these textbooks should be part of the state's education relationship, and for the first time in Serbia's history we realize. Here, Serbia's history is long and rich, but there remains another action that will be present on September 1st and as it is present in our education system, it is the internet for each school. We are doing this together with "Telecom" Serbia. Ask yourself a question, how can it be in2009? that we don't have an internet connection for every school, but that's the reality of the education of the Republic of Serbia right now. We've got a lot of schools, 1,815 schools, which are basic high school schools, but our number of kids is dropping. I must, since I have one of my fellow MPs from the time I was an MP, to mention this idea to Parliament about free textbooks. We at the Ministry of Education would not be able to realise that we did not have the support of the Executive Council of Vojvodina, Mr Pajtic, and the support of the city of Belgrade, Mayor Gilas, and the support of Mayor Cačka, Mr Stevanovic, and the support of Mayor Jagodina, Mr Markovic. I've invited other mayors to join us, because these kids who start on September 1st will get that set of textbooks and they'll only get the value of it later. Without intending to continue to waste your time, I want to inform you that we were really trying to accept what we think is being held by the system, and it improves quality. You'll see, we've accepted certain deadlines, many things, really many things. Fifty amendments are not a small number at all, but criticise us freely, and that the law was not good, so we accepted 50 amendments, but as Minister I express my satisfaction that the amendments were such content that we could accept amendments from different parliamentary groups and make the law better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25555	The word has been issued by MP Nikola Savic, an authorised representative of the SRS parliamentary group. If you think that a few minutes before the scheduled break time is appropriate, then I'm setting a break. Only a stenogram, at one point I said by accident that 52 minutes, instead of 52 seconds, the length of the conversation and explanation to the MP Tomislav Nikolic and so much, compared to the time measured, was reduced the total amount of time the MP used. Now I'm setting a break that will last until 4:00 p.m. The speech will be attended by MPs Nikola Savic, Zarko Korac and Miroslav Markicevic, at least by electronic panel, and we will move on to an amendment submitted to article 5 by MP Goran Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25556	We're continuing our work. Parliamentarian Goran Mihajlovic submitted to the 5th amendment. Mr. Nikola Savic signed up, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25557	I've responded to Mrs. Radice Jocic's amendment, if I'm not mistaken. It's not a done deal yet.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25558	All right, then speak according to the amendment, Radice Jocic, we haven't moved on to Article 5 yet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25559	Madam Chairman, first of all, let me ask you, is there a direct TV transmission or is that going to be delayed?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25560	There's been no direct TV transmission since 15.00 hours. Mrs. Komic has already informed you of how long we work depends on when this transmission will be. So the transfer will be delayed. Go on.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25561	Since there's no direct TV transmission, we have to do it like this. I responded to Mrs. Radice Jocic's amendment, and that was maybe at 2:15 p.m. But, um, what you practically shut down TV transmissions and day after day, from session to session, delayed transmissions you're moving, and it's never happened until now that the delayed TV broadcast starts at 3:00, but okay, I'll say what I was going to say. About the amendment Radica Jocic spoke of, some other stories were also heard. Mr Dragoljub Micunovic reported, and there we could hear all sorts of things. Mr. Micunovic said, say, that our children should not learn Serbian folk songs. It's not surprising to me, given the man's profile. I'm just going to remind you here, the minister is not here, but his assistants and his associates, that the famous and famous Gete was thrilled with Serbian folk songs, and here we heard, say, from the father of democracy, by a prominent political figure, that Serbia and Serbian children do not need to learn such songs. Of course, if this continues, and we see that with you Eurofanatics, the trend is like this, our children will probably, over a certain number of years, learn instead of Serbian folk songs, that Serbia at the time of the biggest economic crisis has been able to organize a gay parade or a "Peace Parade", and what our history and our tradition is, it doesn't matter. To go back to the amendment and to the law itself. Given what's been heard and what's going on here, I'm not surprised that this law is passed by emergency procedure, and right now, at a time when all those who have anything to do with education are on a well-deserved vacation, when neither this is being followed nor know what it is about, and just at a time when it is in Belgrade and throughout Serbia, one elemental accident, this unbearable heat of 40 degrees or more, can be said freely. I'm not sure that this law should have been in such a hurry, because this law does not mean anything to itself, he must have other laws, as it is primarily the law on elementary and high school, because the essence of everything that matters to the students themselves, and you will agree with me that the laws are passed before all because of them, and only because of everyone else, is it not in this law on the basis of the education and education system, and when it comes to taking effect, when you vote in a few days and when you vote there, from the new school year, and some provisions and later, start to apply, believe that no more of the students will be able to notice any of this. Mr. Minister, you boasted that you accepted a large number of amendments and I can really agree with you there, you accepted an unusually large number of amendments for one minister. You have also accepted a large number of amendments that have been submitted to the SRS, but I am not surprised, because still educational workers are educated people, and these are people who in one principle and fundamental way approach their profession, and this may show this very number of amendments, that people who have the most direct contact with the problem of all of this participated in these amendments. However, accepting a large number of amendments does not necessarily mean that the law is good, but I just want to say that there is much to be fixed in this law. First of all, this law puts a lot of things into the hands of the minister and I think that, no matter what I said, educational workers of educated people, I don't think anywhere, there's so little freedom and so little creativity in the work of a category like that with educational workers, and we know that several of the last governments have not quite been celebrated by the choice of ministers of education. Since everything is in your hands, I really need to remind you of one thing, which will not be pleasant to you, but at the time we held a principle debate on these laws, it is also the law on textbooks and other teaching means that you have informed us here and the MPs and the entire public of Serbia that our Olympic team has achieved outstanding success in the Mexican Olympics. Of course, you were absolutely right there. Indeed, our youngsters have achieved remarkable success there. Mr. Obradovic, you and your associate, Mr. Kostic, are aware that there is still one serious stain that has fallen for all of this. However, I must be honest, you've done your part of the job, but the essence of all that hasn't changed. In fact, you know that one Paracino student won first place in a republican competition, and that's a convincing first place, and based on that fact, he qualified to be a participant in the Olympics. Official results were published and published on the site and they were on the site for several days, and nobody knows, primarily parents and that student, for which reasons the said student was eliminated from the team, although he showed the best results. Not to read all of this, you answered neatly that there were gaps in both the regulations and all that, and that student deserved to be found at the Olympics. It's absolutely fine with you. However, nothing has essentially changed. There was time to change all that and mention the student still travels to Mexico, but it's not done. So this time I ask you, will you and what you will do, that the guilty may be punished? Because you can imagine this young man, and his parents, who showed exceptional results, especially after the fact and knowledge that our team of young physicists has achieved extraordinary results in Mexico, as he is now feeling. I feel like a man to whom a great injustice has been done, and we know which people, or who the representatives have gone there. I wouldn't want to talk about it right now. Mr. Minister, I want to ask you-- what are you going to do against those responsible for this case I was just talking about?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25562	Mrs. Zlata Djeric, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25563	President-in-Office, I point to Article 88(2), where it is said that at the same time the President of the National Assembly gives the necessary explanations regarding the work on the session and other issues. Namely, we were informed when the National Assembly transfer would be suspended and we received only information that the transmission would be broadcast later on in a delayed period. I think it would be good, and that RTS can give us as regular information, along with when they inform us when they're going to interrupt the transmission and at what time they're going to continue with this delayed transmission, every time, of course, because they have this programming scheme planned and they have earlier commitments. I'm sure they know what movie, which shows how long and after these sporting events, when and how long the delayed transmission will continue.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25564	There's no violation of the Rules of Procedure, and there's no member who regulates the public in the work, who hasn't even changed these changes and supplements, who's been like this before. The public in the work is provided in different ways. The delayed transmission may be considered to be public work. Of course I was interested in when the delay would begin. In a scheme that has RTS, depending on how long we work, it depends on when it can start and end that transmission. Why is he late or very late lately? Because it's been a long time since we've had our meeting. In any case, the transmission will be. Following Mr. Mihajlovic's previous amendment, Mr. Korac reported.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25565	I wanted to take advantage of, Your Honor, Madam President, the Honorable Mr. Minister, the Honorable fellow Members and fellow MPs, the time given to the MP's group to say something about the law in general, or both, although the debate is, above all, about this law on the foundations of the education system. We've carefully looked at both laws. This law is so-called. The fundamental law and it in general, especially now with a certain willingness to change, to adopt some proposals, is in some legal sense a good basis for a future system of education and education, for systemic solutions, by changing it, because nothing changes as dynamicly in every society as the education system. What we missed was in some places the language that was written. We'd rather it be some living language, but good. Unfortunately, when we write laws, it is seen to be more legally formulated. What is our appeal, like the parliamentary groups and my own, is that a huge effort must be made, and it is not just the minister and the ministry, who has shown good will in the draft of this law and has relatively quickly done these laws, which have long been waiting, but to put education in general in Serbia elsewhere than it has today. I can't understand that education in Serbia is given this little attention. I have already stated, when I spoke at the beginning of the debate, that the most successful countries, which were once economically and economically lagging, are in fact countries that have invested a lot, systematically in education and that is a priority in almost all developed countries of the world. A World Market game, economic and economic, is given an education system. You have better experts, the ability of people, people who follow faster scientific development, technological development. With us, it's really with this government, I don't know why, put in a seal, it's very unusual, but it is. I'm going to set a banal example with us when the government is formed no one is fighting for the post of minister of education. Turns out it's a place, no personal absolute insult, some place that's not so interesting. That's amazing. I would like to underline that the Ministry should launch the initiative, I think that Parliament could support it, make a declaration, some general requirement that the objectives of some are talked about the general objectives, we accept them, to set some goals that arise from what is this law and the reasoning of the law, as well as the introduction of Minister Obradovic. I will give an example, Serbia has a terrible problem involving the Roma population going to primary schools. We have a problem at all that a huge number of young people, about 20% of people over 15 years old in Serbia, have not completed their primary school. It's against the law. The goal must be to increase the number of children, and very precisely, for the next five years, how many more each year children will go to primary school. What does it take to realize that? What resources are needed? How do you do that? I think it's necessary for our society. It is amazing that someone is seeking to enter European integration and has 20% above 15 years of age who do not have primary school. People of God, they can't participate in any modern production. We practically have unhappy people who will work physically mostly, unless they're lucky to be autodicators to learn something themselves, so someone gives them the trust to do some more responsible and qualified work. We must have these specific requirements. I would appeal, when I speak, it's not about this law. We will uphold this law. We believe he will satisfy his need. The entire status of education in our society must change. When we talk about it, these must be concrete goals. I have already stated that someone can set a goal for all children who finish primary school to have the basics of information literacy. We have in Serbia today that some schools lack electricity. During the past minister, the project stopped for all schools in Serbia to get doors and windows properly, as children from 6, 7 or 8 years of age were sitting on the spot and in cold, and I know that the ministry has continued to work now. The funds were usually provided. There must be such goals. For example, that every school based in Serbia has electricity, that every school has computers, that every school has an Internet connection, a connection. It's an effort for which funds must be allocated. I will set an example that when you speak about the goals of our children's education abroad, you say that in six countries of everything in Europe, this education is achieved: Germany, France, Switzerland, Greece, Belgium, I forgot which is the sixth, you must then have the goal of being in six other countries for the next three years, and in another ten countries, because children have no education. You're practically working, you're promoting the integration of children into that environment, and here's the story of patriotism that looks concrete, kids don't have classes in their own language, and then they don't have basic concepts from national culture and what they learn, national language, history, etc. I would pray, our appeal, that nothing will be achieved in our society, to be done with this, when these laws are finished, I know that there is a law on preschool education, etc., which is more or less finished, one declaration in which you are bound, Mr. Minister and this team at the Ministry, we will support you, what you can do for the next year or two days or one five-year project, which will be very precise, in which you will write what you put as your priorities. You don't need to think about how different people are gonna have all kinds of ideas. You must stand behind some priorities that must have majority support. For me, as someone who has worked in education for more than 30 years, it is devastating to read that in my state of Serbia 20% of people under 15 don't have a primary school. That's outrageous data. You don't have that anywhere in Europe. These are frightening facts at the level of formal education in our country. Next is the letter. It turns out that something needs to change in the essence of our education system. Your law can't regulate that. Your law gives the basics of this system, and as I repeat, we don't mind, I believe the law is properly done and repaired and completed. We have to say something on the subject. What's wrong? What's so formal about our education system? Why don't our children have some practical knowledge? Do you need a new teacher education? Do we need to have what we're going to do, textbook standards? Everyone writes a textbook. You know what, writing a textbook is simple in some sense, but it's much harder to write a textbook that really encourages the creativity of students, leaving a lot of space for it to further perfect itself. So these are all the things we miss terribly. This is the basis. I can't say, when this is adopted, but please, you're all in education here, you've seen how many MPs there are here in the O.R. You've seen how little public interest there is. I was watching the media that day, and today, it's sad. The media is writing, it's summer, there's no theme, there's no heat, everyone's writing about heat. But to write something to discuss this law on education. No, it's a tradition in our society. There's one story that should make you laugh like this. Nikola Pasic is not in Belgrade, so a Serbian government is forming, this is a true story, so she writes a letter, I have a document, where she says, requires a mandatory interior ministry, you know that in Serbia is the most important, Pasic writes a letter. The most important thing is who the minister of police in Serbia has always been. Let's make it important once who's in charge of education and what our education looks like. I'm categorically saying that we have more ore we won't be able to have more cereals, the countries for agricultural production won't be able to, but we can invest in education, and otherwise talented and capable children to better educate them to pull this unfortunate country forward. How do we move forward if we don't have a good education system? But to have it, children have to go to school at all. We have a problem with children not going to school. You know, 70% of Roma children don't graduate from primary school at all. Well, you know what, that's the kind of discrimination Europe hasn't seen yet. I can't be comforted that it's much worse in Romania, I know specifically in Hungary, Slovakia, it's not a comfort to me. I live in Serbia and I am responsible for it. Please make one number of targets then. The Roma population, how many percent will graduate from primary school? What's the problem with kids not finishing primary school? Miserable, economical? You've been very committed to being free textbooks in elementary school. What else is there to do? I absolutely think that's the real priority of the Ministry of Education. I don't know whether my colleagues support me or not, but there are also educational staff colleagues and fellow MPs here, it's absolutely certain that without investing in education and without education as a priority in the long term in this society, there is no way out. Here's an example that Zoran Djindjic used before me in a discussion. If you're looking at the wealth of the earth, then Angola should be the world's most developed country: oil, gold, diamonds, everything. Switzerland should be zero, because there's nothing. Switzerland doesn't have any natural resources the Swiss used to be the most famous warrior mercenaries in the past. That's amazing. The Swiss were famous warriors in the 16th and 15th centuries and remained as a papal guard as a symbol. Today, Switzerland is a developed country thanks to the ability of its people, and when I say abilities, I mean all forms of education. That should happen in Serbia, too. Without education, we won't get away with it. Why did the board work so well? Yes, the Ministry was correct, but because educational workers understand each other perfectly, regardless of the party they belong to, the degradation of the education system and the understatement of education in general. It's not just about pay. Once again, I urge the Ministry to make a declaration, some goals, that the Government adopt it, and that you push for it, to put five, seven, eight goals, clear goals, time-limited, and say, that's what we're going to do. And when you come down from that position one day to another, it doesn't matter what you say, this is what I've accomplished. I did it or my ministry did it, or this assembly supported it, so Serbia did it at some point. We won't get out of the difficulties we're in. Everyone's talking about selling public enterprises, everyone's talking about attracting investment, and that's all right. Everyone's talking about opening borders, so some unemployed people are gonna go to work on black, and nobody's talking about investing in an education system so we can all get out of this.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25566	Mr. Secretary has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25567	Here, Professor Koraq asked me to call in to say something that I was in a situation earlier to speak to others, to the public and to fellow MPs. We absolutely don't run away from one of those set goals of what can and what should be done in one year. On the contrary, it seems to me that this ministry more than ever, with all due respect to colleagues who have done this job, is trying to open up problems, publicly affirm them and make a proposal to solve them. For me, I have to tell you, but it sounded frantic that the public of Serbia did not know what the structure of the education ministry's budget was related to the education system. This data I've given you is not new data. That's the 2002 data. It is frantic that in 2009, we are now disgusted by this data and that we realize that Serbia is not what we would like, especially as Serbia needs a future. When I became Minister of Education last year, I must tell you that it was the result of one deal, and when the rules of government were not fighting or running away from it, we agreed on it as a rule in the government. I said, as one of the first things, that I would consider the success of the Ministry of Education if the National Assembly were in a position to declare the national strategy of education of the Republic of Serbia. I'm absolutely staying on it. I must tell you that a few days ago with the President of the National Educational Council and the Vice-President of the Council, distinguished professors and academics, I talked about the National Educational Council making a strategy, and the National Council for Higher Education has already made elements of the High Education Strategy. And that this work is being intensified in the beginning of autumn and that by the end of this year or early, we will have a document that will have its working title – the education strategy of the Republic of Serbia, and that it will then be the subject of a public debate. We need to know what we want from education in Serbia in the years to come. I am saying this because the instructions for this document are numerous and there are a lot of professional people in the Republic of Serbia who should contribute to the development of such a document. I'm completely convinced, if we make that document that as a state, we're going to take a big step forward, because first we're going to show what we want from this country, and the second we're going to show what education we need. Then we'll face this question, and what's wrong with us in this education system so we can fix it or change things. Our idea was the primary in adopting this law to improve the education system and make it bigger, to solve unopened issues, and to the laws that will come after this. I don't know if you've noticed, it's safe, but it may not be mentioned in public enough that we want to pass a law on adult education, so even through that kind of education, we cancel this data from 2002, change it and make it less significant than they are. I have to tell you as Minister of Education that we are in a situation to do a few things at the same time, which is to solve questions from the system, because our system numbers 1,200,000 children and people of different ages, I mention from preschool students to students who are, of course, full-time students, and plus to fight for the treatment of education. Dear fellow Members of the People, I am truly telling you, in a change of treatment, there is nothing a minister can do about it. He can do a lot of things, but the minister or the ministry will still be lonely if all of us together, and this assembly through this debate and through some other issues does not understand the importance of education. I don't want to interfere with the editorial policy of any public voice, nor do I have the right, but I can only call on the media to value education and what education means to Serbia. In the past year, I've had a lot of different experiences on education treatment. Excuse me, if we hold a conference on adult education, then two professors, one of our fellow German counterparts, who are the winners of the highest recognitions in the field of knowledge, the two of them are at the House of Fame, and if we hold an international conference involving representatives of several countries in Europe, and if none of our media, no medium publishes a word, it's disastrous. It's not a relationship to the minister, it's a relationship to education, because it doesn't understand its significance. That's what I compared, to make people more plastic, to those who are involved in sports, because sport is a planetary thing, so everyone knows, it's like if Michael Jordan and Karim Abdul Jabbar were in Belgrade without any media announcing that they were. We had two people in the home of famous education, you know, there's also a celebrity house in education, and no one published the information that we made a conference, let alone one of them participated. The thing happened months ago. I didn't mention it, because if I'd mentioned it by now, it would have turned out if I'd cut the minister. No, it's our place to change things, and we want to change things, and to make this law one of those things that we do in advance, to set goals and commit ourselves, and then for a year when we're discussing other issues, we say -- we did it this year, that and that, and that's one small or big step, let the grades stay, but it seems like we've done a lot of things. That's what I have to say. About these Piz tests, we did a conference, and believe it or not, we printed documents from previous Piz tests and shared them with teachers, that they shared them with students, to see that it's not a taboo topic and that it's something that's part of the other countries' system, which is being evaluated by us and that our students, our teachers approach it with one need for an easy relationship. Their researchers, and science needs to be respected, the results of research, found out, believed or not, that one of the causes of our students' bad results was simply fear, fear like that of this unknown phenomenon called the Pisa Tests. They accepted them or did not accept them, but they serve as an assessment of the quality of our education system. I will finish, mentioned a colleague from the SRS, a bad event that happened to us, related to a young student who, in the sports field, chose his place on the team. He was removed from the team, according to us, in a completely incorrect, irregular way. Thank you for your correctness. We asked him to return to the team. However, I was informed that independent of our appeal, the team composition was already directed to the event's organizer in Mexico, the Olympics, and that they later refused to accept the change in the composition of our team. That's the information we got. Of course, we'll see what we and within our jurisdiction can do. Technically, we were told that the reason he couldn't change the composition of the team was that the organizer wouldn't let the team change. Thank God, that didn't affect the score. The kids had great results, and for the first time, they showed great knowledge. Yesterday some of them told me another piece of information, which I want to share with you, someone may consider it too high, but it should be said - among the 10 first boys or students in the field of physics are only two from Europe, one young student from Poland and our colleague, and the rest are mostly from the Asia area.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25568	The word is Mr Miroslav Markicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25569	President-in-Office, I'm advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Article 148(1). Amendments are discussed and said - the President of the National Assembly submitted the amendments to the legislator, the MPs, the committees responsible and the Government. So, I filed an amendment that practically the government didn't say, and I pleaded to an amendment that I didn't submit, and I have proof here. Respecting indeed the sincerest wishes of Mr. Minister to respect the amendments above all opposition parliamentary groups, I would really like to get out of this, to see how to solve it now. Practically, the government responded to the amendment and it tells me how I had to endure it, which I did, so I'd only talk about it then.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25570	I have information that in the congregation procedure, everything went well, but that the government in the explanation, instead of writing about point 3, wrote about point 5, if I understood correctly. In any case, the Minister and the Government's representatives are here, and when we're on that amendment, we'll see what's going on. What has been done in the congregation, there are simply no technical or procedural errors. So, when your amendment is on the agenda, we'll clear it up then. Thank you. I appreciate that it is a problem and it is a failure. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Goran Mihajlovic, who wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25571	Dear fellow Members of the People's Parliament, Mr Minister, we today, in the context of this debate in particular, aim to correct through a series of proposals and suggestions the law on the foundations of the education and education system, and, to that end, the SRS Group has submitted a very large number of amendments. I must point out that I am pleasantly surprised by the fact that after a long time there has been an acceptance of a number of our amendments. I think that should be more common practice in this House. The first in a series of amendments I submitted was the amendment to Article 5. Only this Article 5 deals with general outcomes and standards of education and education. I must immediately highlight the fact and the opinion of a number of colleagues that it is one of the most abstract members, because the very fact that six amendments have been tabled by MPs of all parliamentary groups is saying that it can be understood in one way or another, so I want to highlight some facts. In fact, this article introduces the term "Achievement Standards", which is defined as a set of educational outcomes and trainings relating to each level, cycle, type of education, educational profile, class, or subject. The very fact that standards are defined as a set of outcomes is illogical and contradictory. The outcome, by the logic of things, is the result of what happens after a phenomenon or process, so I don't understand how standards can be a set of outcomes, because it turns out that the purpose and purpose of education and education is to meet the appropriate standard, and in fact it is to replace the thesis, because standards should not be their own goal, but a means to achieve certain goals. In addition, I will give some examples. So let's say that standards exist in all of the works of human labor, for example in technicals by standards, we mean a set of regulations, principles and recommendations for any characteristic phase in the life span of a product, let's say we have standards in construction, production, control, exploitation, recycling, etc. Each of these phases means it has its standards in order for processes to take place more easily in space and time. We could also talk in education about standards in education, but as a means, not as the ultimate goal of education. In particular, these standards of achievement are divided - into general and special. As far as I see general standards, the promoter has defined as standards that are determined on the basis of general outcomes of education and education, and these specific standards are standards that are determined for special purposes, according to the age of children, classes, subjects, etc. And here it's illogical in preschool education and education to talk about some standards. They are children of the youngest age whom we cannot set any high goals and standards, but simply there is a purpose of education and education quite different. In addition to this, what we have brought to the Education Committee means Amendment 2 to this Article 5 - that these words "by childhood" are deleted. So my amendment was, in that sense, to delete this whole position 7 in Article 5, because it is not clear who, in what way and what criteria determine these general standards of attainment in education.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25572	You spoke two and a half minutes from the time foreseen for your MP group. Milovan Radovanovic submitted to the 5th amendment. Mr. Krasic, I'm sorry, were you the one who reported for the breach of the Rules of Procedure or were you involved in the debate? By amendment, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25573	No problem, since it's similar, all amendments are initially similar, so we don't have to formally stick to it because it's a subject. I hope that Mr. Obradovic will not misread these words of my own, since we are sitting in similar halls long ago talking about similar topics, and in 2003 we talked about when this law was on the agenda and when someone else defended that law, the famous Gašo Knezevic, and then, I can say, we almost all criticized the concept, and the way of thinking and bad translations, that I do not now list what we have criticised. This law should represent the starting point of social care for something called the education system. Of course, it is extended to preschool age and there is no problem. We really need to promote something with this law, a way to get to something that's a credible social value for this society. To get to that, we need to see who's all involved in this process. Of course, parents, children, educational institutions, educators, professions, those who need to exercise control and simply continue everything called economic and social life. Because that education, if we don't go very broadly, should satisfy at least two conditions, to mature a child in an educated process, and to later be a useful member of that society, especially for ourselves, and then also for the loved ones, loved ones, neighbors, friends, and generally for what is called the people. In search of these solutions, I think it's best that we turn to ourselves. It seems kind of weird to me, but there's no better way to describe it. I remember in 2003, the outcome, the result, the assessment, standards, licences, etc. Just to remind you of the period when we all went through some kind of educational process. Yeah, maybe he was socialist, maybe he was self-rule, maybe he was doing something on the side, both east and west, both north and south. There were some hoodlums who sent people to doctor abroad, to pick up something that's new, to get in here, to adapt, to catch a connection with something that's development, modern, without trying to be a photocopy. It's literally not to be a photocopy. More or less, we did it. Why did we make it? We succeeded for the simple reason that VKV was a master when he went to America as a doctor of mathematics. That was our education system. When it comes to general education, we were far ahead of others. I'm not surprised these kids are winning medals because they're really intelligent kids. This is the result of a partly educational process, the enthusiasm of their professors, teachers, teachers, and even more parents as a pillar that helps both natural intelligence and interest and children going to competitions. That can't stop. It simply has to create conditions to explode that potential, to verify in the right way. Thank God, we're not missing out on that. The evidence is, the poor environment gives geniuses, geniuses learn, fight for life, for a place in society and move forward. Now let me go back to those pillars and those, as they say, the subjects in that educational process. I don't think that as a society today we're not even able to look at each of these pillars individually, and when we look at all the uncertainty and what are all the challenges, it starts with family, street, school, local community, municipalities, districts, republics, and what is promoted as a value through the media. Or not just through the media, but in ordinary life, where we have a situation where each individual is divided into a person, where home in four walls reacts to certain phenomena as a human being, and when he comes out on the street reacts as a political being, and those two of his views are diametrically different compared to the given circumstances, then we get the impression that imaginary regulations, regulations with a system of mere desires, without real possibilities, can do us even more harm and fool us. This group of SRS MPs, and all of them are quite involved in education, or as university professors, or as professors in secondary schools or teachers in primary schools, simply convey their experience with the aim of improving the existing regulation, adapting, in order to maximise on the basis of existing opportunities and circumstances, so that all those involved in this educational-experience process would not only be satisfied, but would contribute to the achievement of some results that could be verified as socially acceptable. If you hear a heavy word or a difficult qualification about some illogicality, outcome, result, license or don't know what, then just take it, as a reflection of the justified criticism, that it's not good when a frog sees the horse soaring, and she lifts her leg. That's what we had during Gusa Knezevic. That's what I have to tell you, during Gaša Knežević, we got a rule that the educators simply couldn't understand. Come on, they couldn't figure it out, they couldn't understand it, they couldn't understand it, they couldn't understand it, they couldn't understand it, they couldn't understand it, they couldn't understand it, they couldn't understand it, they didn't understand it, they didn't understand it, they didn't understand it, they didn't understand it, they didn't understand it, they didn't understand it. It just couldn't work like one system. Our amendments are primarily about that, because we're afraid this can't function as a single system. Of course, when I say a single system, I think you need to see the system and adapt it to the organization, so that everyone in that organization will be able to fulfill the role it plays within that system. We don't really see it here, and we're afraid that there's some alleged reform out of this that just can't theoretically produce some results. It's just that our regulations require a lot more life. Life seems to be being kicked out of these regulations, and that's why we intervene with these amendments. It's good if you recognize in some number of amendments that we have that intention. We had that intention in 2003, and I have to tell you that. At that time, we submitted a large number of amendments, but it was impossible to talk, simply, a man comes to the pay phone and says, "This is the condition of the EU, the white Schengen list, and in 2003, the same as it is today that is chewing.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25574	Mr. Radovanovic, do you want to discuss your amendment to Article 5? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25575	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Article 5, although quite extensive, contains certain general views and principles, as explained in the bill. In the second part, since we are interested in the table of amendments, we are talking about the standard of education and education and how I generalise, as well as the specific standards. The attitude of the 8th said Article 5 of the bill says - for a child and a student who is due to social deprivation, developmental disturbances, disability and other reasons needed, special standards of achievement can be adapted to each individual, with constant monitoring of its development. Well said, like a fairy tale, but at the same time it's a story for little kids. It's totally fine when it's read and thought that it can be done, that it's doable. However, by amendment of the SRS parliamentary group to Article 5, paragraph 5. The bill requires that this position be deleted. Why? For one simple reason, Mr. Minister, because it is not possible to implement it in practice, it is not enforceable, especially if we have in mind the provisions of Article 155. The bill, which speaks of the economic price established by the minister in charge of education affairs, i.e. in this case you, Mr. Obradovic. It's impossible to apply it. For example, a child distracted by development or reduced development during a certain period of life from Aleksinc should go to Belgrade for a special school, the only school that exists in Serbia. It takes a lot of money to stay, for a guardian, for a date and, of course, for the economic price of attending that school. How much money is that? A small number of people today can afford the pleasure of training children under such conditions. However, unlike a large number of people, there are a number of people, among them one of our former radicals, who boasted himself that he was materially secure for the rest of his life, bought a diploma from a graduate lawyer, so check it out, and it looks like a master's degree in legal science. They, who are connected to tycoons, because of a large amount of money, are all made possible, and a large number of Serbian citizens are not and they live in poverty and misery.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25576	Mr. Zarko Obradovic, Minister. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25577	Mr. Radovanovic, thank you for those words, in words dedicated to the explanation of your amendment. We're talking about the same thing, we're thinking about the same thing, and obviously we're doing different things. We persistently all these arguments that you mentioned as a reason to erase the position of this law, we think that they actually justify the existence of this attitude in the law, because we are the idea of reducing the number of children in special schools and being part of the regular education system. It's our idea, and that's why certain parts of the law, especially related to, to the inclusion and elements of some particular one, will apply from 2010, to prepare for me during this year all the necessary conditions, both normically and essentially, to achieve the goal you've been talking about.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25578	The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Sladjan Mijaljevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic, who wants a word. Here you go, Mr. Saviæ.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25579	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 8. Proposal for a law on the basic system of education and education. In fact, this Article 8 speaks about the performance of educational and experimental work and the level of education of the person who performs the work. In fact, the 4th position of this member is discriminatory to me, because he practically says that only those who during their studies, or their education, have had teaching, or teaching units in the field of methodology, psychology, pedagogy and so on, and in practice we know that in the majority of vocational schools, education is performed by persons who did not have those educations. Of course, now you're going to say, as you said in the explanation of the amendment, that that's not so. In this explanation of the amendment, you said that this law suggests that higher education institutions should be accredited for such programmes and thus become open to all those who want to deal with the profession of teachers, educators and professional associates. I really can't accept this argument given by the government, that is, the resolute ministry. I simply, here with my amendment and what I'm saying, first of all, I was thinking about teachers who perform educational-experienced work in professional schools. It's just that you're looking for an explanation for this, and you're saying that some of these provisions will come back to life in about four or five years and there's plenty of time. You're asking, say, from electrical engineering, machine, construction, legal or some other colleges to practically introduce or accredit themselves for programs where these students will have or direction, I don't know how you pictured it, for educational workers. It's just that I don't think it's in practice and it's not possible. You know that so far this has been resolved by passing professional exams, or licences, as the law now provides and what is now called, but this position of the 4th member should be deleted for another reason, because it speaks of the system of transfer points. I really have to tell you, this point transfer system is a category that is absolutely unknown or very little known among the educators. Believe me, both directors and secretaries of schools object by interpreting this provision without talking about ordinary educators.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25580	National MPs Lasslo Varga, Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac, Arpad Fremond, Esad Djudjevic and Bajram Omeragic submitted to the 9th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Rajkov and Snezana Stojanović-Plasic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Shami, Donka Banović, Slobodan Samardzic, Aleksandar Pejčić and Milica Vojic-Markovic. Mrs. Milica Vojic-Markovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25581	Madam President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we have submitted an amendment to Article 9 in relation to Article 4, which reads: "Employmental work for persons using sign language, i.e. a special letter or other technical solutions, can be carried out in sign language and using the means of that language". We thought the word "can" should be replaced by the word "must." In the explanation that you gave us, of course, our idea was to include, which is an expensive and long-term process, here simply introduce teacher education in all of this and then become a teacher's obligation to educate themselves to work with people who have problems in development. That's why we filed a amendment like this. Your argument is that in the course of public debates, various associations have asked that exactly as a member is, we accept your argument, and I am fully aware that this is better and I have no comment on it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25582	The 12th amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Dimitrijevic. Do you want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25583	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at the very beginning of the interpretation of this amendment, which the SRS MP club submitted to Article 12, I would like to point out that the SRS is seeking to reduce illiteracy in Serbia and that this must be one of the priority objectives of each government. Investment in education, however it may be, is something that must never be seen from the point of view of cost and in our terms is never enough. However, we cannot agree with the proposed solution in Article 12 paragraph 1(2). We believe that the establishment of a Council on Professional Education and Adult Education, as a special body, outside the National Educational Council, has a different background, more specifically, to build up institutions. That our position is correct also confirms the statement of a recent member of the National Educational Council and a university professor, I will not name it, I am sure you know who I'm talking about, who believes that "proposed legal solutions significantly centralise and politicise our school system and increase the costs of setting up some unnecessary services". According to him, secondary vocational education is derived from the entire education system. "It will no longer be in the jurisdiction of the National Educational Council, but under the authority of the new council, the Council for Medium Professional Education and Adult Education, whose members will not be appointed by the Serbian Parliament, but by the Government." I would just like to point out that the SRS Parliament Club believes that to develop and improve the quality of education and education is enough that there is a National Educational Council, a traditional institution that has been working for almost a hundred years, that there is an organisational unit for the professional and education of adults within it, and that the establishment of this new council could lead to professional and political confrontations between them, because the National Educational Council elects the Assembly, and members of the advice on professional education and adult education are appointed by the Government.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25584	The Committee for Education has tabled an amendment to Article 12 paragraph 13. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandar Pejcic and Milica Vojic-Markovic. Does anyone want a word? (Alexander Pejcic, from place: He is accepted. All right. The 12th Amendment with correction was filed by MP Riza Halimi. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Parliamentarians Donka Banovic and Slobodan Samardzic submitted the 12th amendment together. Does anyone want a word? Accepted, too. The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Shami and Zeljko Tomic. Mr. Shami. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25585	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. Minister, please the President of the Assembly, if I cross two minutes, it will be at the expense of the time of the authorised representative. The DSS position is well known in relation to student parliaments. We have advocated our time and continue to advocate the full affirmation of student parliaments and there is nothing controversial about it. However, Article 12 discusses the National Educational Council and the final position is - the meetings of the Council of the First Article's position may be attended by the elected president of the student parliaments, etc. We believe that the National Education Council is a very serious institution and we do not think that representatives of the student parliament are up to the National Educational Council meetings. They attend the school boards, they can attend larger schools, etc., it's all right, there's a whole series of activities that the student parliament has and competencies, and we don't think it's a good idea for them to attend the work of the National Educational Council. That's our attitude. Nothing is disputed about student parliaments, they should be nurtured, it is very useful, but they should not be forced to do jobs that we do not think are up to. If you'll allow me, Mr. Minister, I would like to return to our amendment to Article 4. Mr Samardzic explained the amendment to you, however, I must say that I cannot believe that you did not accept that in a member of the law dealing with education and education goals, where you listed in the bill some 15 different education and education goals, and there is no more or less disputed, that there is no room for one point, a new point that we have proposed, which is the care and development of patriotism, as well as the historical, cultural and social values of Serbia. I don't know what's controversial about this proposal. The fact is, this is not exactly what the bill says, and that's why we suggested one of these attitudes. It seems to me that children, even young children, even preschool children should in some way learn to love their country, slowly introduce them into what are our historical, cultural, social values, of course, according to their age. I don't see why it wouldn't say that in law. I would understand if there were no general places in the law at all, and then there wouldn't be room for this either, but when there are general places, when this whole member lists what the goals of education and education are, there are all sorts of things, everything stands more or less, but then write one sentence like this. I don't see why the government didn't accept it. I ask you once again to consider accepting this proposal, the amendment to Article 4, which we have otherwise submitted, seems to me, Mr Samardzic and I. One more thing, Madam President, we've already protested. From this place, I have asked three or four times to protect the reputation of this institution in which we are sitting, this Parliament. We are doing it again without TV transmissions, and we are doing it with a law that a large number of Serbian citizens are interested in. You'll find it hard to find a family that doesn't have a student, and of course, I won't even tell you how big it is. During that time, RTS is transferring junior athletics, so it will carry the Tour de France. The other day he was taking volleyball to the sand at the time of the assembly. I mean, and I repeat, that RTS is obviously making fun of this parliament, but right now I must say, apparently, with the blessing of those who are handling this Parliament. The citizens will be able to track this when the volleyball is over and everything else. It'll be sometime after midnight. I don't think that's right. I am again protesting and asking you to finally and definitely warn RTS that as a public service it has to serve the interests of citizens and, among other things, to transfer the sessions of this Parliament, which is one of the great democratic achievements, ladies and gentlemen, back in the 1990s.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25586	I have just given an answer in your absence to an identical comment, so I can repeat it to you myself, but the essence until we have the assembly channel and, in another way, we resolve our Rules of Procedure, and not using the provisions of the Rules of Procedure that you and your party were responsible for this segment, will not be what we are seeking, obviously you and I and all MPs and most likely the largest number of Serbian citizens, that all stages in the work of Parliament are being monitored, including committee work, both our representative and our supervisory function, and of course the plenary sessions. In any case, we'll have a complete delayed transmission at a time when the RTS software scheme allows it. Snow White Stojanovic-Plasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25587	I want to strongly support this solution given by this amendment. Unfortunately, it's not my amendment, I wish it were. I also want to support the fact that the Government adopted this amendment. Why? I don't want kids, and I don't want young people who are being taken so seriously. I believe they're capable of making many decisions, but this isn't about them making decisions. They will not have the right to vote, they will attend sessions of the National Educational Council without the right to vote, which is fully in accordance with both international conventions, and with our strategies and laws that we are trying to adopt in accordance with the best practice of respect for children's and human rights. Namely, the Convention on the Rights of Children as one of the basic children's rights states the right to participation. We ratified this convention back in 1991, but unfortunately it has not been incorporated into our legislation so far. This is a good opportunity to finally do it after all these years. Secondly, I would also like to remind ourselves that our country has a strategy also for young people, and this is primarily about young people, if I am not mistaken, who also strongly affirms the principle of youth participation in making decisions that concern them, as well as their right to be informed. I would like to remind you that research is about the fact that as one of the basic problems young people in our country, there is a problem of insufficient information about the things that concern them. They have every right to be informed about things that are important to their development, including education, and also have the right to participate. I think this is an amendment that is in the spirit of all these solutions and I want to support this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25588	The 13th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zarko Korac, Nebojsa Rangelovic and Nenad Prokic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Mr. Korach, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25589	The problem is that several MPs have submitted similar amendments, so one part of this has already been adopted, that is that the Sociological Society of Serbia has its representative in the National Educational Council. It's a mistake. It's not like that from the beginning. As we know sociologists work as school teachers and they absolutely have that right. My colleagues from the Sociological Society and the Department of Sociology at the Faculty of Philosophy in Belgrade asked me to do so, it was adopted. What we have been looking for here, amendments in Article 13, is this, that a member to whom his term of office has expired at the National Educational Council cannot be re-elected. I remind you to choose for six years. If you were chosen one more time, you'd be 12 years old. We do not see that in Serbia it is necessary for someone to sit for 12 years on the National Educational Council. We thought it was six years long enough for someone to be a member of that council. You should give other people a chance. Since there is a chronic problem of conflict of interest in Serbia and it is then solved by various bodies, it says: "A member of the National Education Council cannot be elected a person appointed, elected or appointed to office in a state body, a body of territorial autonomy, i.e. local self-government and a person elected in the authority of a political party or body of governance of an institution." We thought that it would not be bad if it were complemented by the following: “not a person employed by the Ministry of Education, the Institute for the Promotion of Education and Education, the Institute for the Quality of Education and Education, the Institute for Teachers and Teachers, as well as the Municipal Educational Inspectorate. ” We think that would be much clearer. I'd like to remind you in the past ministry we had as a member of the National Council of the Man who was an assistant minister. He was in a direct conflict of interest -- a member of the National Educational Council at the same time as an assistant minister. That was what we were talking about at the assembly speaker and that old building when we talked about the addition of members of the National Educational Council. That was the point of that. This is about the composition of the National Educational Council. You didn't accept this as a sociologist, and you accepted this elsewhere.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25590	Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by MP Riza Halimi. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 13th of the amendment was submitted by MP Mico Rogovic. Here you go, Mr. Rogovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25591	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SNS parliamentary group, I have tabled an amendment to Article 13 which speaks of the composition of the National Educational Council. Mr. Minister, I don't see any reason for the term of office of council members to last for six years. It would be like having you here in the National Assembly, past all ministers, voted out because of continuity, as you gave me in your reasoning, that your term would last instead of four six years. Something similar applies to members of this council, and for the reasons that they can make 43 of them literally 41, except members of the SPC and members of the order of traditional churches and religious communities, they can all be politically engaged, and you know that the largest number of educators are involved in politics. You also explain in one of these views about this article that they just cannot be persons who are in the organs of political parties. I must take advantage of your presence, given that it is not so often in the Assembly, related to the territory of the municipality from which I come, I ask you some questions and I ask you that if you are not able to answer them today, you will do so in the next period. Article 57 speaks of managing bodies in school institutions, where local self-government units are entitled to their representatives in these bodies. I want to remind you, for the municipality of Nova Varosh, and, you know, I'm sure, which municipality I'm talking about, I'd like to remind you of the finding and ask you how long during your 380-day term in Serbia has been cleared of directors, what basic schools are? I am saying this for the reason that two directors have already been cleared in the area of the municipality, one of which is not a member of any party in the school "Gojko Drulović" in the village of Radoinja, Mr. Mladenovic. Despite opposition from the school board, the local self-government unit replaced your member, in front of your party, that school board, to ensure most of the vote for his shift. That's where you brought the director from DS. I want to remind you of the situation with the high school, which is very traditional and old in the area, where you intend to resolve the director, i.e. all these days of the campaign, Mr. Tomašević, for the reason that the investor at the city sports hall did not bring the works to an end, and that the works, according to the contract, were to be brought to an end four years ago, and you planned to open on 1 May, then on Petrovdan, to open, unfortunately not because of you, but because of the investors, this city sports hall, in the authority of that high school, is not open in those deadlines or in this last term. Another primary school director has been replaced and other directors are likely to be replaced in the area. Even here, I suggest that in the school "Pivo Karamatijević", Nova Varoš, there is also pressure on a member of the G17 who does not want to vote for the shift of the school's director. These are the questions that are related to that area. There's probably a problem in other parts. Please answer your questions later or provide me with an explanation about that. I want to remind you, regarding some comments on the proposal for this law, that besides your last name Obradovic, there is a need for more reforms, besides those that you have taken in the context of the law on education and education, in order for the connection between Dosite and you to be found.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25592	Mr. Zarko Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25593	Kolega Rogovic mentioned an example of one school or more schools in the municipality. We have 1,815 schools, and I have to tell you honestly, I don't choose, nor do I decide to discharge the director. I even rejected the proposal of a parliamentary group, which makes up this assembly majority, that the minister be given the authority to give consent to the change of directors. The colleagues who were on the Committee today could hear it, not because I didn't want to take responsibility for it, but because the school board chooses and solves the director and the school board is the one who decides whether or not the director works, how he works and what he does, and the structure of the Committee is three plus three plus three. So three representatives of local self-government, three in the line of employees and three in the Board of Parents. By listening to you, I'd think all nine were from local self-government, and there are only three of them, and then the question arises where local self-government's influence comes from in the selection of directors, when they only have three representatives. I have to say that these years, as you say, more than 360 and a few days, the number of cases in which we as the Ministry were directly involved, an objectively negligible number compared to the number of primary and secondary schools and that the system absolutely works. That's one of the reasons I refused to be someone who gave consent to elect a director. The school board picks him. If there are reasons, the school board can solve it, and then there are precise conditions where the minister of enlightenment can even interfere. I didn't want to cross that line. On a case-by-case basis, what you said is very interesting. Now I wonder what the composition of this school board or these school boards is if they could make changes to that extent.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25594	The amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Olena Papuga. Here you go, Mrs. Papuga.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25595	Dear Presidents, ministers, members of the ministry, fellow Members of Parliament, my amendment refers to Article 13 and in it I sought a different status of the Vojvodina Academy of Sciences, since we know that the National Educational Council has 43 members, of which are three members from the Serbian Academy of Sciences and none from the Vojvodina Academy of Sciences. The Vojvodjan Academy of Science was formed in 2003 by the decision of MPs of the AP Vojvodina Assembly. I did not ask my amendment to increase the membership of members of the National Educational Council. I simply asked that one member of the Vojvodina Academy of Science be found at the National Educational Council and of those three members be one from the Vojvodina Academy of Sciences and two from the Serbian Academy of Sciences. I don't see why this amendment would not be accepted, because it really doesn't change the number of members of the National Educational Council, and I thought we would get more support from the MPs who voted in the Vojvodina Parliament in 2003 for the establishment of the Vojvodina Academy of Science. But that support is lagging behind and I ask you to reconsider that amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25596	The amendment was submitted by MP Marko Milenkovic. Mr. Marko Milenkovic
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25597	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment I submitted to Article 13. I propose to add two members to the National Educational Council in the order of the Institute's scientific workers: one member from the area of natural and the other from the field of social sciences. For what? Because institute scientific workers must not be neglected because they participate intensively in the teaching process, whether as lecturers, textbook writers and other teaching aids. I don't think the government's explanation for not accepting amendments is right, because the National Educational Council is as you imagined it, with 43 members, I'm already a big body, in which the work will be difficult and in some situations and disabled, because members of the Council won't be able to do anything but make recommendations, until the government gentlemen agree on how politically or personally they respond at a given time. On the other hand, in previous years, we have witnessed the establishment of a large number of various agencies, councils, commissions, the creation of various action plans, strategies, declarations, which were often prefixed national, and none of them were national, nor had all these bodies solved anything, except that they met, were printed pages and pages of text, without any results. Even among Serbian citizens, there is a staunch opinion that officials in Serbia whenever they do not want to solve a problem, reach for the establishment of councils, commissions and similar bodies.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25598	On Article 13 of the amendment was filed by MP Zoran Shami. Here you go, Mr. Shami.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25599	Very short. I suggested that the Sociological Society of Serbia also has a representative on the council. This amendment has not been formally accepted, but it is essential, because such an amendment has been accepted by colleagues from, I think, DS. Our goal was to fix the law. It doesn't matter whose amendment has been accepted. I just gave that explanation and nothing else.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25600	The 13th amendment was submitted by MP Miroslav Markicevic. Does anyone want a word? Mr. Markicevic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25601	Dear President, now we've come to what I was saying half an hour ago, not because I didn't know when my amendment was on the agenda, but that we had a little time to see. Since no one is talking to me, I really want you to tell me what we're going to do, mostly because it's not that I want to admit it, but I want to commend all of us, including you and Mr. Minister and all of the parliamentary groups, for the tolerance shown here today in the Assembly, and especially considering, so to speak, the type of law that's being passed today. We're bringing in today, and we should pass a law that concerns our children. It encourages me, and I think everyone watching this transmission will welcome what I'm saying, but that's no reason not to tell you... Well, well, when they're watching citizens, who's looking to watch. From what we have here, the government hasn't virtually responded to my amendment. He's telling me to submit the amendment the way I've submitted. You know how we Serbs are, that I doubt the bottom of my soul that it was done on purpose because of what I'm going to explain, I'm going to use the time of the parliamentary group, which is why it's done. If the minister had received the text of the amendment, which I submitted July 16th, number 6-2282/09 at 14.15 p.m., perhaps a second explanation would have been, it might have been a little awkward for him, but what to do might have been a different explanation than what he would have given me. Tell me what to do now.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25602	Fortunately, the minister is here and on the spot we resolve. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25603	I will tell my colleague Markicevic, the government does not accept this amendment, because it, as well as numerous amendments relating to Article 13, is not complete. The fullness of the amendments relating to Article 13, which applies to the composition of the NPS, implies a change in the number of members, so you say - I suggest, as you suggested, but you suggest either increasing the number of members or replacing one of the members of the existing membership to this member you are proposing. That's one thing. Since you're here, I've made a lapus, since we're talking, you're from Cacko, and Mayor Cacko, Mr. Stanojevic, I renamed Mr. Stevanović, so I apologize to him this way, because he contributed and contributed to the realization of the project of free textbooks.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25604	I hope you're satisfied. Will you? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25605	For what you said, Mr. Minister, about the mayors, I really thank you. All Serbian citizens know the big difference between Mr Stanojevic and Mr Stevanovic. Mr. Stanojevic will be mayor again, that's for sure, because of the results of the work. What about Mr. Stevanović? We'll see about that. In the light of the rejection of the amendments you gave me, you have now added, and because of this situation, and since it is the law regarding our children that I will not talk about it, and I will go over it, even if some fierce lawyer would take this and file it to the Constitutional Court, believe that the law would fall for this. I'm not going to insist on that. I want citizens and fellow Members of Parliament to know what I really suggested. I suggested that as for the composition of the National Council for Education, one candidate also be given by the Association of Librarians of Serbia. That's why I suspected all this was happening, but good. It is therefore very important that the Association of Librarians of Serbia be represented as part of the National Educational Council, as their contribution to culture and education in Serbia is exceptional. Some of them became an integral part of school literature and literature, which qualified them to be represented in this important and representative national council. I don't want to mention associations and societies that are already on the list, I don't want to demean anyone, nor am I invited to assess the importance in our society of some societies, they're all important, nothing is controversial, but this time I don't think that the Serbian Librarians' Association should have been bypassed. To clarify to some, I apologize if I say something that I hope everyone knows, and some fellow MPs, young colleagues, are members of the Association of Librarians of Serbia. So that's the association whose president was Simo Matavulj, that's the association whose members were Milos Crnjanski, Ivo Andrić, not to mention Doberica Cosic, Matija Bećković, our living poets and writers, Mića Danojlic. I apologize to Mr. Daninolic for perhaps in some indirect way mentioning his age, I studied his songs in elementary school and I believe most of us here. There was no reason for the Serbian Writer's Association not to give one candidate as a member of the National Education Council. If the answer were, as it could be, to explain my amendment's refusal to have more associations of writers in Serbia, which I would accept as one, for example, the answer, but then I would have to repeat what I said. What association did Sima Matavul have for the president? What association did Milos Crnjanski and Ivo Andric have, or has Dobrica Cosic and Mr. Matija Bećković? Please, Mr. Minister, as someone here has said before, think about it one more time, so if you need any more technical corrections, because of the spirit of tolerance and because of the type of this law, let's do it and expand, if necessary. You can do it today, maybe I'm wrong, but intimately I think you think like me, from word to word. There will be no harm done to anyone, it will be on the sidelines and the National Council, and the citizens of Serbia, and the children and you as a ministry in particular. And in the end, whether we accept this or not, I want to say that tolerance in the Assembly has proved to be, to the greatest extent, dependent on the Secretary of Resorship, not only on the type of law, as I say some time. So let's not spoil this atmosphere, accept Mr. Minister, and this for Chuck I especially thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25606	Mr. Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25607	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will use my time as an authorised representative of the parliamentary group, and I was initiated by Mr. Minister in response to questions raised by MP Mico Rogovic. Mr. Minister, I don't like people talking one thing and the other working. That's obviously a big problem here. You said you didn't want to get involved in the selection of school principals, you even refused some suggestions that the minister gave consent to the selection of school directors and that it was the job of school boards. However, Mr. Minister, see article 60 of your bill. In Article 60, the minister agrees on the selection of the school's director, and if he does not, or does not, challenge it, the director is considered to have been elected, which would be fine. If I look at the 8th position on which I have submitted the amendment, and when we get to that, you have time to plead, it is said this - an act of refusal of consent by the minister if the procedure finds that the decision has not been made in accordance with the law. That's perfectly correct, Mr. Secretary. The next part of the text says - either by bringing it into question uninterrupted performance of the institution. Read what you replied when you refused my amendment. You'll see it's in great contrast to what you're saying now, Mr. Minister. One more thing, Mr. Minister, by coming to the SPS in not so long ago, it's been three or four years in some municipalities in power, not just the directors of all schools, but all the boards of directors, the school boards. In law, you provided that the Director could change the Educational Inspector to order the school board to change him. If the school board does not do so, the Ministry, or the minister, will disband the same school board and set up a temporary administration body. Are you talking about some school committees, Mr. Minister, that he has some power to resist you with this law as you wrote? I'm telling you, take a look at the amendments we submitted and I'm waiting for you on this article in 60th to read the explanation in front of the MPs, how contrary to what you said when you answered Mr. Mica Rogovic's questions.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25608	Mr. Secretary wants to explain right away.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25609	There's no need to wait for me for that member and that amendment. You can read it now. I don't mean to leave here until the whole law is discussed through the amendments, but I'm very honest with you. Whoever respects the law has no reason to fear not the school board, but anyone. This law is, if you have listened carefully to the explanation, mine as Minister of Education, last week, and the bad practice of previous times has tried these solutions to change, i.e.. to improve the situation. Listening to some of you, I could really think that local self-government has appointed all the members of the school board. You know, like me, that's not true. By listening to you, you'd think a minister would choose and resolve the director, and that's not true. There is a clearly established way and possibilities when the minister intervenes, but we wanted to prevent, on the contrary, we wanted there to be no rope between the local self-government and the school board, but when the educational inspection found that there were irregularities, to give the school board the opportunity to correct what needs to be corrected, so if it doesn't correct that then the minister can intervene. Why? Because it's our higher goal of functioning the school, not if one man is going to be somewhere or not in some place. If you're looking at the aspect of what the law says, then you'll see that what I'm saying is very consistent, and that doesn't mean that there's a situation in all of the 1,815 schools, as much as there is in Serbia, or on all the school boards. The school's got a lot, the law's one. Is everyone applying in the right way, and we need to talk about it. All I know about these 360, 370 days, how much I do this job as a minister of education, is that the number of schools in which there are problems related to the work of school boards is really negligible compared to the number of schools. And of course, each case can be affirmed individually, because it is not only a matter of the situation in that school, but also of the support that some case may allegedly have in the media for various reasons. My colleagues from the ZES-DS parliamentary group are present to confirm whether or not I have refused to accept their proposal to be a minister who signs consent for the appointment of a director. I didn't mean to. Why? Because I don't choose him, that's what the school board does.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25610	Mr. Arsic, you want within the time of the MP group? There's no basis for replication. No, I don't. Nothing vague, nothing offensive, extremely correct one relationship. On that basis, you can't, you can choose another basis, and I can't give you my word. According to the Rules of Procedure, if you think he's a injured member, but which one?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25611	Madam Chairman, find a member who regulates the right to replication. There are two grounds: one if one of the speakers is offended by an individual, a MP, or a parliamentary group, it is the first basis; the second basis, if one of the speakers misread a previous speaker. Your discretionary right is to appreciate the part you say is offensive or not. But the speaker has the right to appreciate whether someone misread him or not, not you. I'd like to use my right to replicate.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25612	You have no right to a replica. You don't have a word. The 13th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Jon Magda, Dragomir Cimeša and Miodrag Stoilovic. The government and the Education Committee accepted this amendment and it became an integral part of the bill. Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. Does anyone want a word? Gordana Pop-Lazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25613	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, treasure to us, here's a minister who's not in Washington. Now that the ministers are going to Washington, it's kind of normal, but I can see that some of the opposition are looking forward to the American administration calling them. For example, if we had to build a ministry, which I do not tend to, however, given the importance of certain ministries in the long run and which are ministers who are remembered or who are the moves of some ministers who remember, it is certainly the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Culture, who, by their moves or their proposals of law and how they affect generations to come. Watch out, some other young people will come behind us who are now in school, and one day they will lead the country. It is very important what conditions they are schooled in and what system of values they adopt. I just want to remind you that the law itself is called the bill on the basis of a system of education and education. This amendment, which I want to explain, which I think is very important, and that perhaps one harsh mistake has been stolen, is on Article 13(3) of point 5), where you list all those who could and who have to make a proposal for members of the National Educational Council and say everywhere -- the Association of the Association of Teachers of Serbia, the Association of Teachers of Serbia, the Association of Serbian Language and Literature, the Association of Foreign Languages of Serbia, the Society of Mathematicians of Serbia, and then you say the associations of historians, etc., again, you list. First of all, I'm interested in why in the case of historians, abstract plural is here, when we know that in Serbia, for many years, the society of historians of Serbia has been working successfully and fruitfully for many years. I don't understand why it was put into another plan compared to societies and alliances of humanistic sciences. My colleagues talked about the Society of Sociologists, for example, and I absolutely agree with that. Here there is one danger to the quality of history teaching, as under "the societies of historians" various foreign NGOs can also negatively influence the national, scientific and professional position of history teaching in primary and secondary schools. We are also witnessing that for a decade it has been working in various ways to reduce the scope and quality of teaching of national history and is particularly affecting the parts of textbooks that interpret national history. Let me remind you, Mr. Minister, I kept those stenograms and translated them into one book, that in 2003 we shared forces and you and I discussed it that way when we shot down that government of Zivkovic in 2003. I don't suppose you've paid any attention to this and this amendment has absolutely had to be accepted. You are also aware as a minister that there are attempts and tendencies of various European institutions for so-called. A controlled history and a European model. This trend exists not only in our country, but in all Southeast European countries, even the elimination of national history. We do have a lot of history left in our books, or culture has remained history or is a history of culture, but to this day we do not have in our textbooks – what is the Jasenovac concentration camp, for example. This leaves the consequences of being careful and has already left some consequences for the past decade, in the last decade of the 20th century, and it may also leave some consequences for the events that are about to happen. What is the reason for today's history textbooks not to have what really happened in Vukovar, what was the siege of Sarajevo, how more than 5,500 Serbs died in that city; what happened in Srebrenica? I ask you who has more interest than we Serbs in the truth about Srebrenica really finding out? The state didn't do anything about it -- to make some round table, say, at least a scientific set, whatever, it could have been, there was interest, to find out. I'm only saying this because I want to convince the parliamentary majority and you -- what is the significance of the matter that we're discussing today, so here's the amendment that I've been given for this, since it's about the Society of Historians of Serbia that's not for underestimating. If you allow me, since I haven't spent much time, and I think it will benefit us all, please don't take it personally, I just want to read this because I think it's very important for those who are growing up today and who will one day take over the state and call on Slobodan Jovanovic, because he kept talking about the need to enlighten individuals, create democratic institutions, wake up public spirit, return to the outcomes of humanism. In one debate on cultural patterns, he says that there is inevitable intelligence, and we are trying to make the degree of education as much as possible, although we are witnesses, there are devastating facts from the beginning of our debate in principle, how high we have the percentage of those who have not even finished primary school. Free Jovanovic, I believe, is not for you or for underestimation, not for any of us, says among other things: "Our intelligence has not transplanted any foreign cultural pattern, nor has it built an original form out of the cultural elements of our people's life. And, of course, the public consciousness stopped to weaken and the signs of nature's corruption stopped to appear. These signs include the appearance of half-intellectuals, who have seen more and more in public life. Taking it in his most complete and expressive vision, the half-intellectual is a man who is neat, and perhaps with a very good success he has graduated from school, but in terms of cultural education and moral education he has gained almost nothing. Whether due to his innate incompetence or because of the lack of a school system, he did not get the incentive for spiritual self - development. The political ambition of a half-intellectual man is not exactly political, but it consists only of making a man rich through politics and in high places of lordship. He doesn't know any more and general goals. It is only when a semi-intellectual emerges at the peak of political success that it has morally crossed." This is what we have to avoid, that this does not happen to us what Slobodan Jovanovic warns us about in the future, and that is why it is very important that we take care of education, because it may happen to us that some pseudointellectuals one day, when they come to positions for which, above all, they did not fit spiritually, to do enormous damage.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25614	The 13th Amendment was submitted by MP Radica Jocic. Do you want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25615	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, before I move on to a concrete amendment, I would like to express my satisfaction that, among others, the minister has accepted the amendment that I have submitted to Article 107, which regulates student evaluation. Since it's only a member of 107, and it might be a little while longer, I'd like to point out that grading is one of the sources of problems in our education. As we all witnessed the Index affair, do not think that there are no such phenomena in high schools, even in elementary schools. The phenomenon that everything can be bought in this society, will lead us, will not be given by God, to be treated by the people who bought their diplomas, and today we've already had some examples about it. Believe me, Mr. Minister, that the beginning of that phenomenon is hidden in the fact that grades in primary and secondary schools are written outside the classroom, in the offices and hallways. It's even going so far that students can't recognize their grades after a parenting meeting. This applies especially to small environments, where everyone knows each other and where teachers suffer great pressures, and if they give in once, then everything loses its meaning. I am therefore particularly pleased that the minister has accepted that in Article 107, in addition to Article 2, which reads – the evaluation is public and that any assessment must be immediately explained to the student – says the sentence "If the teacher does not explain the assessment, and the student requires it, the student has the right to object to the assessment". I think that when we are able to get used to the application of this member, classrooms and parenting meetings, and that many problems in schools will be solved, because, believe me, if all is well explained, the students are very realistic and they accept their grades without any problems. As regards the specific amendment, to return to the composition of the National Educational Council, Article 13(3)6) reads - three members from the ranks of representatives of the community of secondary schools from the list of candidates submitted jointly by these communities and a member from the group of representatives of the gymnasium from the list of candidates submitted by that community, the amendment is amended and said - three members from the ranks of representatives of the communities of secondary schools from the list of candidates jointly submitted by this community, with at least two members being from the ranks of professional subjects, and a member from the class of representatives of the community of gymnasium from the list of candidates submitted by that community. The amendment proposes to amend that position of the bill because the representatives of secondary school teachers are not allowed to necessarily have their representatives in the National Educational Council. In this way, an injustice would be corrected against these teachers, who account for about 30% of the total number of teachers in secondary and primary schools. This is particularly important, because their representatives at the National Educational Council have teachers of Serbian language, teachers of foreign languages, mathematics, history, geography and the like. I think that, according to the reasons you gave when refusing this amendment, which is that the amendment should not be accepted because it is not precisely formulated, the members of the National Council may be teachers who carry out courses from professional classes, and not as proposed by the amendment in the order of professional subjects, you should not be formalists, but that this amendment should be accepted, because a large number of teachers of various professional courses in secondary schools deserve it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25616	The 13th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Samardzic and Zeljko Tomic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 13 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Pejcic, who wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25617	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since the Minister is gone, I address you, the representatives of the Ministry, welcome to the National Assembly, Zdenko, good afternoon. By the way, Zdenka is my associate, my smallness was once the co-ordinator of the school administrations, the coordinator of those chiefs who were removed in one day by the Ministry, but that's another topic, and we're going to get to that topic. Now I'd like to dedicate myself to Article 13 that I've put the amendment on. It's about the composition of the National Educational Council. In this article, I asked to delete Section 8. Article 8 states that at least half of the members of the National Educational Council are elected from the ranks of experts in the field of education and education. If you look at Article 13 and points (1) to (7), you will see the tax on all these professional workers in that nomenclature. You'll see that they enter this National Educational Council. The National Educational Council numbers about 43 members, and we think that this attitude 8 is too high, that it is actually one pleonasm and that the minister could accept this amendment, because it is actually a technical matter. I'm sorry he's not here to answer this question, but when he gets back, I'll ask him the same question.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25618	Members of the 13th Amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Antic. Does anyone want a word? Mr. Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25619	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this controversial Article 13, I see that a large number of amendments have been submitted to it, among other things, to appoint a member of the National Educational Council in the order of representative trade unions established in the territory of the Republic of Serbia for the work of education, from a list of candidates jointly submitted by these associations. National MP Zoran Antic has requested that point 12 of the amendment be deleted. I really can't explain, with all due respect to the unions, what they're looking for in the National Educational Council. If we look at Article 14, where the responsibilities of the National Educational Council are, I can't see anywhere that it says in the responsibilities that the National Educational Council solves employees' rights, working conditions, etc., what the trade unions exist for. Their only purpose is that. It seems to me that here he wants to establish control of at least one union in the field of education. As you know, in a member, it seems to me 12, members of the National Educational Council receive compensation from the Republic of Serbia's budget for their work. Someone explain to me that someone who represents a union in a state body like the National Educational Council can do their job right. It doesn't work, ladies and gentlemen, because the union and employer are and are and are always each other's opposition, and you have to accept that. As for Mr. Minister's answer to the questions of MP Mica Rogovic, as well as my answer to him, I would like the minister to be here right now to ask him to give me another comment on Article 54. The draft law since it claimed that local self-government does not set up a school board, and in Article 54(2), members of the institution’s management body appoints and resolves the local self-government unit assembly. That's what I'm talking about. Maybe parent advice, maybe collectively, but it's the last word local self-government will bring. So the whole proposal can be rejected and said - repeat the procedure, we will not vote for these, as long as the school board is appointed to suit them, and even if they can vote individually for each member, to establish a school board with five members who are to them... Because the Ministry has already given these provisions consent, challenge two, choose one. Don't put your head on the line, because if any member of the staff stops, it's not the whole thing to be chosen, it's just one again. Learn something, it's already needed if you work in that ministry to know. Since I have already been called by the Minister for Article 60 and the explanation given I will read, not because of his application, but because of the chairman. "The amendment should not be accepted because it is necessary for the minister to have discretionary rights in the decision-making process." It seems to me, gentlemen, that you of the Socialist Party love this discretional right, because that same goes for replication. Madam Chairman, I don't understand why you have the desire to protect the minister, his origin doesn't allow it. Sam's capable of taking care of himself.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25620	Fully consensual, the minister is more than capable of defending his views, and I don't think of it, if I have to protect someone, they're MPs, and only when I have to. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25621	It seems to me, I dare say I'm condescending in my attitude, and in order for everyone to know what we're talking about I'm going to read the attitude of the law that you're proposing to delete. Paragraph 8 of Article 60 of this Act reads: The act of refusal of consent shall be adopted by the Minister if the procedure determines that the decision has not been made in accordance with the law or its adoption calls into question the smooth performance of the institution. So, only if any previous actions happen, then the minister decides. That's the point of functioning the system. The school board is autonomous to make a decision, but if the school board doesn't work according to the law, if it is found to ignore, the case works, you know it as well as I do, the decision to elect a director, the case works, teachers think it should be one candidate, and on the school board is another candidate. If there is a situation, you are well aware that this is a matter of practice and therefore I say, if the act of refusal of consent of the minister is taken, if the procedure finds that the decision is not in accordance with the law. Let everyone work in accordance with the law, there is absolutely no need for the minister to react, nor for anyone to call on this. You suggested erasing this. Excuse me, your amendment says "Station 8 is deleted." Did you suggest erasing this attitude?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25622	Mr. Arsic, you've reached out again. Is it to explain something from the time that belongs to the parliamentary group?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25623	I'd like to get the right to a replica because apparently my amendment is misread. But here, I will use the time of the parliamentary group. The amendment refers not to erasing the position 8 but to erasing the text "or by bringing it into question the uninterrupted performance of the institution". That's what this is about, Mr. Minister. So, the possibility remains for the minister to annul the act, the possibility remains if the decision on the election of the director is not made in accordance with the law. That's right, no one's challenging you, that's what I said. That's how it's supposed to be. The Ministry has the right to control the work of the school boards. But the minister's discretion cannot have it without the law being broken. Give up that discretionary right.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25624	Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by MP Jorgenka Tabakovic. I'm sorry, Mr Miletic Mihajlovic reported on this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25625	I'll take advantage of a part of the MP's time group. When it comes to the selection of a three-part governing body, the school board must be known that each authorised proponent is autonomous in the proposal. So, the teaching council suggests autonomously its candidates for members of the school board and no one can enter such a proposal. The Council of Parents also has autonomy in the proposal. The Assembly of Local Self-Government Units has autonomy over only three members who, in fact, choose them in the right sense and put them on the list to be voted on at the SO session. The SO cannot enter the autonomy of authorised proposings.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25626	Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by MP Jorgenka Tabakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25627	Before I go into the defense of the amendment, Madam President Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, don't protect us, we know it ourselves, as well as Mr. Minister, I'm sure. Don't usurp our rights. The right to a replica of Mr. Veroljub Arsic will certainly use him during the debate and say his argument which, as I fear, as the other day, will come to mind - sorry, we were wrong, this time which has not been properly read the amendment, as you have done. I must confess that I am not as generous as Mr Tomislav Nikolic to say - I accept your apology. It will take time for me to forgive you who voted, the word of 20 people from the Prosperity Group to Serbia then present, assumed by the word of your associates, so it turned out we were looking for what we had no right to, our 13 minutes. Please, for a spirit of tolerance, it takes two sides. Amendment 13 also refers to the erasure of point 13, which treats the composition of the National Educational Council. I proposed erasing point 13) in the way it was defined, because it is necessary that those who, like the Union, or the employers' association, are represented in this extremely significant and specific body must have some kind of legitimate representation. As you have proposed for the union here to be representative, in the same way as employers' associations, I will continue with time from the parliamentary group, they must have their own representativeness. Do you know why? Did your associates tell you that the employers' union, which is now represented by the employers' association, is 99% funded by the budget, 3% from membership and 2% from other sources? Do you know that in February of this year, the finance minister signed a document preventing further funding from coming from what they received through the PIO fund illegally, where they are acting as an employer's association, namely the Union, and in fact they are the government's body, which, by the way, holds in a vicious circle of socio-economic advice that cannot have its own committee to determine representativeness because, as such, it was formed under the 2001 Labour Act, which has been abolished and now that committee cannot be formed, and it is a prerequisite for you to determine the representativeness of any employer's association? Have you put this provision in place because it is impossible to implement it or because representativeness will be determined only by court procedure, as has been done so far with trade unions and employers' association? I don't think this authority should do this, because it should deal with extremely important things and employers should decide on the profile of those who are going to be educated, and in many things that are the competences of this national council, but not to be financed by the Government through the budget, because in the situation where we are and in the relations that we want to regulate such funding and decision-making is unacceptable.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25628	The 13th amendment, with a correction, was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic-Markovic. Here you go, Mrs. Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25629	That amendment has been accepted, but it may not be bad for me to explain to my colleagues what's been accepted. It has happened so far, and probably, if we adopt this, it won't, that the person they've been running for the National Educational Council at one point is no longer a member of that mandated proposal and then the question of its legitimacy is raised, because it is in principle being elected to the National Educational Council to represent a particular structure. It's happened a few times in the past. In order not to repeat such things, the amendment, which the Proposer has also accepted, provides for the possibility that the authorised proposer may, in such situations, propose another member of the National Educational Council, so that their representation in that body continues in a valid manner.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25630	Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by MP Sasa Maksimovic. Here you go, Mr. Maksimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25631	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment to the Bill on the Foundations of the Education and Education System is one of the sets of these amendments relating to Article 13. This amendment, following the last position, adds a new position 12, which is said to have lasted three years from the position of the 2nd member, half of the members of the first-name council of the National Educational Council. Mr Minister, it is perfectly clear to me that there is a continuity of the National Educational Council as an existing body and that, as it stands naturally in the transitional and final provisions, it will carry out its duty until the end of the term of office, it all writes so well. However, in Article 12. The bill clearly and unequivocally stands, therefore, for this bill, which is now before us, in paragraph 1, to educate the advice, namely the National Educational Council and the Council for Professional Education and Adult Education. So it doesn't say that they're educated, but that they're educated, which means everything that's happened so far, everything's fine, nice and wonderful, but now we're making new advice. By supporting the continuity of the National Educational Council, are you actually saying that 43 members of this National Educational Council are. three members of the academic class, members of the university professors, teachers, the society of physicists, etc., so that I don't list them all now, just as you have listed them, or all the conditions that you have set in Article 13, do they all meet these conditions? Are these all the eminent sizes worthy of the National Council or do you simply want to show us, or the public in Serbia, all of your political tolerance towards the political structures that you inherited and that you will, in fact, focus all of your party political obligations, which are somehow in this country, on, say, school directors? I'm not saying everything that's happened so far, but that you will now, because somehow this ministerial function of yours is carrying certain obligations, of course, political. Unfortunately, she's still like that in this country. Here, from my colleagues' discussion, we hear that some director's shifts have already begun, I'm not saying that you are directly, at least for the time being. I believe you're an intelligent man, since we haven't had the chance to get to know each other, but this is how I see from your speech that you're an intelligent man, so I don't think you would personally do it, as you say, you refused to decide. I don't think you'd do that in public anyway. However, in any case, we advocate consistency in the law, if it applies to the Council for Professional Education and Education of Adults, then it must also apply to the National Educational Council, especially Mr. Minister, which is clearly what it says in the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25632	The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Samardzic and Milica Vojic-Markovic. Mrs. Vojić-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25633	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, if it hadn't been for the address of one respected MP in a time of direct transmission of about 15 hours, where he spoke very interestingly, but where he didn't even touch the bill before us, but he spoke very clearly and his story was focused on what DSS MPs were saying, I wouldn't have to explain this amendment, because I think he's clear enough. Since then, the DSS MPs alone in this room had no right to address each other on any basis, even though they had the possibility of doing business, I will explain this amendment. We have submitted our amendment to Article 14(1). It reads in the law -- it monitors and analyses the state of education at all levels of its competence and the consistency of the education system with European principles and values. What did we react to? We simply felt that this "European principles and values" must be replaced by something called "national values and national principles", and above all, national values and national principles are in line with universal principles and universal values that apply everywhere in the world. If we were not in Belgrade today, but in Strasbourg and this is the Council of Europe, I would fully support the text of the law, but given that we are in Belgrade and that this is the Serbian law of Serbian education, I felt it was necessary to agree here anyway with some of our national values and some of our national principles. I don't think as badly of Serbs as you do, because Serbs don't feel like a wild people with some anti-European and anti-universal values. What are the values of this people? I guess the ones that apply elementically around the world. These are some universal values, and I don't see Serbs on the other side. What we've been trying to say here, I think it's also clearly said in our amendment, so I don't see why you turned it down. I think that the exaggeration has gone so far that the place of European value you say even EU values, and you later correct that. I don't think there should be any exaggeration in that courtship. We have our values, they are both European and universal. What I still want to react to is that one member of the ruling coalition said they strongly advocate the participation of students in the decision-making process. Of course, I would believe all that so that the students today and their parents today and last Saturday were able to see on television what is today and how much is said and in detail lies, because this is what is the real democratic principle, this public in the work of parliament. Without it, everything stands as a mere story and an empty letter on paper, I believe nothing, neither I nor the citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25634	The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Shami and Aleksandar Pejcic. Mr. Pejcic wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25635	Otherwise, I'd like to speak to Mr. Secretary, who was just not there when I explained the amendment to Article 13. I see it was justified. The point is that Article 13 needs to delete Article 8 because it's pure plionism. The first seven points speak of entering the National Educational Council of experts, in total, we said 43. In those seven points, when you count them in tax, you can see that there are already half of them entering the National Educational Council. This amendment is of a technical nature and I think it can be accepted. Now I'd like to move on to Amendment 14. It's about the jurisdiction of the Educational Council. In the principle debate, we have criticised and praised this law and we are all in agreement here in this room that Serbia is and is in need of this law. We even welcomed the introduction of a new advisory body, i.e. The Council for adult education and education, however, where do we argue, is who appoints this advice? According to you, according to the legislator, the Council should appoint a Government, and we need the National Educational Council. For what reason? There are two reasons why we think the National Educational Council should appoint this new body. It's about depoliticisation, because people from the National Educational Council must know who's expert on getting into this educational council. That's how we give priority to the profession. Respecting the profession, we give them the importance of delegateing members to the advice and advice on adult education.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25636	Member of the 14th amendment was submitted by MP Donka Banovic. Here you go, Mrs. Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25637	This amendment of mine refers practically to the National Educational Council. Among other things, I suggest a new point that the National Educational Council proposes a network of secondary schools. In an explanation of why the amendment was not accepted, I received that the state was responsible for the situation in the field of education, including the situation regarding the spatial layout of educational institutions. There's absolutely nothing controversial about it. In this amendment, I said - I suggested, I didn't say - it determines. The National Educational Council is one competent and quite large body, so he suggests, but does not determine. At this session, we have already completed the debate in principle, we have a law on the jurisdiction and selection of national councils of national minorities. This law provides that when setting up a network of schools, out-of-state departments of national minorities, or where teaching takes place in the languages of national minorities, even the national councils of national minorities shall be competent to decide on the number of students in individual departments, where the teaching takes place in the languages of the national minority, and that such national councils shall be given as jurisdiction to conflict with this reasoning. So I'm stressing again, I put here that the National Educational Council is proposing, not establishing.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25638	The 14th amendment with the correction was jointly submitted by MPs Gordan Rajkov, Snezana Stojanovic-Plasic. Obor and the Proposer have accepted this amendment. The 15th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Shami, Donka Banovic, Slobodan Samardzic, Aleksandar Pejcic and Milica Vojic-Markovic. Mr. Shami. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25639	Madam President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this is about something my colleague Paicic suggested earlier in his discussion. We've suggested a change in attitude 2. The essence of this change is that the National Education Council appoints a Council for Professional Education and Education of Adults, not the Government of Serbia. There are still some changes, where we just made a slightly more logical order of members. So we kept everything that says here, we just sorted it out. We started, of course, with experts from the field of professional education and adult education, then teachers from the community of professional schools and then to prominent representatives, chambers, etc. Why did we suggest that? You know, the National Educational Council chooses the Assembly. We supported the formation of advice on professional education and adult education, yet it is a kind of specific education, not bad that there is a Council and we are not against that advice, but yet, by the logic of things, the National Educational Council is a more important advice. It is natural for this National Educational Council to choose the Council for Professional Education and Adult Education. On the other hand, it's no good to be chosen by the government. The government is one institution that lasts for the longest four years. She chooses one piece of advice for six years. There's gonna be another government coming and it's gonna change everything. It's kind of no pandan. On the one hand, we have a Assembly that chooses a more important National Educational Council, on the other hand, why the National Educational Council would not appoint this expert council. That seems much more logical to us than what was proposed in law. The government has not accepted the amendment for me for understandable reasons, but I'm afraid it's not good for the government itself.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25640	Member of the 15th amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. Mr. Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25641	If you'd be kind, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, to tell me how much time there is left of the parliamentary group. (President: 42 minutes.) ) Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think today July 24th is the value of the Serbian education system, Mr Minister, in one way the affirmation of Dr Vojislav Seselj in The Hague tribunal, when giving the verdict to so-called. Disrespect of the court. Today, he presented himself as Dr Vojislav Seselj, a university professor, the main enemy of The Hague tribunal. He thus sent a kind of message to all Serbian intellectuals that today the greatest task of every intellectual is to fight against the new world order, all its bad sides and to fight The Hague tribunal as one of a kind of release of the new world order, which is a negation of justice and justice. Speaking of The Hague tribunal and so on. Disrespect of the court, you see, Mr. Minister, how unfair the UN tribunal is when it comes to Serbs. A few weeks ago, The Hague tribunal released the Minister of Culture in the so-called "Courtesy of Culture". The Shiptar government in KIM for the same crime. Otherwise, it was Culture Minister Ramush Haradinaj, a man who killed almost all of his witnesses and who was released, who was now released and his culture minister, and Vojislav Seselj, today, was sentenced to 15 months in prison for so-called. Disrespect of the court. Now you see what justice is in The Hague. When you publish a book, you get 15 months in prison, when you kill a living man, they let you go. Otherwise, what kind of educational, social and political programme should be in Serbia, Mr. Minister, was witnessed by bishop Nikolaj Velimirovic in his famous words that we should have a school with faith, a policy of honesty, an army with patriotism and a country with God's blessing. The Serbian Radical Party believes, of course, when it comes to the educational system in Serbia, especially this basic, that young generations need to be given religious instruction. Of course, what I'm saying has nothing to do with the amendment, but you will understand that it has to do with the education system in the Republic of Serbia. So young people should be given religious instruction because any traditional religion, not only Christian, can only give young people adequate moral values, which are largely lacking in Serbia today. If our system were a little bit more educational than it is, then our schools wouldn't have all these accidents and troubles going on. Otherwise, the word education should be interpreted in a broader sense. Who is educated, and who is uneducated, once again witnessed by Bishop Nikolai, otherwise a double doctor of science, doctored philosophy in England, and theology in Switzerland, spoke several world languages, and such a man said being educated meant having a face, and whoever has no face is not educated, so no matter how much school he studied and no matter how much knowledge he carries in his head. What is missing from our education system today is this: the lack of proper moral code. We are like a people, especially this is dangerous for young generations, lost those traditional moral values that once existed. It used to be a shame to be a traitor. It used to be a shame to be a coward, sometimes it was a shame to be a deserter. It used to be a shame not to fight for your country. It used to be a shame to put yourself in the service of strangers. Today, unfortunately, for many people in Serbia, it is not a shame, some even boast of this dishonest occupation. I've got some fellow Members of the People's Parliament to deal with, and so do you, Mr. Minister, because you pointed out this in principle debate on this bill. In fact, it is a link between the economic development of a country and its education system. That connection exists, but that relationship is not direct. If the relationship were direct, then Serbia would probably be one of the world's most developed states in economic terms. You'll admit, Mr. Minister, we have great economic and financial experts, but what's it worth when Serbia's economy is in poor shape. What you need to understand as a government is that the economic policy of the state is not run by professors of economic college, it's run by the government. College professors can, students can, graduate economists can be professional talent I know how much, but if the government runs a poor economic policy, social, fiscal, then the country will be in a situation in which the Republic of Serbia is today. Or to look at things differently, a while ago I was reading a study on British schools and I came up with amazing data. About 90% of British high school students have never heard of Adolf Hitler, the man who bombed their country. You have another amazing fact that about 60% of British girls attending appropriate Protestant religious schools in England don't know our Father by heart. They can't say all 10 of God's commandments out loud, but England, or Britain, is one of the most developed countries in the world. Our high school students, students, elementary school students, I guarantee you, and you will agree with me, they are a hundred times more talented, smarter and intelligent than their British peers. What's it worth when Serbian children live in a hundred times worse conditions than children in England? This link between the education system and the degree of economic development exists, but the link can only result if the government leads a responsible economic policy. If the government does not run a responsible economic policy, then no law on education, education or higher education will produce its results and remain a dead letter in the paper. Here I have to say a few words about an institution mentioned by a fellow Social Democrats League colleague, Vojvodina, regarding the Vojvodina Academy of Science and Arts. We can read from the papers that the ruling coalition seems to have given up on that statute that was adopted in the Vojvodina Assembly last October and that some of the provisions of that statute would seem to have changed, but that there would be one unfortunate institution called the Vojvodina Academy of Science and Arts. You know, Mr. Minister, there's only one academy of science in every well-organized state. The French don't have a French Academy of Science and, say, the Academy of Sciences of Normandy, or the Academy of Science of Monaco, as neither does Spain have two Academy of Sciences, as neither does Italy nor Britain. Every country has only one academy of science. Why do those who push the Duke's statute insist on the Duke's Academy of Science? Because the Vojvodina Academy of Science needs to fulfill the same task that the Dukljan Academy fulfilled in Montenegro, to destroy the national awareness of the Serb people in Vojvodina. The Dukljan Academy in Montenegro did the task. Sometimes, when you say Montenegrin, you know well, it meant a Serb from Montenegro, and it was an elite Serb, the best Serb, a Serb who is characterized by the highest moral and ethical values, but then the Dukljan Academy of Science and Arts, people like Jevrem Brkovic, who today invent a new Montenegrin spelling -- no, being a Montenegrin means being a member of a nation that is completely different from the Serbian. Now Serbian children in Montenegro are learning falsified history. Now in Montenegro, they learn that Negos was, according to some, a Cominterne agent, some of whom he was a member of the Vatican, only he was not a Serbian Orthodox bishop. Now they want to write His name out of the heart. It's just a question of where they want to put it, whether it's at that Duklan Academy, whether it's a new communal or whether it's going to be declared a Vatican Cardinal. The same task has been given by the Vojvodina Academy of Science and Arts, to create a new nation from Serbs in Vojvodina, Vojvodina. Mr. Minister, and now to look into any public institution in Vojvodina that is the founder of the Vojvodina Assembly, in that documentation filled in by people who first have a working relationship, in the questionnaire on nationality, you have the opportunity for people to plead as Vojvodina. Now it's some new nation. What should the Vojvodina Academy of Science and Arts do? To falsify history, to say that there are no Serbs living in Vojvodina, but that there are some Vojvodjans living there, that there is no more SPC, but a duchy. I've listened to some callers who say - the church in this narrow Serbia, and the church in Vojvodina is not the same. These churches in Vojvodina, according to their architectural, or stylish appearance, are not the same as the churches south of Sava and Danube. Take care, if the Vojvodina Academy of Science and Arts remains, I guarantee you that in 50 years, Serbs in Vojvodina will be a national minority, such as the Serb national minority in Montenegro. That looks funny to you now. If someone had said 50 years ago that Serbs would be minorities in Montenegro, many would have laughed. Unfortunately, today is a tragic fact. Do not laugh at the real danger that in 50 years, Serbs may be a national minority in their own country, that there will be a minority in a part of that country called the AP Vojvodina. That's why those who push the Duke's statute insist on remaining the Vojvodina Academy of Science and Art, because they want a complete destruction of national consciousness and of the Serb people in Vojvodina. You won't find two or three Hungarians, Slovaks, Romanians or Croats in Vojvodina to plead like the Dukes. No, the Croat is Croatian, Hungary is Hungarian, Slovakia is Slovak. Only Serbs, such as Serbs were once Yugoslavs and as Serbs were once communists. The danger threatens Serbs living in Vojvodina today. If there's anything you can do to change into the Statute of Vojvodina, change that most dangerous institution, which is the Vojvodina Academy of Science and Arts. Be assured, Mr. Minister, teams of extremely malicious historians, lawyers, sociologists who are ready to falsify the history of the Serbian people in Vojvodina, to create some new nation, and thus provide some kind of scientific basis for the separation of the Vojvodina from Serbia. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I didn't say you laughed, Mr. Minister, but I say there are people in the Serbian public, politicians who laugh when you say there's a possibility that Serbs in Vojvodina would be a national minority, as some laughed that the national minority in Montenegro would be Serbs. I know you're not laughing, as a Serb from Montenegro, you should be the last to laugh.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25642	The 15th amendment was submitted by MP Goran Mihajlovic, who wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25643	In order to develop, provide and improve the quality of education and education in the Republic of Serbia, the new law proposes two types of advice, i.e. institutions that would follow this, and the National Educational Council, as an institution of strategic character, whose task is to adopt a long-term strategy for education and education, and the Council for Professional Education and Education, which is formed for secondary vocational education, for adult education and education with work. These two tips normally need to work together and coordinate their work. Members of the 14th and 15th shall provide for a procedure for the selection and composition of the Council for Professional Education and Education. In particular, Article 15 states that this advice on professional education and adult education should be entered by 21 members and that the President and members of the Council are to be appointed. They are not elected, but named by the government in the order of prominent representatives of the economy, craftsmen, employers' associations, as well as experts in the field of vocational education. My amendment refers to this fact. I suggested erasing these words,'middle education experts', because I guess it's logical that high-school teachers who are automatism teachers and experts in the area they work in, so it's too much to say that these words stand in this article. Because this is how it turns out that those who work can be experts or are not experts, which means for formal and legal reasons I have suggested erasing these words – experts in the field of vocational education (Article 15(2)).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25644	Anyone else want a word? If not, the People's MP Sladjan Mijaljevic submitted to Article 15 of the amendment. The People's Messenger Sladjan Mijaljevic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25645	I must conclude that the Assembly finally has the honour of seeing the minister in the government's benches, who came in a wider cabinet, not sitting in front of us one or two confused secretaries, sitting on a shooting bench, and of course we're left without an answer. So I have submitted an amendment to delete Article 15 of Section 5. For what? I have proposed to the amendment to delete the above-mentioned position of the bill because it is in conflict with the position of the 3rd member. However, if the members of the Council are appointed by the Government, who otherwise consists of representatives of political parties, it is logical that the Government will also appoint members of the Council from its parties. The explanation I received, and some of my next amendments, is almost identical to the explanation I give for the amendments, except we have a slightly different meaning, even in that first sentence, that it is rejected. The explanation I received from the Government is this - the proposed legal solution prevents conflict of interest, as the Council for Professional Education and Education is an advisory body, so that its independence should be ensured in the conduct of the affairs under its jurisdiction. So, from an explanation that the government explains why it did not accept the amendment, and we accept the same explanation only with another meaning. We're also talking about depoliticalizing various councils and agencies, so you need to delete either attitude 3 or attitude 5, or you don't need the government to appoint advice, or any other option. We gave this one - to delete attitude 5.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25646	Anyone else want a word? If not, MP Milovan Radovanovic submitted to the 15th amendment. The word is Milovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25647	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, in the chapter of the bill on development, security and improvement of quality education, advice is provided. The 15th SRS parliamentary group submitted an amendment. Article 15 discusses the composition of the Council on Professional Education and Adult Education, among other things it is said that the council is appointed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and consists of 21 members. Exceptionally, half of the membership of the first-named council takes three years, otherwise it takes six years. By the way, Mr. Minister, which we can personally ask you, which half of the term of office may take three years: the first, second or some half of the membership of 21 members as long as this council has. In particular, the amendment of the SRS parliamentary group envisions adding a position 6 that would read - the funds for the work of the Council for Professional Education and Adult Education are provided in the Republic of Serbia's budget. I consider the SRS MP and the appointed applicant of this amendment justified by the law to provide for how the Council for Professional Education and Adult Education will be financed. You, Mr. Minister, are a smart man, an educated man, and yet you're a minister in the government, I can tell you quite respectably of the MPs of the SRS, and you know there's a rule: who pays them, he decides about them. Why do I say that? You said in response to the government that the members of the Council are representatives of certain stakeholders, so these stakeholders decide everything. These stakeholders will decide on advice decisions for professional education and adult education. You know very well at the time of Branislav Ivkovic who decided about them, the interest groups who paid them. At this time, we in the SRS now know, as you do, that our former members of the SRS are now part of the new site and they decide on behalf of these former SRS members, now in some new party led by Tomislav Nikolic and Aleksandar Vucic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25648	Anyone else want a word? Lidija Dimitrijevic submitted to the 16th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. The word is Lydia Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25649	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, given that the SRS Parliament Club is aware that the Government and the Minister of Education will not accept our amendment, which we have proposed to exclude from this bill the establishment of the Council for Professional Education and Education as a special body outside the National Educational Council, we have submitted an amendment to Article 16. Article 16 refers to the competence of the Council for Professional Education and Adult Education. In point (1) of point (3) of Article 1(1), the Council is said to propose a list of educational profiles to the Minister. Our amendment provides for this to be done in addition to the previously obtained opinion of representatives of the community of secondary schools. According to this new legal solution, curricula and programmes will no longer be self-administered by the National Educational Council, but will do so on the proposal of the Minister of Education, and the list of educational profiles is given in the hands of the new Council for Professional Education, which will decide on educational profiles, but again with the agreement of the Minister. The SRS Parliament Club, respecting the fact that the communities of secondary schools of the Republic of Serbia include more than 300 secondary vocational schools, representing around 75% of the students in the enrolment structure, has submitted this amendment, as we are sure that consultation with those who directly participate in the teaching process can provide an immense benefit in defining educational profiles. I'm just going to say in addition to this that in practice it happened that when I enrolled in high school last year and this year there was a huge interest in the finished basics for visual educational profiles. Modern life flows have to monitor certain changes in education, so I guess that's what's causing the above-mentioned profiles. I believe that this is more reason to be respected by representatives of communities of secondary schools when establishing a list of educational profiles.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25650	Anyone else want a word? If not, MP Marko Milenkovic has submitted to the 16th amendment. The word is Marko Milenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25651	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment refers to Article 16. Proposal for a law governing the competence of the Council for Professional Education and Education of Adults. I propose by amendment that this council, before establishing specific standards of achievement for secondary vocational education and asking the minister for an opinion, first obtain the opinion of representatives of the community of secondary schools. I think it's clear to all of us to consult those who are directly involved in the teaching process, because they know best what kind of problems everything can come across in the application of what the regulations tell them. It is an interesting explanation that the government states for not accepting this amendment, where you say the amendment is not in line with the concept of the bill. You further say that if the proposed amendment were accepted, representatives of the community of secondary vocational schools could suggest solutions that are in their interest, not in the interest of the profession. Isn't the interest of the profession and the representatives of the professional schools the same? Is it possible that someone in the government thinks that the qualitative interest of the Council in the standards of achievement is greater or greater than the interest of the representatives of the profession? If we come from this argument of yours, we wonder if it's possible by the same system that the representatives of the Council or the Government's representative, in this case the Minister in charge, may have solutions in their own interest. You know how, and this government, like all DS authorities since 2000, has convinced us that in Serbia today absolutely anything is possible, in the right order that the government is not being exercised in favour of the citizens of the state, but is being carried out in favour of the narrow lobby of the import-exporter and, of course, the economic monopolies.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25652	Anyone else want a word? If not, MP Radica Jocic has submitted to Article 16 of the amendment. The word is Radica Josic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25653	In front of the SRS parliamentary group, by amendment to Article 16, I asked that in Article 1(3), after the data (3), which reads - "The Council for Professional Education and Education of Adults proposes to the Minister additional standards of quality of work of professional schools and schools for adult education" – at the end of the text the words "with the prior acquisition of the opinion of representatives of secondary schools communities". The amendment proposes to amend that position of the bill because it is necessary to consult those who directly participate in the teaching process because they know best what problems can arise in the application of what the regulations require. The number of illiterate residents over 15 years of age in our country is in favour of this amendment, which I asked for representatives of the community of secondary vocational schools, who have long-standing experience in the work, to give their opinion on the process of teaching itself. I also agree with what you said in your explanation - in order to ensure full objectivity in proposing certain solutions, it would be necessary for the Council for Expert Education and Adult Education to consult a number of other social partners, which would not be a bad solution at all and perhaps contribute to the quality of the Council's work.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25654	The amendment was submitted by MP Sladjan Mijaljevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's Messenger Sladjan Mijaljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25655	In Article 16(1), point (3) of the text at the end of the text, the words "in the previous opinion of the representatives of the communities of secondary schools" are added. The explanation I have given: the amendment proposes to amend the above-mentioned position of the bill because it is necessary to consult those who directly participate in the teaching process because they know best what problems can arise in the application of what the regulations require. And in this article, on this amendment, there are more elements in the government's proposed explanation for accepting than for refusing to accept the amendments. Here, first I will read to you the second part of the argument given by the Government - therefore, in order to ensure full objectivity in proposing certain solutions, it would be necessary for the Council for Professional Education and Education of Adults to consult a number of other social partners, not just representatives of the community of secondary schools. So we're not reducing the number of interested organisations and institutions, we're increasing them, and that's exactly what's most interesting and most called by nature. So we didn't ask anything to erase, but just to add another expert, who's more than interested in giving an opinion and attitude to a particular topic. Otherwise, we've heard about this law today, and we've seen that indeed many stakeholders are more than interested. We have listened from some neocardelic speeches, to some moral sermons from some people who are truly morally very, very poor, so I believe that there are much more interesting groups and institutions that should give an opinion, than some who do so along the way, or we provide them with the first invitation to give an opinion, and those who need to do so are not giving an opinion.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25656	National MP Milovan Radovanovic submitted to the 16th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Milovan Radovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25657	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment I have submitted to Article 16. The bill before the SRS parliamentary group is similar to the amendments made by my predecessors and also by the MPs of the SRS. The government is in Article 16. The draft law, in point 3 of point 3 of point (5), and regarding the competence of the Council for Professional Education and Education, provided that this Council proposes to the Minister, among other things - the standards of the programme and standards for the achievement of the training and training programmes when they are implemented under extra-school regulations. The amendment of the SRS parliamentary group envisions that sub-declaration (5) be added - with the previous opinion of representatives of the community of secondary schools. Of course, in response to the amendment which rejected this proposal, the government stated - that the community of secondary vocational schools would then work in one of its own interests and that other social groups, i.e. partners, could be involved in giving opinions and consent to the Council on Professional Education and Adult Education. Why not? That's not at all controversial, because everyone has an interest. If we are talking about the state, the state must have an interest in perfecting and increasing the quality of education and education. Now it must somehow institutionalise this programme through the law on the foundations of the education and education system, through certain provisions and certain members of this law, and not from case to case of certain sublaws of the Government to regulate it in order to regulate legally institutionally certain gaps and certain gaps in the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25658	National MP Momir Markovic submitted to the 16th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25659	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm going to go back a little bit from a broader point of view on this issue. So, Mr. Minister, if there is one area to be careful about reform, or change, then it is an area of primary education and education. It is therefore a matter of children working with children and in this educational-experienced work with children that really every responsible government should act with extreme care. Unfortunately, since 2001, we have been in a system called the so-called continued and continuous reforms. However, these reforms, i.e. changes, were mostly not changes for the better than for the worse. It's not about changing one system, it's about changing it better. Since 2001, unfortunately, few of these changes have been better. In most cases, these poor changes occurred both in primary and secondary education, especially in higher education. In 2002, I had the opportunity to attend a public debate, today it would be said by public listening, regarding the draft law on university. Then your former colleague, Gašo Knezevic, promoted the bill. Otherwise, specifically in this public lecture, the draft law was explained by Mrs. Serbia's Turajlic. I asked her what it is that is essentially not good in our education system, so that education system needs to go down to the ground and start over? She could not give me some valid answer to that question, except she repeated those usual political phrases that the time of change had come, that the system should be changed, that a system that is compatible with European standards should be created, etc. We, Mr. Minister, and I think Mr. Zoran Krasic really spoke very well of this, had essentially a good education system. When is the education system good? It's a good education system when it gives young people enough knowledge. Our education system has provided sufficient knowledge. Our people, young people, even if they didn't finish colleges and how they were happily accepted in all of the Western highly developed countries, because from here on out of our midst, they brought really one large amount of knowledge. It is quite possible that a certain amount of practical knowledge should have been added to that quantity of theoretical knowledge. It is possible that in practical abilities and skills we were not sufficiently affirmed, but as far as the theoretical knowledge is concerned, our young people absolutely possessed these theoretical knowledge and were absolutely able to manage in every Western state, even if they weren't some great students or great students here. So the education system was essentially good and he could get a transitional grade. You and all of your colleagues at this post of Minister of Education whenever they explain some legislation in the field of education they say – the area of education, the area of education and education must be reformed because they impose European standards. But the question is, is that exactly right? To lay the matter on some ground that every Serbian citizen understands. What educational system does the EU need today? What kind of education system does the United States need? I mean our education system and the education systems of Eastern European countries. The new world order and the EU in particular, they do not need highly educated experts from Poland, Russia, Hungary or Serbia, no, they will educate highly educated staff to be managers, who will be directors, who will organise the process of production and the process of work. What is expected of Serbia? What is expected of Bulgaria, Romania? To give one large army of semi-educated labour that will work for three times as much as the workers in Britain, France or Germany will do, and will then produce cheap products, which will later be placed on other markets. It's the decision of the new world order. What do you think they want you to have in Serbia thousands of great mathematicians, physicists or economists? No, they're gonna give highly educated experts, educated in colleges that don't apply the Bologna Declaration. Belgium does not apply the Bologna Declaration, and Belgium has the EU headquarters, and our ministers have killed themselves to explain to us all the excellent achievements of the Bologna educational process. On Sorbonne, people won't hear about the Bologna Declaration. In Oxford and Cambridge, they won't hear either. The system of education according to the Bologna Declaration is in fact a slightly modified system of American private colleges, and they even took over the names obtained at these universities – master, etc. It's a system of private colleges in the United States, but it's not a European traditional system of higher education. So what the EU wants is for Serbia to give it cheap labour. What would they pay for workers in Germany 100 euros per hour, when they can pay 20 euros here, and our worker does the same thing as a German worker, even better. That's what they want. That's why they're imposing an education system that suits us, not us, but them. They will train staff at selected elite universities, and we are asked to give cheap labour and that is the essence of education reforms that imposes on you the EU and nothing else. What should Serbia do? She needs to see what her interest is. We need to determine first all together what's wrong with our education system. Let's change what's wrong. But the reforms always come down to it -- let's destroy it to the ground, and we'll build the house over and over again. Where are we gonna go with that kind of thinking? So our education system is good. You say now, and you said that in principle debate, and I agree with that, you boasted that our students achieved great results in physics, mathematics and chemistry, etc. I can tell you the experience, say, of law school in Novi Sad. Our students achieve great results in world rights competitions, especially in the area of international law, but there is a real danger, Mr. Minister, that such a situation will not be in 20-30 years, that we will simply receive semi-educated, poorly educated young people, who will work here in the interest of Western capital, and that our science and education will indeed be maximum disabled. So try when I impose these European standards on you not to look blindly at these European standards of value, but look at what our national interests are in the field of education and education. I guarantee you, and I believe that intimately you agree with that, but, you know, your function obliges you not to say publicly that not everything that comes from the West is not good. There is something that is good, but much is not good, because the West and in the area of education behaves in that Latin foxy logic and wisdom – what is well kept for themselves, and what is bad is exported to the east. So look at the paradox. Belgium, which holds the seat of the European institutions, which is the EU headquarters, is there because of your friend Olli Rehn, who you share a passport with here, they do not apply the Bologna system. The Belgian government has made it clear, it does not occur to us to change the system of higher education, and we are eager to change it, to adopt something that has not adopted half of the Western states, or if adopted, it has adopted in the form that suits them. We are the only country in this part of Europe that literally recites from word to word into our legal education system everything that comes from the West, without anyone asking themselves – people, is that good, can it benefit some of our future young generations? I'm afraid, Mr. Minister, that this, calling the reformation of the education system, will lead to our young people having an objectively far less knowledge than they now possess and will turn into a mere labor force of Western capital. And then from this economic development that you're talking about, that relationship between education and economic development will absolutely be nothing.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25660	Nine minutes and 20 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time, so the remaining time has been available to the 19-minute parliamentary group. National MP Nikola Savic submitted to the 16th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Nikola Savic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25661	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 16. Proposal for a law establishing a system of education and education. I would like to remind you immediately that this member refers to the powers of the Council for Professional Education and Education of Adults. Not only did I submit an amendment to this article, but the SRS and my other colleagues submitted a set of amendments to this member of the law, with the idea that attention should be paid to the need to consult people who participate in the direct process of teaching. However, I was not so shocked that you did not accept this amendment, but I was shocked by the reasoning that you did not do so, where it is said - the amendment is not accepted for reasons that it is not in accordance with or in the spirit of the concept of this law. Indeed, I don't know if this should mean that those who participate in the implementation of this law should somehow be eliminated from the law itself and from the whole process. Furthermore, in your explanation, you say – the community of secondary vocational schools has only interests in itself, and does not take the interest in acting itself and you say that it is necessary to consult other social partners as well. Of course, I don't mind consulting other social partners, and for this reason you should have accepted this amendment, and the biggest and most important and essential social partner, when it comes to this council and this member of the law, is the community of secondary vocational schools. But since you haven't done this, it just happens that in practice, because you haven't listened to those who know, see and feel where problems and shortcomings occur, some things happen that haven't come to life and they can't live. In particular, in this particular article of the law that I have submitted to the amendment, a master's exam is mentioned. Of course, it was also in the previous law on the foundation of education and education systems and, believe me, it never came to life and will never come to life when this law is passed. Furthermore, it's not just a master's exam, let's say, concretely, the recognition of previously acquired knowledge and diplomas in requalification and retraining, we have a situation where these things differ from school to school. Practically, this is given on individual evaluation and evaluation of individual people who work on these jobs, and yet, in some ways, there should be unification. Just when I was submitting this amendment and talking about the need to consult the profession, I was thinking specifically about this thing. I'm even this center, which is now formed under this law for professional education and adult education, is in itself disputable, whether or not it should have been formed. Namely, I'm going to make an example out of the city I come from, and I'm coming from Nis. We have an adult education center there, of course, but I think only one or two adults reported for education. Let's say, at the school where I work, we have over a hundred people who report at least a year. Here's another proof that these things have not been brought into practice and that you need to consult those who are at the source of information, on the spot and who know and see where problems can arise.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25662	You used two minutes from the time of the authorised representative of the parliamentary group, so it's time you had four minutes left. The amendment was submitted by the MP Radisa Ilic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. () From the parliamentary group do you want? I'm sorry. So, like the time of an authorised representative -- six minutes, and the time of the parliamentary group is then 17 minutes. National MP Nikola Savic, for an authorised representative, has six minutes left. Then it's okay. It's no problem. So, your nine minutes that have been written that you have used as an authorised representative are being transferred to Parliament time, which remains for eight minutes, and you have your full time of 15 minutes. The amendment was submitted by the MP Radisa Ilic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25663	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 16. Proposal for a law establishing a system of education and education. This article refers to the Council for Professional Education and Adult Education. In point 3) of sub-point (8), the Council proposes to the Minister of Professional Education Programmes and the final examination of secondary vocational education. We proposed the amendment to add the words "with the previously obtained opinion of representatives of communities of secondary schools". The amendment is submitted for the reason why it is necessary to consult those who directly participate in the teaching process, because they know best what problems can arise in the application of what the regulations tell them. Since this is about the final exam of secondary vocational education, it's not bad for the public to hear what happened to one of the graduate high school students of the Paracino generation. He was spoken of by my esteemed colleague Nikola Savic, and above all, I have a moral obligation, as I come from Paracino, to explain what this is about. What's this about? The winner of numerous awards and recognitions has been denied to materialise what he has won with his own knowledge. So, Mr. Minister, after the final round of physics contests, a student from Paracina placed himself for the World Physics Olympics in Mexico. The results were official and pointed out on the website of the Association of Physicians of Serbia. But after a few days, the list is lifted and challenged by the Paracino student, who in the final round of the competition took a convincing first place, the right to go to the Olympics by the Association of Physicists of Serbia. The student, with his parents, and also with me, since no other way was able to reach the Ministry, addressed the Ministry of Education who, I must say, reacted and inspection control was established that the rules on the competitions of the students in physics were not in line with the professional instruction of the Ministry of Education, and that even that rule was not respected in this case. The ministry ordered that a student from Paracino be included in Serbia's Olympic team on July 3rd 2009. I would just chronologically like to tell you that there has been a process of trying to correct this injustice. As early as May 12th, Paracin High School addressed the Society of Physicians directly, the student officially e-mailed and phoned to Assistant Minister Lazarevic on June 3rd. He didn't have any feedback. And finally, on June 17th, at my insistence, we met with Mr. Assistant Minister Kostic, who is here next to you, and only on his initiative has something started to happen in the sense of correcting the student's injustice. I told you further, on July 3rd, you issued an act which, unfortunately, is not respected. However, I must say, in this country there are those who can tear up the orders of the state authorities, deny them, do whatever they want and bear no responsibility. In short, the Society of Physicians rejected the order of the Registrar Minister. In any other country, someone would probably answer for this and carry legal consequences. It just seems, I have to admit, in Serbia, there is such a degree of anarchy and powerlessness. If young talent is being swept up like this, without the protection of the Serbian state, Serbia is really bad at writing about the future for young generations that can help their country with their knowledge. In the end, Mr. Minister, to ask you on behalf of the students, a young student from Paracina expects an answer from the Ministry -- what exactly did you, as minister, and your Ministry of Justice, take on his case? I wish that things like this would not happen to anyone in Serbia in the future and that you would regulate the behavior of certain associations in this manner by some legal regulation.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25664	From the time of the parliamentary group, you have used two minutes and 15 seconds and is available to the parliamentary group for five minutes and 45 seconds. On Article 16 of the amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Verse of Radet. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. The word is "Veriza Radeta".
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25665	Article 16 speaks of the competence of the Council for Professional Education and Adult Education. In point 3 of Article 1 states that this council proposes to the Minister, among other things, in point (9), the approval of students and educational means for professional matters. We think that it should stand "with the previously obtained opinion of representatives of communities of secondary schools", because who better to know what problems can arise in applying what the regulations require than these people? You have answered to all of us, Mr. Minister, that the Government, in fact, and you, that the amendment should not be accepted because it is not in line with the concept of the bill. That's the problem. The concept of the law is not good for you. You know, Mr. Minister, from the time you were a MP, how we evaluated the laws to which so many amendments were filed. The bill has 185 members, and 200 amendments have been submitted, not only by opposition MPs, but also by the ruling majority MPs and by the board of directors. That should tell you something about that concept that you're defending is not good for you. One of your colleagues today said that the importance of your ministry and the Minister of Education can be of paramount importance. But I want to remind you, on the other hand, that no one can harm one society more than a poor education system, starts from preschool to high school, and no minister in the government can do as much harm to one society as the minister of education. Because what you have destroyed, what you are destroying, which has been destroyed since 2000 in a material way, industrial production, agriculture, etc., all these material values, one really responsible and good government in the future will be able to correct and correct with a lot of trouble, but a lot can be fixed. But what's being destroyed by laws like this, generations are being destroyed, and that's irreparable damage. You know, I don't want to be maligned, and you know that I'm not, as we've commented on that famous Gashi proposal, this is his seventh change in one way or another, and it says how not good the law is basically. You, even though you're much younger than me, have been educated like I am in the same education system that we claim to have been great, maybe in one part, it can always be better, built up, repaired. I don't think you have any reason to, like me, and all the colleagues who were educated at the time, not to be proud of the knowledge and education you've acquired in that previous education system that you're trying to force to change. That's not good. You heard all about the Bologna Declaration from counterpart Martinovic, where everything is not applied. We always boast of something that everyone else is fenced on and believe that, remembering you from the time you criticized these laws, I personally expected from you a much better and much less harmful law of the future generation.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25666	It was used two minutes from the time of the parliamentary group, the remaining time is available for three minutes and 45 seconds. The amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 16 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Krstin. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zarko Korać, Nebojsa Rangelovic and Nenad Prokic. The government and the Education Committee have adopted this amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Member of the 17th Amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Nikola Savic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25667	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 17. Proposal for a law on the foundation of a system of education and education, and thus abolishing the Office for the Valuation of Quality of Education and Education. For what? First of all, the SRS considers it excessive, especially in these economic conditions, to introduce another administrative body, and the evaluation of the quality of education and education should of course exist, but this evaluation will best execute the market and in this case, a very mentioned example of our representatives, or our students in Mexico, where they have shown exceptional knowledge, so that is an evaluation. Not only that, but the evaluation can be carried out in other ways, depending on what happens if the economy works at one time, it will be seen that some schools or colleges will have more pass-by in employment, because the practice has shown that their students, or students, have shown better knowledge. There are other things that need to be lifted. Here, in the light of the law, it says that his work should also be brought into line with activities related to European integration. I think something like this shouldn't be in the law, because if it does, sometimes these European integrations will end, and this will remain in the law, then only because of that fact, only because of that fact will it be necessary to change the law. Some thing that's a passing category, a passing character, shouldn't stand in the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25668	The 17th Amendment was submitted by MP Otto Kishmarton. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 17th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Shami, Donka Banović, Slobodan Samardzic, Aleksandar Pejčić and Milica Vojic-Markovic. The word has the People's Messenger Zoran Shami.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25669	Thank you, Madam Chairman, if I exceed two minutes, you will at the expense of the group's representatives to time me. I will also explain this amendment, but at the same time the amendment that we have submitted to the next 18th member, which is the consequence of this amendment, so there is no reason to explain it twice. The DSS MPs submitted the amendment, and now I understand, which is the same as fellow Members of Savic's amendment. We propose to delete the institution under point 2) from the list of these institutions, so that the education and education institutions are simply abolished. We believe that it is enough that one quality institution, as is otherwise the Institute for the Promotion of Education and Education, remains, and is now proposed in Article 18, along with three centres, which otherwise the law stipulates that there is, to introduce a centre for the evaluation of quality of education and education. We don't think it's necessary there's a special institution. I think that's how you cut costs. We're not against the formation of new institutions when there's some justification for it, but I think in this case, retaining and an institution to evaluate the quality of education and education is quite a cloudy motivation in general why this institution would exist. I think it's enough to keep just one institution for improving education and education, and within it, next to the existing three centres, and that's our change in Article 18, to introduce a center for the quality of education and education, as a fourth center. You refused that amendment. I don't think that's good, and I think this is a solution proposed by DSS MPs no doubt better. Now in the end, let me be, Mr. Minister, a little boring. I'm going to return you to the amendment to Article 4 and ask you to either accept that amendment or answer now why you won't accept it. I remind you, in addition to all 15, it seems to me, the points listed here, what are the objectives of education and education, we have suggested another point, because it does not say in these 15 points, it does not explicitly, it does not write thoughts even implicitly, and that is, I will remind, the care and development of patriotism, as well as the historical, cultural and social values of the state of Serbia. I'm staying on the point that it's necessary to get this into the law. I stay that it is necessary for students at school, and I said, even in preschool I mean, suitable for years, to start caring for their country. I absolutely don't understand why this amendment wasn't accepted. If you are still not to accept it, please give the MPs a DSS explanation. I won't be answering again today, so I'm asking you to do it now.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25670	Two minutes and 33 seconds have been spent from the time available to the authorised representative, so it is available for eight minutes and 30 seconds. The 18th amendment was submitted by Radica Jocic. The government and the Education Committee have adopted this amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the law. Member of the 18th amendment was submitted by MP Sladjan Mijaljevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Sladjan Mijaljević.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25671	Article 18 of Article 2 is amended as follows: "The Institute of Law 1 of this Member has an organisational unit (center), which deals with the development of programmes and textbooks, professional education and adult education, professional development of educational staff. ''The amendment proposes to amend that member of the bill because there are two institutions in addition to two councils, and each office has three centres, plus an unlimited number of expert teams of school administrations. Local self-government units can also form training centres with this law. If this is added to the region of Vojvodina, which has a special secretariat, all this is a great burden on the Republic of Serbia's budget, the number of centres is growing, and the number of students is constantly dropping. The number of centres and agencies is increasing by law, which is absurd. In the government's explanation, the amendment is not accepted because by focusing competence within a centre, it would question the quality and efficiency of the professional tasks of the institution. It's a conceptual difference, and it's a political-economic type. We are against decentralisation at all costs and at the expense of quality, and in the economic sense of opening up a large, even too many jobs that are financed from various budgets: the Republic, the local, etc. So we think that we should pay a little more attention to quality and less to quantity, because we don't have to hire party associates and activists at all costs.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25672	The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zarko Korac, Nebojsa Rangelovic and Nenad Prokic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 18 of the amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25673	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment that I have submitted to article 18 is, in fact, the consequence of the amendment submitted by MP Otto Kishmarton to article 17. It's a bill of law. I can say that the amendment refers to the fact that whenever any law is passed, every ministry takes advantage of the opportunity to put a multiplication of the state administration into that law. Article 18(3), which I asked to delete, or change, refers to the Institute for the Promotion of Education and Education. The institution, as foreseen by the law, can also have organisational units of the centres, which are centres for the development of the programme of trainees, a centre for professional education and adult education, a centre for professional development of educational staff. The following is said: "The institution referred to in Article 1 may have other organisational units, in accordance with the statutes". Now, Mr. Minister, all right, you haven't accepted my amendment, but why did you list these three centers? You could have simply written - the institution of Section 1 of this article has its own organisational units according to its statute and to finish the story. The aim here seems to be just to multiply the administration, and that's what you can already see when it comes to a high-quality education and education centre. If you look at the responsibilities of this centre, you can see that they are, minors, identical to the responsibilities of the National Educational Council. However, all three amendments, both to Article 17 and to Article 18 and to Article 22, submitted by MP Igor Becic, have the following explanation: "Amendman should not be accepted because it does not comply with the concept of the bill. There should be independent institutions with demarcated powers. The Institute for the Promotion and Education of Educational Education prepares curricula and programmes and other regulations of the Ministry's competence." This to me, Mr. Minister, as these Europeans like to say, can be called an agency. You just got a little bit different from baptizing one state agency. The Institute for the Valuation of Quality of Education and Education shall carry out professional tasks in the field of monitoring and evaluation of the degree of achievement of the general principles, objectives of education and education and standard achievements, i.e. the quality of education and education. So what's the National Educational Council gonna do? If we look at a little bit at certain points of jurisdiction, it'll be seen that some are completely identical, and some are just a little bit different in writing. It should stop this practice that has been introduced since that October 5th, that the state administration is constantly multiplying. One more thing, for those who are constantly praised for European achievements and standards and values, I must tell them that these European standards of achievement and values belong to what is a Serbian culture, which is a Serbian tradition, which is Serbian achievements, which is a Serbian civilization. When I was once in the delegations of the Serbian Parliament in Strasbourg, more than once, almost everyone we talked to warned us that everything we did not give up, but that ours would fit with the rest of Europe. Unfortunately, it seems to me that the situation here is quite the other way around. We give up everything and accept all their health for granted, and there they tell us nicely, unlike these here, that we do not even give up the right to obtain the documents we receive in Serbian, which unfortunately I see that even some ministers here will not use and accept in the Serbian Parliament. You take care of that, Mr. Minister, because every law when passed, and especially those from education, and I think it's a much more important law than the budget law, or the ministry law, because according to that law, our children need to finish school, start living and working, create their families, and this law should give them quality. I just doubt that with this and this kind of state administration, which is constantly forced, the money remains for quality work with our children.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25674	Three minutes and 25 seconds from the time for an authorised representative and you have five minutes left. The 18th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Shami, Donka Banovic, Slobodan Samardzic, Aleksandar Pejcic and Milica Vojic-Markovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 18 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Riza Halimi. The Legislative Committee did not consider the correction. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Radovanovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Milovan Radovanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25675	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, Article 17. The draft law on the basis of education and education systems, for the purpose of monitoring, providing and improving the quality and development of education and education systems, has been established by two institutions. One of the institutions for improving education and education has its own centers. One of them is a centre for professional education and adult education, which, among other things, performs professional tasks, and in particular, as stated in point 1) of Article 1(1) of the Law proposal, prepares standards from the competence of the Council for Professional Education and Education of Adults. The amendment of the SRS parliamentary group provides for the first point of view 1) to add the words "with the previously obtained opinion of representatives of the communities of secondary schools". We discussed this a lot today and exchanged opinions, we MPs of the SRS with Mr. Zarko Obradovic, Minister of Education. We have a different view of it. It is our argument that those who directly participate in the teaching process should give their opinion to this centre, for better consideration, promotion, insurance of education and the entire education and education system.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25676	National MP Nikola Savic submitted to Article 20 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Nikola Savic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25677	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 20. Proposal for a law establishing a system of education and education. The SRS and my colleagues also submitted to this member of the law several amendments, with an idea like we did in article 16. In fact, this Article 20 practically speaks about what are entrusted jobs performed by adult education and education centres, which are entrusted with the jobs they are being seduced by. The profession is not consulted here, and we believe that again those who participate directly in the process of education and education, who most know what problems they face in the field, we have suggested that their opinion be respected. Of course, as with the previous amendment, or amendment to Article 16, you did not do so. However, I must admit that you have now provided a different explanation, since practically these two amendments and these two members I have spoken of are compatible and I expected you to give the same or in the far line similar explanations of the reasons for which you reject the amendments. You didn't do it, but the essence hasn't changed.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25678	The word has a folk letter from Gordana Pop-Lazic. The parliamentary group's time is three minutes and 45 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25679	Mr Minister, you have noticed that several amendments have been tabled with the same objection by the SRS MPs, but the explanation you have given us, which is why you do not accept these amendments, says that this member and these chapters regulate the procedure at all. Article 20. The bill of law, you say, is prescribed jobs, not procedures. I know the procedure is Mrs. Comic's favorite term, although she has a beautiful synonym. Depending on the procedure, we believe that exactly what we are proposing is what is business. So we're just putting in charge here with certain organs, here's the institution, so the center and we're saying that we should consult these, or we're just giving them a consultative meaning. That's why I think you unfairly kicked out representatives of high school communities when it comes to this case the Centre for Professional Education and Adult Education, and in other members it was also about something else. It may have been better to explain it, I don't know, or to deal with this issue a little bit more on the Committee, but it may have adverse consequences on the curricula that will be adopted. You have seen that MPs who have come from education and how competently and think on the subject and give such amendments, so this is not a law where we have played politics, but we have made it possible for those who come and have great practice in education to improve the future work of all the educational institutions to which this law applies.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25680	Two minutes and 30 seconds were used from the time of the parliamentary group and it remained a minute and 15 seconds. Member of the 20th amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Lidija Dimitrijevic submitted to Article 20 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. The word is Lydia Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25681	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will repeat once again that, in general, the SRS Parliament Club opposes the establishment of these new institutions that we are talking about and the centres within them. The reason is already mentioned, too much administration. However, realizing that the government and the Ministry of Education will persist in their intentions, because they have a majority, and that there will still be their formation, it is our intention to improve the text of this law, as far as possible, as an opposition. That's how we submitted amendments to Article 20. This article refers to professional education and adult education. In point 4 of Article 1(4), it defines that the Institute for the Promotion of Education and Education, as part of the Centre for Expert Education of Adults, shall carry out professional tasks relating to the preparation of the programme of master and specialist education and their examinations. We have proposed an amendment to add words at the end of the text – with a preliminary opinion from representatives of community of secondary schools. Speaking of the previous amendment I submitted to this bill, I have already highlighted the need to consult communities of secondary schools. Not to repeat now what I have already said and what my colleagues have already spoken about, this time just stressing that these consultations are really necessary and when preparing the master and specialist education programmes and their exams, taking into account the need for professional training after completion of secondary education.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25682	National MP Goran Mihajlovic submitted to the 20th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Goran Mihajlović.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25683	Ladies and gentlemen, my amendment kind of adds to the amendments of my distinguished colleagues, Sladjan Myaljević, Milovan Radovanovic and Lidija Dimitrijevic, and relates to the work of the Centre for Professional Education and Education of Adults. In particular, Article 20 provides for the responsibilities of this centre, and point 5 of this centre says, among other things, that this centre should carry out the tasks relating to the preparation of the work of the curriculum and the education programme for the work and final exams, the training programmes and training programmes and examination programmes and the models of recognition of previously acquired knowledge and skills. In fact, we suggest adding one more sentence to all of this – with the previously obtained opinion of representatives of communities of secondary schools. The reason is simple. All links in the chain of education and education are in the interest of constantly improving and taking place in the best possible way, and it is certain that people who work directly in school practice are most invited to bring into education all the progress in the fields of science, technology and everyday life, because this area of professional education and adult education is very specific. As we know, one broad individualization of education is needed here, in order to adapt it to the pace and character of each student's personality, and one rationalization of school work is needed, both in space and in time, so we believe that in order to achieve these requirements, the people from direct practice, or from school practice, must be involved in the work of the Centre.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25684	Member of the 20th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marko Milenkovic. The word is Marko Milenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25685	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in front of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 20. Proposal for a law with the intention to regulate matter more precisely in the area of the Centre for Professional Education and Education, or the Institute for the Promotion of Education and Education. The amendment refers to the professional activities of this institution in the field of providing an expert evaluation of adult vocational education textbooks in the approval process and proposes that an opinion of representatives of secondary schools be obtained prior to the evaluation. Because who better to know what problems can arise in applying regulations than those who directly participate in teaching. If you get the opinion of several different representatives of professional schools, you will get the right picture of textbooks in the procedure. Of course, the Government does not need the opinion of the community of secondary schools, because the Government of the Republic of Serbia has experts, experts of incredible opportunities and unsuspecting abilities, from those who, after several nights of sleep on the aunt's couch, become millionaires, to those who cheat from election to election by our citizens, once free actions, many times new jobs, and in Kragujevac, both in Belgrade, and Nis and wherever they arrive. I wonder how you all know I'm thinking about Ministers Djelic and Dinkic, but also some other DS ministers. Finally, it is not the government's argument that the amendment is not accepted, because it refers to the procedure, not the work, because the amendment actually, by regulating the procedure, is closer to clarifying the affairs and their order that actually arises from the procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25686	The 20th amendment was submitted by MP Radica Jocic. Here you go, Mrs. Jocic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25687	On the proposal for a law in the section defining the tasks carried out by the Centre for Professional Education and Education of Adults, I submitted the amendment to Article 20(1) of the SRS Group. This point otherwise reads: "The Institute for the Promotion of Education and Education within the Centre for Professional Education and Education of Adults shall carry out professional tasks which, in particular, relate to the preparation of the national qualification framework for the level of secondary vocational education, specialist and master education and other forms of vocational education. ''At the end of the text, words are added: with previously obtained opinion of representatives of communities of secondary schools. The explanation is similar to that of previous amendments by colleagues from the SRS parliamentary club, since, of course, the staff with long-term experience in the education system that was good and gave excellent results can make the most of their contribution to the education of high-quality high school staff for certain profiles. I would agree with a colleague who, in the previous discussion, pointed out that it would be very difficult to implement the activities of the Centre for Professional Education and Adult Education, i.e. to direct citizens over the age of 15 who want to be educated towards such centres. They're just used to talking to schools about stuff like this, and I think we're gonna miss generations until we get used to these newspapers.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25688	The word is Mrs Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25689	Just to inform of the withdrawal of amendments that I have submitted to Article 59, with a correction, with thanks for finding a solution to the amendment submitted by the Committee with the work of all Members of the Committee on Education, Associates of the Ministry and Minister. This amendment to my withdrawal ceases to be the subject of debate in the procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25690	Member of the 20th amendment was submitted by MP Sladjan Mijaljevic, who has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25691	Dear President, I have submitted an amendment to add at the end of the text the words "with the previously obtained opinion of the representatives of the community of secondary schools" in Article 20, paragraph 9. The amendment proposes to amend that position of the proposed law because it is necessary to consult those who directly participate in the teaching process, because they know best what problems can arise in the application of what the regulations require. The explanation is – the amendment is not accepted because it refers to procedures, and in Article 20. The bill states business, not procedure. We find it irrelevant whether it's procedure or business. The opinion of those most directly involved in the teaching process should be consulted, as it is about improving quality and quantity, as well as the needs of all participants in the educational process. That way we get feedback, what it is that needs to be fixed or thrown out, as it is said, from the first hand in that education system.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25692	On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. MPs Zarko Korac, Nebojsa Rangelovic and Nenad Prokic together submitted the 21st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. The title above Articles 22 and 22 of the amendment was submitted by MP Igor Becic. Does anyone want a word? No National MPs Aleksandar Pejcic and Milica Vojic-Markovic submitted the title above Articles 22 and 22 of the amendment together. Does anyone want a word? No. The 22nd amendment was submitted by MP Radica Jocic. Does anyone want a word? Yes, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25693	In this amendment, I asked for point (1) of point (1) of Article 22(1) to be deleted. I do not think that this amendment should be specifically explained, as more colleagues from several parliamentary groups agreed that the Education and Educational Quality Assessment Institute should be abolished, so we only have to ask the minister to reconsider on this establishment, to reduce the little projected apparatus and funds provided for financing this institution direct and concrete education.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25694	Member of the 22nd amendment was submitted by MP Sladjan Mijaljevic. Here you go, Mr. Myalyevich.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25695	In Article 22(2), point (1), point (2) is deleted. The amendment proposes that the above-mentioned draft law be deleted because it is unclear in itself, so it is therefore inadmissible in practice. These proposed laws are crawling with some innovations and definitions, I guess under the pressure of these white-world educational mechanics. Terminations of achievements and standards, which cannot understand the explanation of most educational workers in Serbia really shouldn't stand in educational laws. This is about schools, not hotels. First you had to explain to the educators to adopt achievements and standards, to understand what they needed to achieve and standardize and introduce into the law, to make it clearer and faster.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25696	National MP Milovan Radovanovic submitted to the 22nd amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25697	Ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, provisions of Article 17. The draft law on the basis of the education and education system provides for the existence of an Institute for the Valuation of Quality of Education and Education. Article 22(2) of point (1) of point (3) states that the institution referred to in Article 1 of this Article shall carry out professional tasks which, in particular, relate to the preparation of specific standards of achievement in basic education and education and in general secondary and artistic education and education. Amendment of the SRS parliamentary group requires the removal of sub-point (3). Reason: it is not clear enough, it causes uncertainty and confusion and is therefore difficult to apply in practice.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25698	The 22nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Shami and Donka Banovic. The government and the Education Committee accepted this amendment and it became an integral part of the bill. Member of the 22nd amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. The 22nd amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Dimitrijevic. Here you go, Mrs. Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25699	The amendment we submitted to Article 22 was certainly to be accepted. This article refers to the Office for the Valuation of the Quality of Education and Education. Paragraph 3 of this Article defines that the abovementioned institution has three organisational units, namely: a standard centre, a test centre and a evaluation and research centre. By applying the amendment, we suggested that the institute be organized as a unique organisational continent instead of having three organisational units. The amendment has been submitted with the aim of reducing as much as possible the number of those who are scheduled to work in the office. I repeat that the position of the SRS is that investment in education really needs to be great. However, we believe that this much harmonisation of the administration is for quite other reasons, not for improving the quality of education. This bill provides for two councils, two institutes, each with three centres, with the provision in Article 22, paragraph 4, provided that an education and education agency may have other organisational units. It is also envisaged that, in addition to three centres, he may have other organisational units, Article 18, paragraph 3. We think this is too much and that's why this amendment has been submitted.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25700	The 22nd Amendment, with correction, was filed by MP Riza Halimi. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Education have adopted this amendment. The title above Article 23 of the amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. Mr. Arsic wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25701	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in Article 23, it is said: In order to carry out certain tasks from their activities, they are able to educate special expert committees and teams in the field of education and education or to engage research institutions, with the consent of the Ministry. In my amendment to Article 23, I deleted little of that commission and those experts, and when it comes to research institutions, I asked that only scientific research institutions, which are the founder of the Government, or the Republic, could do so. I don't know if the one who wrote the argument was careful enough to write something like this, but in an explanation that my amendment refuses to say that the amendment should not be accepted, because the solution given in the bill allows institutions to hire the most qualitative individuals. Mr. Minister, I can tell you that then ask your colleague Djelic to resign immediately. Because if our research institutions don't have the highest quality individuals experts, then the minister should resign. Be careful now he says -- including experts from research institutions. This ensures that the tasks of the Institute are done more efficiently, with less resources and with a quality professional service. Now, as far as quality professional service is concerned, we've discussed this a little bit, but now someone can explain to me how it's the cheapest and most efficient? Somebody try to explain it to me, because you know what, many research institutions are, not many, but all where the founder of the Republic of Serbia is on the budget are the Republic of Serbia. They have some of their own income, and it seems to me that these revenues would be much bigger, much more significant and budget-based contributions much smaller, as direct budget users, if our state institutions were to use these research institutions for certain projects, analysis, research, etc. However, one practice, unfortunately, exists in Serbia, was introduced by Mladjan Dinkic, which is that there are often various expert commissions and individuals involved, not to get a job done, ladies and gentlemen, but to get a job. They do some analysis, some study, some work, and they hand it over to a certain institution. All I can tell you is that it's Dinkic's favorite way of robbing the budget. Do something, hire 5-6 institutions, some private ones, or 10-15 individuals to run certain analyses of efficiency, cost-effectiveness, environmental consequences, everything else, and make those analyses, and they pay, and they get fat. It's just a problem when they come into that state body, which is never used for anything and ends up with something that the state has paid extremely dearly. Just because he's still in the government and you're with him, Mr. Obradovic, in the government, I'm asking what kind of committees are going to educate us, what individuals are going to do, and how much is that really going to cost the citizens of Serbia? I also believe that, if you have accepted this amendment, you should be grateful to your colleague from the Ministry of Science, because in a certain way it would provide funds for the work of its scientific research institutions, because unfortunately that there would be money left for the younger and for its projects, for its commissions and for its agencies, it was mostly cut off in the first place in the rebalancing of the agriculture budget, and secondly for scientific research.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25702	The 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? Mr. Savik.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25703	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to article 23 of this law. I note that this Article 23 applies to expert commissions. My amendment is - that this member of the law is deleted, in other words I believe, as well as the SRS, that expert commissions, at least in this sense and in the spirit of this law as you predicted, are not necessary. In fact, it's an exaggeration and over-the-counter administration anyway. I will remind you, although my colleagues have said this -- we have two councils, two institutions, centres, so we know that local self-government can also form its own centres, so we have school administrations, so we have a special secretariat for education in Vojvodina, just one army of officials that Serbia's budget will not be able to endure, especially in these conditions. It is said here that these expert commissions are working on certain professional affairs, but my opinion and my view of this is primarily that these commissions are being served - that some of their people are being provided with fees and that this is an ideal place for these fees to be assigned to some of their friends or some party-like people, simply that this is a place to launder money. Namely, this is too high. We know that ethnicity in Serbia, unfortunately, is what it is, the number of students always falls from year to year, is in decline anyway, and the number of these administrative bodies is growing. I simply believe that this amendment should be adopted and that such commissions, in the sense of this law, are not necessary to us.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25704	The 23rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Shami and Donka Banovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Shami and Donka Banovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 24 of the amendment was submitted by MP Goran Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25705	The amendment I submitted to Article 24 regulates the relationship between the National Educational Council, the Minister and the Institute. Namely, this member says that the institutions of Article 17 of this Act, which are responsible for preparing or participating in the preparation of sublegal acts brought by the National Educational Council or the Minister, are obliged to carry out these tasks and to deliver the prepared material to the Ministry within the time limit set by the minister. We suggest that this last sentence be deleted: "The process is initiated by the minister by delivering requests to the appropriate institution". In fact, we have nothing personal against Mr. Obradovic, but simply this sentence is in full collegiate with Articles 12, 13, 14, 15 and 16. It's a bill of law. In particular, in Article 12, it says - that National Education Council meetings are attended by a representative of the ministry, but without the right to decide. So, if he doesn't have the right to decide, then it's too high to stand this sentence to have the minister initiate the procedure by delivering requests to the appropriate office, because, as we have seen, the National Council is independent in its work and therefore we have proposed to delete this sentence from Article 24.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25706	Member of the 26th Amendment was submitted by MP Riza Halimi. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 26 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marko Milenkovic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, Mr. Milenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25707	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, a new draft law on the basis of an education and education system, with the exception of carrying out expert-pedagogical supervision, supporting development planning and ensuring quality of work, provides for equal rights and availability of education and education without discrimination. Unfortunately, a low standard of living in Serbia does not allow that. Furthermore, apart from democratically arranged institutions, as you say in the bill, I don't know a single one that isn't, but that doesn't matter now, you're talking about developing motivation for learning, and we all know that it's possible only by providing work in the future after finishing schooling. This government not only does not strengthen the economy and does not create new jobs, but it threatens people by losing their jobs. In this direction goes the proposal for this law, which threatens to leave a new system of education funding per student without a job from 15,000 to 20,000 educators. What's going on now? Instead of the new law and its objectives following the increase in the salary of educational workers, the law leads to fear of a technological surplus. If the law had also given rise to salary, then this law would have gained real meaning, then the minister, both the Ministry and the Government as serious institutions, would have shown a desire to correct the status of educational workers and to achieve the objectives of education and education. Of course, someone may say that in the circumstances of the financial crisis it is not possible, but it is also possible to take into account the pointless incomes of thousands and thousands of advisers, assistants across Serbia, from the government, local self-government, public enterprises and expensive black cars in which they drive.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25708	The People's MP, Olena Papuga, submitted to the 28th Amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 28th of the amendment was submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 29 of the amendment was submitted by Parliament MP Olena Papuga. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 29th Amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic, who wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25709	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to article 29 of this bill. My amendment refers to an act on a network of pre-school institutions and primary schools whose founder is a natural person. In my amendment, I predicted that anarchy could not be allowed in this area. However, units of local self-government, on whose territory preschools and primary schools are established, may still have some insight and some influence, at least in what sense and where these institutions will be established. We know that when it comes to preschool institutions, when it comes to the programme of preparation for the school that you provided for to go from six months to nine months, that this is also financed from the budget, and since one part of it, preschool institutions or preschool institutions are funding from the budget, therefore local self-government should have insight and interference in all of this. We know that, for example, these two preschool institutions that currently exist only in Belgrade, however, are not excluded, and that is likely to happen in other local self-governments, and other towns and cities of Serbia, and this amendment, which stands here in the context of the amendments, primarily refers to pre-school institutions whose activity is, among other things, preparing for children to go to school.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25710	The MPs Zlata Djeric and Aleksandra Ilic jointly submitted the 29th amendment. Mrs. Djeric wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25711	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, we have submitted an amendment to Article 29, where we are asking that, in the context of the financial possibilities of local self-government, we allow some part of the school network to be financed and we have accepted in fact that your reason for refusing the amendment, because we cannot be a little bit sensitive that you have accepted those key amendments, and that this problem is treated elsewhere in that law. So you've accepted those key amendments that primarily refer to talented children and that in practice it really shows that you've made the most of yourself involved in this problem in every way. It is something that serves this ministry honor, and what will be a further certainly problem, and that I want to give you a well-intentioned attention, first of all, of the system of education and education, is something that is subject to constant change. It is a process that is constantly changing, which is constantly being built up and upgraded. As such a requirement, as a living organism, to be followed, to be cherished, to be guarded, and what you yourself have found, it is that in this society insufficient interest is precisely for education, although several speakers rightly said it was the only real resource. What I told you in my first presentation, therefore, that you are the minister of the most powerful ministry, simply as if someone in society, or not, but someone in this society who has power, so I wonder if it's the power or power of power, it's not clear to me until the end, will answer the time, deliberately, that particular area keeps marginalized. When you look at this assembly's meeting, we'll be in charge of over 360 million. Not a single euro of it goes to the Ministry of Education, nor to that only resource that needs to build us, which should provide us with some future, which should be a guarantee of some of our futures, and it has no connection to this minister, nor to this ministry, but to the entire process of education that is the most expensive commodity in the world. We love to declare how we support it, how we understand it, how we think it, but in practice this ministry won't, here, just on this one point of the agenda, prove to you, get one single dinar. Unfortunately, everything goes right under the paw and under the hat of one single minister, Mr Dinkic, who will make it very skillfully deployed and probably, I hope that at least part of it will be those actions for the citizens. What I want to say as an authorised promoter, not only about this amendment, but in general about the question of education, and what I want to draw the minister's attention to as a problem, certainly you will have to make this law that is fundamental, I insist on it, not only on the roof law, but on which many other laws and sublegal acts that need to be further governed by this living matter, to modernize it, that it will always be in the course of life and what life is doing, and certainly you will have something that Mr. Micunović's discussion today has seen, and that is to return to some old values that we have several times, in order for the world to start always from some new political furniture, we have persecuted. As we have returned to the assessment of governance, you will also have to return to stimulating educational workers for exceptional quality, financial stimulation of educational workers for exceptional quality in work or achievement in work. And that used to be present and that once gave fantastic results. What I think you should pay attention to, it certainly needs to be done as soon as possible and as soon as possible to pass a law on teaching exercises. It is something without which the education of modern teachers cannot function fully. Schools are very important to us, but essentially the very science of education and technology education, from its professional point of view, we are not dealing with enough. What you will also have to consider as a priority within your ministry, which is not only within your ministry, but several ministries, if we really want the system of education to be a fundamental system of society at all, and he is the only one who can be, that is, that is to say finally, without any false democracy, and that is to say, we create one of our views and create one social attitude towards one terrible monster, whose consequences we have not yet faced enough, nor have we dealt with them, and these are the exits of minors in the nights of 11 and beyond, or until the early morning hours. In my earlier presentation on the Law on Associations, I said that all are serious European countries, and today, European standards, European values, have been very much mentioned here, and that is exactly what they sanctioned if they wanted this system to work. So these systems are tied up, several ministries are supposed to be involved, not only is your goodwill enough, the Ministry of Local Self-Government needs the Ministry of Health mandatory, because there are several problems that arise in general as a consequence of education, and there are also the treatment of some other ministries. I'll talk more about it tomorrow when we talk about textbooks. So that's something you're going to have to pay attention to if you really want, and I see that you have a good will, that you're dealing with education in one responsible way, certainly to pay attention and see how these things can be solved by legal, sublegal solutions, by a joint campaign of several ministries, really as problems solved. It's not good when we have a social problem just a little bit of a scratch, we're flirting with it a little bit, and then, of course, we don't solve it until the end, and it stays or becomes an even bigger problem than it was. We had some good habits or some good steps in earlier educational practice today, when Mr. Micunović talked about it, about the fluids of democracy, the student parliament, I have to remind him that I was a student and that at my time when I was a student, when I was a young educator and at that time the students were present everywhere, their representatives, and precisely in this number of two students, on teaching councils, on class councils and so on. It was all decided with them and with them, and then with us, so it was then called self-government socialism, so I'm afraid that in fact there was only a renaming of the concepts, which Adam Mihnik would say, we often only rename reality, and that the content remained the same. I don't dispute his quality, I like that he's recognized today. What is recognised today is that education is becoming expensive and inaccessible to those who can give the most, I think that we agree here and that, as some more serious states, we have to invest differently in this, that you as a minister, I am personally telling you to do so in the government for a better media campaign right now in this ministry. There are good steps, you've made good steps, they're not all implemented to the end, but the government needs to stop for education to be in the first place, not that the important things that happen in education go almost undetected. The media publishes what's being served from some office or from some culinary circles. So you must first win that battle you within your ruling coalition. What is the ministry's task and what should be further certainly seen as your mission, the school must be made attractive. What I've been telling you about, and what has its medical explanation, exactly the night hours of a minor on the streets, in fact, the school no longer makes it attractive or prestigious, makes it such a street. This has done little good, and it would be good to have someone in the ministry seriously deal with the consequences that society has brought or brought about such phenomena. That's not immeasurable. The rise in drug abuse, the increase in juvenile delinquency, the increase in violence in certain ages, the increase in domestic violence, and so on, are all things that can be examined and that would show us a lot and that would determine us in later steps. Because I'm going to go back again and I'm going to finish my discussion tonight on this amendment, so this is the system and this needs to remain a system and this is the first system, education, and education and education are the first system of all other systems. If we collapse this system, we will not build any other system. When Edmondo de Amicis wrote in his novel “Heart ” to encourage his son to support the school, he said:“ You are a soldier of the great army, your class is your squad, your classroom is your battlefield, and victory is the sanctification of mankind. ” In the name of that, we have to keep this system healthy, as much as we can.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25712	Just tell me was it from the time of the parliamentary group or did you use part of it as an authorised representative? First as authorized, and this second part of the time group. The 29th amendment was submitted by MP Marko Milenkovic to the government and the Education Committee accepted the amendment and became an integral part of the bill. The 29th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Shami and Aleksandar Pejcic. Mr. Pejcic wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25713	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Minister, namely, me and my colleague, Mr. Zoran Shami, have tabled an amendment to Article 29. In Section 8, we propose that the network of the facility be deployed by the National Council. In fact, through the form of our amendment, we wanted to change this concept of the law on the fundamentals of the education system. It is also clear to us that you have explained this concept, and in this sense we wanted to give a little more authority to the advice, to the National Council on Education and to the Council on Adult Education. Since a large number of amendments have been written by the DSS in this sense, we will give up further than these amendments whenever the National Council and the Educational Tips are mentioned.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25714	The amendment of Ms Lidija Dimitrijevic to Article 30. The government and the Education Committee accepted it, so it became an integral part of the bill. The 31st Amendment was submitted by Jelena Budimirovic. Does anyone want a word? Mrs. Budimirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25715	On behalf of the Progressive Group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 31(2), and the amended position 2 would read: "The institution can carry out its work outside the seat, i.e. in a second facility, by organising a competent separate department, if the separate department meets the conditions set out in Article 30(3) of this Act, with the consent of the Ministry." We have provided for an amendment only a more precise solution, because we believe that at the moment of the formation of the separate department, next to the institution, and the separate department must meet the conditions laid down in Article 30, which are prescribed space, equipment, teaching means, hygiene and technical conditions, etc. For example, if the institution works in Belgrade and meets the conditions laid down by law, and the separate department is formed, say, in Sremska Mitrovica, does this mean that it does not have to meet the conditions and that we will know that children in the separate department will have working conditions, i.e. prescribed space, equipment, teaching means, secured chemical-technical conditions? In an explanation of the non-acceptance of my amendment, the government called for Article 32(2). The proposal for a law, which provides for a request for verification to be submitted when work is organised in a separate department in the establishment. If you have provided for this in Article 32(2) and clearly and precisely stated that the request for verification is submitted when the work in the separate department is organised, why could such a language formulation not stand in Article 31? We do not propose, by amendment, a fundamental change in attitude 2. So I suggest you adopt my amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25716	Thank you, Miss Budimirovic. The 33rd amendment was submitted by MP Radica Jocic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25717	In the part of the bill that regulates the extended work of the institution, I submitted an amendment to the SRS parliamentary group that I asked to be deleted in Article 33(7). Otherwise, paragraph 7 reads: “The decision to extend the activity of an institution the founder of which is the Republic of Serbia, an autonomous province or units of local self-government also includes an income plan which will also be implemented for the implementation of that activity, the way students and employees are hired and the means of making use of the funds achieved, in accordance with the rules governing the budgetary system.” The amendment proposes to delete that position of the bill, because if these funds are used in accordance with the proposed position, there is practically nothing left, because that position of the bill acts in a democratic way to achieve the extended activity of the institution. The explanation for which the amendment is rejected says: ''Amendman should not be accepted because he is a member of 156. Article 3 The draft law stipulates that the achievement of the institution's income, the recording and use of funds on the basis of other transactions shall be carried out in accordance with the rules governing the budgetary system. Also, this attitude regulates the way students and employees are hired. ''I think, Mr. Minister, that if you sincerely want our institutions to have extended activity, you need to be much more careful to arrange this area, in order to stimulate both students and teachers to take these activities seriously and responsibly, and that school has some benefit, if not in the right sense, and at least as an incentive for further work. Speaking of stimuli, I would agree with my colleague Đeric that, as much as you resist it, the time will come when you or any other minister of education will become clear that you will have to financially make a difference between educators who invest in themselves and achieve extraordinary results with children and those who leave work from now on to pension for the same salary as they mentioned earlier.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25718	National MP Goran Mihajlovic submitted to the 35th amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25719	Article 35 refers to the ban on the work of school institutions and, such as the normal work of school institutions, controls certain inspections, which report to the ministry. In Article 2, paragraph 2 provides that an institution established by the Republic of Serbia, the AP or the unit of local self-government may be banned in the event that it does not meet any of the criteria necessary for the normal operation of the institution. We suggest that you do not go to such drastic and extreme measures, because the ban is the ultimate measure and should do everything possible to avoid it. In this context, we suggest that one sentence be put in place - that the Ministry first determines the reasons for not fulfilling the tasks of the authority referred to in Article 1, and then adopts one of the intended criminal provisions. Let's take a simple example, maybe some school facility doesn't have a lab, to fix that flaw, it's necessary to have a certain material, i.e. money to open the lab, so it would be unfair to close that school facility if that's the only reason. Or, let's say, the inspection authority can give an unreal short period of time to remove any deficiencies, so if the school doesn't get to remove it again, it could be in danger of being shut down. Or there may also be an end situation for the inspection body to make the wrong decision and to order the institution to be closed on the basis of the wrong information. We believe that this sentence should be incorporated unconditionally - that, before the decision to suspend the work of the Institute, the Ministry determines the reason for the failure to fulfil a specific inspection body's task.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25720	National MP Ljiljana Miladanovic submitted an amendment to Article 35, which the government and the Education Committee accepted, and became an integral part of the bill. Members of the 37th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Shami and Donka Banovic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, Mrs. Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25721	Article 37 discusses how a foreign institution is established. It is also the title above the 37 - sided institution. A foreign country, a foreign legal person or a natural person may establish an institution, and in order to achieve a training and education programme. These programmes of education and education have not been passed under this law. These programmes are accredited in the country of origin, either legal or physical. This Article states that an authorisation for opening shall be granted if the conditions laid down in Article 30 are met. If you look at Article 30, this is about the conditions for establishing, starting and performing the activities of institutions. However, we propose to supplement this article by saying - not only that the conditions laid down in Article 30 of this Law are met, but also Articles 3 and 4. Let me remind you, Article 3 speaks about the general principles of the education system, and Article 4 speaks very closely about the objectives of education and education in the Republic of Serbia. We think it would be good if these basic conditions for the establishment were not met, but that these programmes, which are accredited in another country, must be compared either to the general principles and objectives of education in that country with the general principles and objectives of education in Serbia, which this law speaks of.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25722	The title above Articles 38 and 38 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sladjan Mijaljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25723	The title above Article 38 and Article 38 are deleted. The amendment proposes to delete that member of the bill because the programmes of alleged professional training offered by these centres are of no benefit, especially in secondary schools. This article is about excessive and unnecessary decentralisation and regionalisation. The professional public, i.e. those most directly involved in the education system, are decidently against regional centres, especially when they are taught to implement socio-economic methods and techniques at these workshops for vocational training. Perhaps educators do not have the courage to tell you how much they disagree with certain techniques and methods, which tend from the time of the famous Minister Gaša Knezevic, who remained remembered for the famous sentence - what if children were playing with the ball and why not the panties. It seems to me that this minister is much more serious, and I therefore hope that the Sorosovic innovations will be expelled from our education.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25724	National MP Milovan Radovanovic submitted to the 41st amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25725	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of Parliament, provisions of Article 41. The draft law establishing a system of education and training provides for the existence of autonomy of an institution, which implies the right to adopt statutes, education and education programmes, the adoption of a professional training plan, the selection of employees, the organisation of an internal organisation, etc. The amendment of the SRS parliamentary group provides for the removal of the right to adopt a programme of education and training under point 1) because it is unclear. There is a uncertainty as to which education and education programme is thought, especially as the termological "school programme" is spoken and mentioned in Article 76 of this proposal on the basis of which basic and secondary education and education are achieved. This is why there is confusion in terms of education and education programmes. The government of the Republic of Serbia did not accept the amendment, which I submitted in the name of the SRS parliamentary group, for a reason and meaningfully in response, that this is a generic concept of education and education programmes, such as pre-school, school, or educational programmes, which are brought by the authorities of each institution. However, regardless of the purpose of the government's response and the non-acceptance of this amendment, it remains my thinking as the applicant of the amendment that there is uncertainty and confusion both in relation to the importance of the concept itself and in terms of the term "school programme" mentioned in different versions, I mean terms and termological meanings.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25726	The 42nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Shami, Donka Banovic, Aleksandar Pejcic and Milica Vojic-Markovic. National MP Momir Markovic submitted to the 44th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Ombudsman submitted to Article 44 of the amendment. The government and the Education Committee accepted the amendment, so it became an integral part of the bill. The 45th Amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic, who wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25727	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 45. A bill of this law, with the idea of erasing the sixth position of this member. The whole concept of this law revolves around Articles 44 and 45, and I also said in principle that it was obvious that the dominant role in writing and forming this law was played by psychologists and educators. It can be concluded that one of the bad things about this law is that. This member of the law speaks of a ban on violence, abuse and neglect, and there is nothing disputed about it. However, practice has shown that as many stories of violence, abuse, and similar things as possible. Here, in a member of this law, or attitude 6, which I have suggested to delete, it stands - for mental violence is considered behavior that leads to the current or permanent threat to mental and emotional health and dignity of the child, student or employee. And the question is, who's the one who's going to evaluate and make a credible assessment when all this happened and where's the limit when there's an injury, and where's the limit when there's an abuse? Such a member, as it stands here in the law, and how it can lead to various abuses, where someone, whether it is a student, an employee, a teacher or anyone else, can be accused without any need and without any argument on the basis of the discretionary rights of the one who assesses when these items came from this article of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25728	Members of the 46th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zarko Korać, Nebojsa Rangelovic and Nenad Prokic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 46th Amendment was jointly submitted by Jon Magda, Dragomir Cimeša and Miodrag Stojilovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Shami and Donka Banovic. Mrs. Banovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25729	Article 48 discusses ensuring the quality of the work of the institution and commending this segment in law, not only this, but also some other members who talk about raising the quality of the work of the institution and ensuring the quality of those institutions. This intervention, as far as this amendment is concerned, practically refers to a different formulaation of the work, for example, Article 2. In this regard, point 2 reads: 'In order to ensure the quality of work in the institution, the achievement of the objectives and standards of achievement, education and education programmes and the development plan' are valued. We propose to put a point there, while the further part of the sentence, which is said in the proposal - and the pleasures of students and parents, or guardians of children and students, is deleted. It's clear to me here from the English background of this, so it's a pupil or a student and a parent satisfaction. But in Serbian it should then - pleasures provided by students and parents, not to remain this way. In the amendment, we suggested that this be a new sentence and that it read: The quality of work in the institution must be taken into account by students and parents, or guardians. We think this sentence is a better explanation of what you were about to say.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25730	Members of the 48th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandar Pejcic and Milica Vojic-Markovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 50 of the amendment was submitted by Parliament MP Olena Papuga. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Zoran Shami, Donka Banović, Aleksandar Pejcic and Milica Vojic-Markovic submitted to the 54th amendment. Mr. Pejcic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25731	In fact, an extremely large debate took place over this amendment to article 54. Many colleagues have criticised this proposal. The tripartite proposal -- three from the teaching council, three from the parents' council and three from the local self-government. In fact, there have been many irregularities for these reasons, in principle, I have cited one example, I will state it later, but first I will explain what our request is. We suggest, for normal reasons, that this example was not a good one, that it be a five-man relationship from a teaching council, two from a parent's board and two from a local self-government. You also suggested that in schools for primary adult education, so-called In the evening school, there are seven members of the school board. There's logic here. You have suggested that there are no representatives of parents for a simple reason, because the school has accelerated schooling, for one school year two end, so that every two years parents change, there is logic, but we also suggest that there be parity again - five from the teaching council and two from the local self-government. Namely, now to refer to the example I wanted to make earlier. The assistant's here for inspection, that's good. Namely, there was a problem in Grdelica, OŠ "Desanka Maksimovic". Mrs. Stana Stankovic, director of the school, was replaced while she was on sick leave, although she neatly delivered the evidence to the inspector, Mr. Mitrovica, who made a record and sent it to you in the ministry. I'm sorry the minister isn't here to ask him a question, but I'd like him to answer me in writing, if he can't right now, which is why Mr. Minister hasn't answered the inspector's report in 15 days? I don't know the facts. The fact is, the director was replaced for no reason, while she was on sick leave. She was in the hospital, she had pneumonia. So that things like this wouldn't happen, we suggested this proposal. So five from the teaching council, for the simple reason that we want to encourage the profession, that the profession decides on many of the important things that happened at school. The most important problem in the school that's been going on is the selection of directors. The people who are from school certainly know who is the best candidate to apply for director and they will choose him, because they will have most of the school board and that has led us to submit this amendment. Here, Minister. I will also address this question to him, and I will use the time of the parliamentary group, to give us an adequate answer, since there is also his assistant for inspection supervision. Mr. Minister, it's about Desanka Maksimovic's school. That's what I was talking about. It's not an example like colleagues' instructions, it's a specific case. Namely, while the principal was on leave, the school board replaced her, although Inspector Mitrovica made a quality record and sent you to the ministry. I won't be deluded, and I won't doubt that you did it on purpose, but you should have answered that report in 15 days, the director wouldn't have been replaced. Even one boastful behavior of members of the school board, who threatened to resign, they would kick her out of school and not deploy her to a place that was already available. If you can't answer me now, I expect an answer in writing to please the public of Leskovec.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25732	National MPs Lasslo Varga, Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac, Arpad Fremond, Esad Djudjevic and Bajram Omeragic submitted to the 54th amendment. Representatives of the Proposer and the Committee on Education have adopted this amendment. The 54th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Colic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Miletic Mihajlovic. The government and the Education Committee accepted this amendment, so it became an integral part of the bill. Member of the 57th Amendment was submitted by MP Jorgovanka Tabakovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Mr. Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25733	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, here I am very interested in which one of these gentlemen sitting next to the minister wrote this bill. I can't understand that in his stubbornness he goes into the right extremes and doesn't let anything change in that law. It seems to me that these amendments that have been accepted to severe hardships have been accepted. In Article 57 of the bill, it states that all decisions taken by the school board must be made by an absolute majority, i.e. that it votes more than half of the total number of members of the school board. National MP Jorvanka Tabakovic asked to limit it to points 1) to 6), because I would like to ask this gentleman or the lady how many votes it takes to pass this law: whether a minimum of 126 MPs are needed or whether a majority will vote. As far as I'm aware of the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure, one majority is enough. However, it is said in the explanation -- the amendment should not be accepted because there is no difference between the types of decisions. So, the constitution predicts that for the government alone, the budget must be an absolute majority, but when it comes to the extended work of the school, it requires an absolute majority on the school board. About the rights and obligations of the students? Well, gentlemen, those rights and obligations have been defined by this law. Decision on the discharge of the Director; if you accept this amendment in point 6) of that Member, it shall remain that the Director shall choose more than half of the total number of members of the school board. The same condition is needed for its resolution. I don't think anyone even knows administrative law here. Watch this, for the rights of employees, I think it's regulated by the Labour Act, and it seems to me that someone in some of the following reasons has called for this Labour Act and that it's really obvious that it shows he doesn't know our legislation at all. So I think you should give up on this stubbornness. To correct it, it seems to me that someone was blinking when I said that the school board could be formed even if there were five members. Search your ministry's opinion and you will find that the school board can be formed with five members of the school board, provided that from each group, whether of the three employees, whether of the three parent councils, whether of the three proposed by local self-government, at least one are on the school board. It's your interpretation, your ministry, and if you want to work in that ministry, at least learn and know those decisions and sublegal acts that you make.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25734	On the basis of Article 142(5), the Committee on Education submitted an amendment adopted by the proposing representative to Article 57. Members of the 57th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Shami and Aleksandar Pejicic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Dragoljub Micunovic submitted an amendment on 18 July 2009 suggesting that a new member be added after article 57. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 59th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zarko Korac, Nebojsa Rangelovic and Nenad Prokic. No one wants a word. The 59th Amendment was submitted by MP Radica Jocic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, Mrs. Jocic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25735	On the draft law in the part where school management is regulated, i.e. in the part of the school's director, I filed on behalf of the SRS Group an amendment to Article 59, paragraph 5, which I asked for "these types of school and areas of work" to be deleted. Paragraph 5 of Article 59 otherwise reads: ''The duties of the school director may be carried out by a person who has the appropriate education under Article 8(2) of this Law for teachers and types of school and field of work, for educators and psychologists, work permit, training and examinations for the director of the institution and at least five years of work in the institutions in the field of education and education, after having obtained the appropriate education. ''The amendment proposes to delete these words because there is discrimination against persons who perform educational work at a professional school, and their acquired education falls within the field of work that does not match the field of work in which they work. The literal application of those words makes it impossible, for example. graduates of electrical engineering to perform the duties of directors in machine schools, while teachers of general education can perform the duties of directors in all primary schools, high schools, art and secondary vocational schools, regardless of the field of work. I believe that after many years of working in education and education, if they meet other conditions, i.e. They have passed the exam for the director and others, it should also be possible for these persons to compete equally for the director's posts, so that, if there are no other interested candidates, they prove themselves in this field, i.e. as executives.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25736	On the basis of Article 142, the amendment to Article 59 was submitted by the Education Committee. The applicant's representative accepted this amendment. The 59th Amendment with correction was submitted by MP Jadranka Jovisic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25737	Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen, in agreement with the Committee on Education and the Minister of Content of my amendment has become an integral part of the amendment tabled by the Committee on Education, and in that sense I withdraw my amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25738	Gordana Comic withdrew the amendment to article 59 and explained the reasons. The 59th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Shami, Aleksandar Pejcic and Donka Banovic. Mr. Pejcic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25739	I'm interested in one thing, in this amendment, which is older, chicken or egg, or egg or chicken. Since Article 59 states: ''The elected Director who does not have the exam for the Director is required to pass it within one year of the date of entry into office. ''Article 174 states: ''The director of the institution, elected until the date of entry into force of the law, shall be required to submit an examination for the Director within three years of the date of adoption of the sublegal act referred to in Article 59 of this Act. I'm looking for an overexplanation - is it article 59 or Article 174? It would be nice for you to explain, Mr. Secretary. There's legal repercussion here, so go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25740	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25741	Thanks for asking. A possible overexplanation would be that one was given a year and the other over two years, so that they would have a time opportunity for everyone to pass and get a license.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25742	The 60th Amendment, with correction, was jointly submitted by MPs Laslo Varga, Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac, Arpad Fremond, Esad Djudjevic and Bajram Omeragic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Education have adopted this amendment. Members of the 60th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Shami and Aleksandar Pejicic. Mr. Pejcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25743	We have submitted an amendment to amend and amend Article 60 of Section 2 and reads: ''The opinions of the Council of Item 1 shall be adopted at a special session attended by all members of the relevant council, with the right to vote being held by those who are in a working relationship for at least six months. (I'll explain later and for what. ) The statement of opinion is made by a secret vote. ''In fact, there's a possibility that when a contract is concluded at the beginning of the year that the director might be hiding a job, he's keeping a job for himself when he's abdicating from the director's post. In this regard, he can work on the job of a trainee, a worker who can vote in favour of the director under the directive. We therefore propose that within six months, whoever receives the teacher's board have the right to vote on some important decisions. I think the amendment is logical and it needs to be accepted, because it improves the situation at school and nothing else.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25744	Members of the 60th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Jon Magda, Dragomir Cimeša, Miodrag Stoilovic and Aleksandar Jankovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 60th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Donka Banović and Milica Vojic-Markovic. Mrs. Banovic wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25745	Article 60 speaks about the procedure or procedure of electing the director of the institution, whether it is preschool, primary school or high school. When this whole procedure begins and the school board decides in the end. However, the larger institutions, whether it's teacherly larger or someone else, are pedagogicalally larger, give their opinion. In practice, it is very common for the school board to take an opinion into account, but the school board does not have to act in that opinion, so it is all understood. However, we propose that a new position be added here, where it is said - when the election of the directors does not accept the opinion of an appropriate higher institution, the managing authority is obliged to give written explanations to the decision made. Very often, the managing authority makes a decision that is completely different from the proposal or opinion higher, so if nothing, then the managing authority is obliged to notify the larger one in writing and to specify exactly how a candidate is elected and why the other one is not. I think this amendment could have been accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25746	The 60th Amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. Here you go, Mr. Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25747	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have finally reached this controversial amendment that I have submitted to Article 60. Someone convinced the minister that I asked to take the whole attitude 8. The bill is deleted. However, the following is the fact, the text, which reads - the instrument of refusal of consent, if the procedure finds that the decision has not been made in accordance with the law, according to my amendment, which I have submitted, that part of the text should remain. The ministry and minister have the right to oversee the work of the institutions and their authorities. However, part of the text I asked for to be deleted reads - "or by bringing it into question the uninterrupted performance of the institution". It is said in the explanation that it is the discretionary right of the minister. Then it would be better if a contest were to be called that the minister would know in advance who the candidates were for the director, to say this one can, this one can't, make a list of those who the minister accepts and get the job done like that. Or the minister said - what if the employees don't support the school board's decision. They propose one, and the school board sets up an eighth. I guess that's what the school board's purpose is. Where does the school board have to listen to the staff at the facility? The staff of the institution have the right to give their views on the candidates. If you think theirs should be more significant, then you should have told them that they're proposing who they're going to choose from the school board, the school board to reject the proposal or accept it, and that's where the story is over. However, with such ideology, Minister, it seems to me that you are introducing self-management into institutions, and self-government involves the dictatorship of proletariats, and yet this involves a single-party system. Thank God, we're not in that weather anymore, and I hope you've had time to think about my amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25748	Members of the 61st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zarko Korac, Nebojsa Rangelovic and Nenad Prokic. The government and the Education Committee accepted this amendment, so it became an integral part of the bill. Member of the 62nd Amendment was submitted by MP Stefan Zankov. Does anyone want a word? Mr. Arsic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25749	Article 62 concerns the responsibility of the director of the institution. Now in his 62nd colleague Stefan Zankov asked that the director of the institution not act on the organisation and systematization of jobs, but to propose this to the school board, or the authority of the administration. Be careful now what explanation we have: ''Amandman should not be accepted, because he is a member of 62. The draft law prescribed that the Director adopts an act on the organisation and systemisation of the institution and cannot propose it to the Authority of Administration. '" Mr. Minister, I would ask you to catch your law nicely, to order it well, and to dispel those ignorants around you, because it's a direct explanation that they wrote contrary to Article 57. The draft law, which in paragraph 1, states: the managing authority shall adopt statutes, rules of conduct in the institution and other general acts and give consent to an act on the organisation and systemisation of transactions. Now who wrote that argument. I'm reading your law. In order to make someone smarter, he added the following to the explanation, the act on the organisation and systematization of jobs under the Labour Act is in the power of the director. Somebody show me where it is. That's what I'd like to see. I'd like to see that act proposed by the director. Well, what's true of school institutions, this Labour Act that you're referring to, it's probably true of some other public enterprises. As far as I know, often the founder gives consent to the statutes, gives consent to the board of directors, gives consent to the systematization of jobs. Don't make it up to write things in laws that don't say. If you want to lie, lie so you don't get caught. Now, with these arguments, you're putting us on the table, and the minister must have been red for a long time because of the arguments that the ignorant have written.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25750	Mr. Arsic, the co-workers of Mr. Minister are in no position to answer your questions. What you said, and it's about their professional personality, with the tendency to degrade them, is wrong. We're associates in one very important job, everyone does their job, and I really ask you not to qualify people who do their job very correctly and professionally in this way. Here you go, Mr. Beard.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25751	I would ask my colleague Arsic not to fall into the fire and use those words that are not appropriate, I think, the atmosphere that exists during the debate on the education and education system law. We have no intention of agreeing, because everything that's going on last Saturday, today and tomorrow, is going to happen in front of the public. If you don't believe what it says and if you claim that we're wrong, you can look for further explanations with us at the Ministry or look at the law, and then at one of the next sessions you say, Minister, the explanation you gave was not true, because I showed, saw, determined something like that. Please, the sentence you said, if you intend to lie, is not appropriate to this home or the atmosphere that exists during the debate on this law. It's your right. I don't think you were right when you spoke that way.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25752	National MP Nikola Savic submitted to the 62nd amendment. Here you go, Mr. Saviæ.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25753	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 62. Proposal for a law establishing a system of education and education. Before that, just one little well-intentioned suggestion to Mr. Secretary. Mr. Obradovic, don't mind Mr. Arsic very much, he's straying into this area, this isn't his area. It also says that all parties' amendments have not adopted any SNS amendments. A man strayed here and simply returned to the amendment. This Article 62 speaks of the powers and responsibilities of the Director. Namely, one of the first items describing the responsibility and responsibility of the director is said to care for the performance in the performance and reputation of the institution. Of course, it is the director's task, if all this is achieved in the institution, its rating must be higher both in the local community and in the employees themselves. But believe that in practice, there are often cases that neither the director himself, in addition to the best will, the best organizational abilities and the greatest effort, is able to accomplish all of this, because there is something that is not very dependent on him. It's called success. Success, first of all, involves success, and the success of the school is measured by success and often happens in practice that individual teachers, teachers from individual classes, give disproportionately large numbers of weak grades in relation to their colleagues in the same school and in the same class, or in relation to their colleagues in other schools in the same class. It's one of the things that spoils school's success and shows that the headmaster, or the school manager, is not successful. Simply, here I have proposed this amendment that in such cases the Director may propose to the Minister, and be careful, you have given an explanation that I agree that the Director has mechanisms based on which he can stop working and withdraw his license from a particular teacher. Believe me, it's a very sensitive substance that is in practice very difficult to apply. Imagine the director who is one year ahead of retirement or waiting for re-election, etc., so he doesn't want to spoil his position because of it. Exactly if you were washing your hands or withdrawing from certain things, like when it comes to choosing a school director, I can say hello, I think that right here, no one should be able to resolve themselves without the consent of the minister to avoid abuse. Because it may also be in the opposite direction of abuse, one of the directors may have some bad relationships or something personal against one of the teachers and that these powers, which this law also gives him, abuses and relieves a man. These are not frequent cases in practice, there is not some big job that would take time for the minister and think again, Mr. Obradovic, and it would be good for the whole process of education to accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25754	You've wasted your time with the MPs' group, Mr. Saviæ, and you have this second time as a representative. Replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25755	I can really understand Mr. Minister for some of the things he said to me. I had no intention of insulting someone from the ranks of his employees who were his associates here. I'm not falling into fire, but I'm not letting anyone insult the intelligence of the MPs. Whether I went astray or not, don't let anyone who isn't competent talk to me about it, because it seems to me that he's the one who went astray. Because to say something like that, and then he claims that no amendments to the Serbian Progressive Party's MPs were accepted, let him take and read the argument a little, and he will see that the amendment submitted by the SNS to article 35 has been accepted. I'm sorry that we don't fit into the concept of the Ministry, obviously we have different views on this matter, so the amendment is no longer accepted. This proves to me, if someone calls on the number of amendments accepted, often that someone may be working secretly with some of the structures that are in power. Now let's count ourselves. Otherwise, whoever strayed, we'll see it in the next election, as we saw in the elections and in Zemun, and in Voždovac, we'll see in some of the next ones, so we'll see who's wandering, who's straying, and who's where's the place.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25756	He has the word Mr. Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25757	If you'll excuse me, I thought I was right to say there's no need for hard words. Here is the Labour Act, “St. the RS messenger", on 15 March 2005, the establishment of a working relationship, Article 24, working relationship, etc., tasks established by law, i.e. the Regulation on organisation and systematisation, in the text below. The Regulation lays down the organisational parts of the employer, type of business, type and degree of professional training and specific conditions for the work on those tasks. The Regulation shall be adopted by the Director, i.e. the Entrepreneur.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25758	Parliamentarians Zoran Shami, Donka Banovic and Aleksandar Pejcic submitted together to the 63rd amendment. Mrs. Banovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25759	Article 63, or the title above Article 63, shall be the termination of the Director's office. We had an intervention here in the first sentence of Article 2. The proposal states – the managing authority shall resolve the director of the institution, if established, and some infringements shall be established at 10 points. Our proposal is that the word "resolve" is a little tempered and that the use of the word "can be resolved by the Director". Why? Because it solves it pretty tight. When fellow Pejcic spoke about proposing that the school board go 5, 2, not three plus three as proposed, he actually showed our wish that politics should be moved a little bit more from school and school committees. I know from practice that whenever you have local elections that aren't regular, so not every four years, but you have early local elections, then people in local self-government give themselves the right to resolve school committees before their mandate expires, and then you have a phenomenon that the school board that has been sitting for two years or is in that system, and all of that to get rid of the director. Unfortunately, the directorial function is always attractive in Serbia, especially in smaller places, including the school's director, who has a lot of work and a lot of obligations. It's not much of a function, and it's paid badly. That's why I think if this member stays engaged like this, he could be the subject of abuse and be used for, say, suggestions to resolve the director. If you look at point 9), it says – the managing authority shall authorise the director of the institution if it has been established that the Director has not ensured that a timely and accurate entry and maintenance of an up-to-date database of the institution is carried out under the single information system of education. I mean, if you were to apply this point to school principals right now, it could probably be solved by 80% of the directors of the institutions. Which means timeless, it's relative. The director may consider that he has provided timely data entry within three months, and someone may consider that he should do so every week. Or, what does it mean that he vouches for the correct input? So, the data will be entered by someone who's in charge. E, what if the one who makes the wrong mistakes - again it is a reason that it can be proposed. There are some other points here that are the species that can be widely interpreted, and may be a cause for different abuses and problems to you, Minister. You explained it here in an explanation, and that is so, the minister's legal obligation to value within 15 days the reasons for the resolution, or there is the possibility that the minister refuses to give consent to such a decision, but it is really more complicated to live and work in the ministry.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25760	The 63rd amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. Do you want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25761	First, I'd like to speak to the Minister. If what he read from the Labour Act is true, I agree and accept my mistake. I ask the question of what is it going to be in Article 57(1) – that the managing authority gives its consent to an act on organisation and systematization of jobs? Then it is not necessary, then it is excessive – because what has been brought has been brought and no more consent. As regards Article 63, when it comes to the discharge of the Director-General-Government, the Director of the Institute shall, by order of the Educational Inspector within eight days of the day of receipt of the order, be authorised by the Director of the Institution. I agree, Mr. Minister, but you should have pointed out – if the circumstances set out in Article 63, point 63, point 63, and so on, then it is necessary and can be ordered by an educational inspector to order the school board to dismiss the director. There's this misunderstanding that exists here and it's not about anything else. All the time through all our amendments, we insist that the powers that the Ministry has are not taken away, but that there is no right to abuse these powers. So this is what it says - an educational inspector, for whatever reason, can order the authority to relieve the school director. Now whether someone is going to appeal to the Ministry or not, and how quickly the ministry will be in making that decision, or the Ministry will act in accordance with its powers and because someone has not acted on the orders of an educational inspector to disband the school board, that's the point. There's nothing else here. That's why I asked for more careful amendments to the opposition to be read.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25762	Members of the 65th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zarko Korac, Nebojsa Rangelovic and Nenad Prokic. The government and the Committee accepted the amendment and it became an integral part of the bill. The 65th amendment was submitted by MP Goran Mihajlovic, who wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25763	The explanation I will give for this amendment is very brief and logical. In fact, Article 65 provides for the possibility that the school institution, in accordance with the financial plan of work, may appoint an assistant director or appoint him head of school to its solution. As is known, the Assistant Director shall mainly carry out teaching activities, schedule schedules and other tasks in accordance with the school's needs. Article 4 says the assistant director also performs the work of teachers, educators and expert associates, in line with the director's solution. We suggest adding one new sentence, which would be item 5, and which would be - if the assistant director also performs the job of teachers, then the size of these jobs can be up to 20% of the prescribed norm for teachers. The reason is clear. So, if we want the assistant director to do a quality job as an assistant, then it's certain that in some way he'll suffer from teaching and students, and on the other hand, if he wants to do the teacher's job in quality, he'll suffer again because of the lack of time for the assistant's jobs, and that's why we suggested that new attitude 5. So we suggest that the amount of teaching work be up to 20%.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25764	The 68th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Shami, Donka Banovic and Aleksandar Pejcic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Mr. Nikola Savic, time of authorised representative.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25765	A colleague, Goran Mihajlovic, has submitted an amendment that he has now explained and where he predicted that the assistant director has up to 20% of the norm, if he is teaching at the same time. I really think that the minister should consider this amendment one more time, because we know that according to standards relating to school financing, very few schools in Serbia meet standards for deputy directors. First of all, it's big schools, it's schools for 40, and somewhere in 50 departments, and it's really big schools, and there's a huge range of these other organizational jobs, and for this very reason, in order to more specifically organize work in these schools, it's predicted that the assistant director's norm should be limited to a certain level. Here, counterpart Mihajlovic anticipated the amendment and suggested that it be 20%.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25766	Member of the 68th Amendment was submitted by MP Milisav Petronijevic. The government and the Education Committee accepted the amendment and it became an integral part of the bill. The 71st amendment with the correction was brought together by MPs Zarko Korac, Nebojsa Rangelovic and Nenad Prokic. On the basis of Article 148(2), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Legislative Committee has rejected this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 142, the amendment to Article 71 was submitted by the Education Committee. The applicant's representative accepted this amendment. The 72nd amendment was submitted by MP Radica Jocic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 72 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. The government and the Education Committee accepted the amendment and it became an integral part of the bill. The 77th amendment with the correction was brought together by MPs Gordana Rajkov and Snezana Stojanovic-Plasic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Education have adopted this amendment. The 79th amendment was filed by MP Riza Halimi. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Goran Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 84 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radica Jocic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the amendment to Article 91, was submitted by the Education Committee. The applicant's representative accepted this amendment. Parliamentarians Zoran Shami, Donka Banovic and Aleksandar Pejcic submitted to the 91st Amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 97 of the amendment was tabled by MP Milan Knezevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Parliamentarians Zoran Shami, Donka Banovic and Aleksandar Pejcic submitted together to Article 98 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 98 of the amendment was submitted by MP Jon Magda. The government and the Education Committee accepted this amendment and it became an integral part of the bill. Parliamentarians Gordana Rajkov and Snezana Stojanovic-Plasic submitted the amendment together to Article 98. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 100th Amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. The government and the Education Committee accepted this amendment and it became an integral part of the bill. The 100th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Shami, Donka Banovic, Aleksandar Pejcic and Milica Vojic-Markovic. The representatives of the proposings and the Committee on Education accepted the amendment and became an integral part of the bill. Members of the 101st Amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Babic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Mr. Granny, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25767	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the Prosperity Group, Serbia's SNS, I have tabled an amendment to Article 101. Proposal for a law establishing a system of education and education. I believe that education is one of the most important segments of our society, in which it is necessary to improve quality and modernise educational and educational work, as well as introduce new content of education and education programmes. It is necessary, and the only thing we can do with innovation is make the school system in Serbia more attractive. One of the models of the introduction of newspapers in education is by way of a tour and what we disagree on is that the review is not conducted in the last year of the visit, but once a year, as this amendment provides. Five years, as you predicted, and it's too long a period to carry out a review after that period. It is necessary to separate certain material and non-material means to see in the education. While accepting the fact that the full capacity of the viewing effects is seen after five years, it is necessary to monitor them, control them and do their evaluation every year. In the light of this proposal for a law, you stated that the provisions for viewing were made on the basis of positive experiences. I accept that fact, however, I would remind you of the regulations on the official website of the Ministry of Education, including the review programme for the 4th grade of primary education and education, where the review is said to be carried out after a year. Or, in the rule on curricula and the review programme for a particular educational profile, listed under 110-00-3965/1 in your ministry, it is said that the application of the visit will be followed at least four times during the school year, and that the review evaluation will be carried out at the end of the school year. Experiences are different and therefore I invite you to reconsider and accept this amendment in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25768	On Article 102, the amendment was submitted by MP Goran Mihajlovic, who wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25769	Article 102 refers to textbooks, but since we have a discussion tomorrow on this topic about textbooks and teaching tools, we will certainly have more details in tomorrow's debate, and this time I just want to point out the position of the 2nd said member - the minister can approve more textbooks for the same subject in the same discussion, as well as a foreign textbook. From here, it's only about the quantitative side, that we have as many textbooks as possible, not the qualitative ones. Therefore, we suggest that this attitude 102 be changed and that in the new version, the minister can approve more textbooks for the same class, making sure that different textbooks contribute to raising students' knowledge. So this is what we want to highlight the qualitative side, because it's certainly not only important that we have more textbooks for the same subject, but there should be a legitimate reason when it's proposed.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25770	The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs Zlata Djeric and Aleksandra Ilic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Education have adopted this amendment. On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, amendment to article 105, was submitted by the Education Committee. The proposer's representative accepted the amendment. Member of the 105th amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Dragoljub Micunovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted together to article 105, Mr. Zoran Shami and Alexander Pejcic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 107 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radica Jocic. The government and the Education Committee accepted this amendment and it became an integral part of the bill. On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the amendment to Article 107, was submitted by the Education Committee. The applicant's representative accepted this amendment. Members of the 107th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Shami, Donka Banovic, Aleksandra Pejcic and Milica Vojic-Markovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Mrs. Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25771	We have suggested that Section 5, to convince him now, not to read, that the student is evaluated at least four times in the midterm in primary and at least twice in secondary education and education. We didn't think it was enough to just double-judge a student in secondary education and education, whether it was a high school or a high school. We suggested four. If I'm not mistaken, the president of the Committee has told me that you have suggested that the amendment be assessed at least three times during one half-year. I also understand the reasons why you think it's too much when it comes to secondary education, but certainly this, and the solution so far and suggested that only twice, it wasn't good. We know from practice that it is not good for a mid-term student to be evaluated only twice for his work, because there are many ways to evaluate the student. Only one way is the oral answer to questions, but there are different ways to evaluate the student, and in some cases the student can get up to ten grades, without any problems, so I would also like to commend the promoter for accepting this change.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25772	Members of the 108th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Shami, Donka Banovic, Aleksandra Pejcic and Milica Vojic-Markovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 108 of the amendment was submitted by MP Jorgovanka Tabaković. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 108 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Mašić. Here you go, Mr. Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25773	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, these are two related amendments submitted by MPs Jorvanka Tabakovic and Mr Zoran Masic. It is about how the school year ends, or what conditions a student needs to meet in order to finish his school year. I see, according to the bill, that even in elementary and high school, we are now introducing one newspaper, which so far has been a practice in higher and higher education institutions, which is that what you don't end up in one class, you go conditionally to another, and you do exams from the previous class. These amendments are required to delete it. Primary and secondary education is not the same as higher or higher school, because no one can convince me that someone who didn't know mathematics knows physics and chemistry doesn't go. The explanation we've got is, in a way, for thinking, but there's always an alternative. It is said: "Amendment should not be accepted, because such a legal solution allows a student to complete an initial education as an extraordinary student in the same school with the same teachers. This enables him to complete his generation's education, to stay in the system and not become a social problem." However, I can interpret it in another way. If it stays the way it is in the bill, then these young people can mature one thought and use it as an experience, that any problem can be relatively easy to solve, whatever it is they're doing and whatever it is they're not supposed to do. So, often it's not just foreknowledge or knowledge, it's not why someone repeats the class, it's mostly laziness and irresponsibility. We can't put it as psychological or any of the other consequences of the students. There are those, but unfortunately this is most of them. So if you let people who are irresponsible, young and lazy solve their problem easily, they will be even more irresponsible and lazy. This is the purpose of repeating the class, bearing a certain consequence of why some material was not mastered. I agree that he can have a bad influence on self-esteem, but he can also influence it as something that will make his peers not consider him a repeater, but worthy of himself by finishing that class, but not with this passing of exams, but in the right way. If it's people who really have problems finishing class again, this way you're not going to help them. Maybe they should repeat the class, but in accordance with the 77th law you're referring to, to be paid particular attention to them, to work under a special program, to really learn, not that -- let's let him go, try, we know it's not enough, but I guess it's going to be something of him. That seems to me to have been a problem with us in schools so far, especially since that system, since the collapse of SFRY, when the criteria set by the educators were much lower in all areas of education than the basic, medium and higher, unfortunately. Now we have a real invasion of callers, who really aren't experts and who were finishing some correspondence schools. If we continue with this practice, I don't think we'll solve the problem. People who are not responsible enough and worthy enough to learn schools, to prepare for life, will be even more. It's about young people who are prone to it, especially if parental supervision, because of the general situation in the country, is weak, and believe that it is.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25774	On Article 108 of the amendment, with correction, the MPs Zlata Đeric and Aleksandra Ilic together submitted a letter to the National Assembly. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The representatives of the Proposer and the Committee on Education accepted the amendment. Member of the 109th Amendment was submitted to the People's MP, Olena Papuga. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 110 of the amendment, together with the correction, the MPs Zlata Đerić and Aleksandra Ilic submitted. Representatives of the Proposer and the Committee on Education accepted the amendment. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Shami, Donka Banovic, Aleksandar Pejcic, Milica Vojic-Markovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 142, the Committee on Education has tabled an amendment to Article 113. The applicant's representative accepted this amendment. MEPs Jon Magda, Dragomir Cimeša and Miodrag Stoilovic jointly submitted the amendment to Article 121. The government and the Education Committee have adopted this amendment and it becomes an integral part of the bill. On the basis of Article 142, the Committee on Education has submitted an amendment to Article 121. The applicant's representative accepted this amendment. A civil protection officer has submitted to Article 121 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 123 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Do you want a word? Here you go, Mr. Saviæ.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25775	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to article 123 of this bill. To point out that this member refers to the work of trainees in the field of education. My amendment is that this member is expelled, or deleted. For what? Simply, this member is not comprehensive, because in large numbers of secondary vocational schools in smaller places is not applicable. And in the light of my amendment, which the government has had the opportunity to consider, I have cited one particular example that I personally know, that a traffic engineer who is a beginner in the Cup can't have for a mentor of a man from Prokupje, there's simply no such profile. Or an even more drastic example, a traffic engineer from Gracanica for mentors had to have a man from Nis, and imagine the distance between Nis and Gracanica. We know that there are two dairy schools in Serbia, there is one in Sapac, there is one in Pirot, you know where Shabac, at one end of Serbia, and Pirot on the other end of Serbia, it means professional school, usually there's one department, sometimes there was more, I really don't have that data, maybe now there's half the department. In the case of professional objects, a man as a beginner, let's say from Piroth, certainly won't be able to get past himself -- he may be able to get out of some cases, but surely from some professional cases, he won't be able to -- that he has a mentor or a face that the mentor determines from that profession to help him in his work. If this member of the law were to literally apply, then the person from Capca would have to go to Pirot or vice versa.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25776	The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Shami, Donka Banovic, Aleksandar Pejcic and Milica Vojic-Markovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Goran Mihajlovic, who wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25777	My amendment is in fact a logical continuation of the exposure previously given by counterpart Nikola Savic, and he explained that the property or calling of an intern has a person who first established a working relationship at a school institution, either at a certain time. This member foresees up to a maximum of two years that the person may have the call of trainees, and that after a year he may obtain the right to obtain a licence based on which he may move from trainee status to a particular calling, whether teachers, educators or an expert associate. The problem is that in order to be licensed, it is necessary to first make a certain application with the relevant bureaucratic agencies that are authorised to do so, and since it is known that these agencies are working in practice can happen, let's say that the person submits a licence application and that the agency does not invite the person to pass the licence in the next year and that, past his will, someone loses the right to pass the licence and loses his employment relationship. Therefore, we suggest that this point 9 in Article 123 be deleted, because it is something that is absolutely not dependent on the person who is in favour of the licence, but on those agencies that are set up for that purpose.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25778	On Article 126, the amendment was submitted by MP Gojko Radic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Shami, Donka Banović, Aleksandar Pejcic and Milica Vojic-Markovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zarko Korać, Nebojsa Rangelovic and Nenad Prokic. No, I don't. Member of the 130th Amendment was submitted by MP Vuceta Toskovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 131 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milisav Petronijevic. The government and the Education Committee accepted this amendment and it became an integral part of the bill. The 132nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Shami, Donka Banovic, Aleksandar Pejcic and Milica Vojic-Markovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Mrs. Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25779	Article 132 speaks of who can have a working relationship to a certain time in an institution. We have suggested that this position 6 be deleted, because it is not clear why the selection process of a teaching assistant would provide the opinion of the local self-government unit's competent authority. I suppose, since I know there are several quite successful projects, that it is Roma education, although they are outside the system or at least this current law, we call them "Roma assistants" to help teachers in that classroom where Roma children are doing better. I guess that's why, but if it isn't, then this attitude can cause problems with admissions to the working relationship of assistants.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25780	On Article 136, the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic, who wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25781	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I must say this is the last amendment to the SRS proposal, but this is also the amendment that has caused the most misunderstanding among all educational workers in Serbia. This amendment treats teachers' direct work in education, professional associates and other educators. Here in an explanation for which this amendment is rejected you say that the standard of all forms of work directly with children and students and other forms of work of teachers, educators and professional associates at the weekly and annual level will be prescribed by the minister. The same solution exists in the existing law. It is known, to me, that the same solution exists in the existing law, but this member who speaks of it, 60% of working time, and 60% of 40% of it is 24, and there is a legitimate fear of educational workers that this norm will increase from 20 to 24 hours, and here, as I interpret all my colleagues, educators, i.e. teachers of Serbian language, mathematics and foreign languages, whose direct norm of working with students was 18 hours, they will have 20 hours of norms this time, applying this law. That is why I would like to ask Mr. Zarko Obradovic here to now or when he gives the final word regarding this law and the law that follows, the law on textbooks, to explicitly and clearly state here what it is.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25782	The 141st Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Shami, Donka Banovic, Aleksandar Pejcic and Milica Vojic-Markovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 142, the amendment was submitted by MP Miletic Mihajlovic. The government and the Education Committee accepted the amendment and became an integral part of the bill. National MP Miletic Mihajlovic submitted the amendment to Article 144. The government and the Education Committee accepted the amendment and became an integral part of the bill. Members of the 150th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic-Markovic. Does anyone want a word? Mrs. Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25783	Article 150 speaks of conditions that must be met for one educational inspector. We suggest that the affairs of an educational inspector, who controls mainly the legality of the work of the institution, can only be performed by a graduate lawyer with a professional exam or now, or for a few years, master, for the simple reason that I know that in some, or many local self-governments, the work of an educational inspector is done by people who are not lawyers, but are people who worked in schools, so they have experience etc. These people are also in trouble, because they do not know enough the laws in this area, but also some other areas, so that very often their interpretation is not good and then there must be again a school administration that is responsible for the region or the ministry. Sometimes these school inspectors don't prove useful enough. Well, if one of the most important tasks of this educational inspector is to control the legality of work, then he should be a graduate lawyer.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25784	The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric and Aleksandra Ilic. Miss Alexandra Ilic wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25785	Dear President, I will also use the time of my parliamentary group. We have submitted an amendment to Article 152 of item 1(3). The word "eight" is changed in the word "ten." The observed and confirmed work on the profession is a very important recommendation to an educational advisor, and for the sake of the authority that needs to be achieved in collaboration with educational workers, it must show that there are at least two generations behind it, taking into account a four-year cycle in education. The role of an educational counselor is very important in directing the very educational worker, and the practice itself at first sight is invisible, but if the educator is primarily a teacher of authority in the classroom itself, then his work will provide far-reaching results. As an educational worker and a member of the Education Committee, I must first ask myself where our education lies in relation to other countries of the world, especially Europe. If we look back, we can realistically conclude that in our country there was an extraordinary attention and selflessly invested funds in the system of education, which monitored world results in this area and could also be found to be our schools, and in particular some universities were known and recognized in the world. The diplomas of individual universities and specialized school institutions were a recommendation for employment in any country of the world and it is a questionable fact that it was a special privilege for students of other countries to study at individual universities in our country. There is an impression that at this point we are not at this level and we believe that appropriate measures should be taken urgently to speed up education reforms that are one of the key factors for Serbia's modernisation and EU accession as quickly as possible. The development of the education system is imperative for this society and there must be no dilemma in the priority of degree and social importance and decision-making in the necessity of segregation and investment of funds. We started with a reform of education, but we have to ask ourselves every time we get there and what we need to do. We must keep in mind that the structure and quality of education will affect Serbia's future in economic development and what place Serbia will take in world technological development and modernisation, how much its opportunities and strength will be in European and world competition. It must be noted that the announced reform of education has led to the realization of several important projects, such as free textbooks for champions, the introduction of the Internet into schools and the increase of university students. However, we cannot help but realize the facts that speak of dissatisfaction with both professors and students. We cannot easily go over and push under the carpet problems leading to these dissatisfactions, which are viewed by the suspensions of work, which affect the achievement of the planned teaching programme, and thus also the quality and boycott of teaching by students and students. As part of the reforms, we must first establish a normal state of education, and then move on to the necessary reforms. It needs to be cleared up with the corruption of professors and the purchase of exams and diplomas. It's got to get the professor's name back. They need to sharpen and strengthen the criteria for selecting the teaching staff. Days and commissions must be determined which, at one time, without the presence of teaching staff, through informative conversations with students, will come to know about the quality of teaching and teaching to students, so that after a year and more of days, there will be no knowledge of various abuses or even sexual abuses. The criteria of conduct and relations of students and students must be established according to their obligations in educational institutions, in which they have acquired status exclusively for the purpose of gaining knowledge. I must commend the minister and his associates who have shown great interest in these laws. We don't really see that much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25786	The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric and Aleksandra Ilic. Mrs. Zlata Djeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25787	We have submitted an amendment to this article requesting that the member be deleted. The member refers to the introduction of an outside associate advisor, because I find it very harmful and expensive, and it is not worth introducing such an expensive job to otherwise poor educational dinar and no professional, nor rational justification exists for this kind of engagement in education. By the way, the education is, we've already figured that out, always in the status of a budget cuts, so we think we can use these funds much more rationally. Otherwise, education does not tolerate various experiments, does not tolerate many experiments, and those who have to be introduced for the quality of the educational process, should be well planned, well planned, well monitored and controlled, so we do not think that this absolutely in education should be introduced.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25788	The 157th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric and Aleksandra Ilic. The government and the Education Committee accepted the amendment, so it became an integral part of the bill. Members of the 168th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Shami, Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic-Markovic. Mrs. Donka Banovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25789	The bill promoter did not accept our amendment to Article 168, where we are changing the word "Government" in the words "National Educational Council will appoint members of the Council for Professional Education and Education of Adults within 60 days of the date of entry into force of this law". But since the motioner has not previously accepted amendments aimed at this very important new council choosing the National Educational Council rather than the Government, then it is clear why this member was also rejected. I want to take advantage of the opportunity to say why we suggested that you change this concept, that this very important body that will have a lot of work to do, because secondary vocational education has so far not had such a significant body that would only deal with medium professional education without talking about adult education. It seems to me that only one person currently works in the ministry in the sector, and I know that adult education is one area that is completely unregulated, which is also necessary for the retraining and qualification and education programmes of adults, so that these people can still find a job in the labour market. This is going to be one significant body, and I don't think it's a good idea for you to decide that the government appoints members of this council. Why? Because when a government appoints a body in a particular composition, the body has a little less credibility in the eyes of the public. You absolutely know that it is one or more parties and that these parties will propose their own. It's different when the National Assembly is working and it's different now, let's say, the reputation of the National Educational Council just because it went through the Assembly, and then one half of the term lasted three years. I'm talking about the credibility of this body. I'm afraid that when this government doesn't exist in this system, let's say for the longest three years, the next government will deal with changing people who will work on this council. I don't understand why you're running away from that solution, the National Educational Council had a lot of problems at the beginning and it formed. That is why it was partly guilty of the Assembly and because of the whole selection procedure, however, it is a body that now works well and has no reason not to appoint or select members of this future council.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25790	On Article 174, MPs Zoran Shami, Donka Banovic and Aleksandar Pejcic submitted together. The government and the Education Committee accepted this amendment, so it became an integral part of the bill. The amendment was submitted to Article 184 by MP Jon Magda. The government and the Education Committee accepted this amendment, so it became an integral part of the bill. Since we have completed the principled review of the Bill's proposal in particular, does the proposal representative Dr. Zarko Obradovic, Minister of Education, want the final word? Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25791	I want to tell you a few sentences. When I was an MP years ago, always at the end of the debate on amendments, MPs asked the question -- what does this one want to say now, given that several hours earlier, the debate on amendments took place. But I would really like to say a few sentences now at the end of the debate on these amendments to the law on the foundations of the education and education system. Here, we started this morning, or at 09.00 a.m., we started working, and now it's 10:00 p.m., and we got into a good night. We have debated very much today about this law and I would really like to thank all of you for the discussions and the effort you have made to affirm education, because here today or tonight they are persistent and those who look at education in a different way, about which nothing bad about those colleagues who were not in a situation to be with us today, but from the debate heard today in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, absolutely implements the view that education should get better treatment than it has now. It's not a matter of one minister or government, it's the need of a state. I'm saying this by no chance, there were MPs who directly or indirectly tried to ask a question or draw the conclusion that one of us is asking us to pass this law, so we have to follow something, copy or something. I have to tell you all, it's absolutely not true. This law needs Serbia and the education and education system established by this law or those solutions that improve quality are something Serbia needs. No one is chasing us to propose the solutions we have proposed, and we are proposing them because we want to improve the system. It seems to me that we have shown good will both in the talks, both on the Committee and today, so I dare say a certain amount of expertise, since there has been a dispute on the other hand, but you have seen that we have discussed almost every amendment, with a lot of arguments for or against. The fact that we have accepted 54 amendments, of the 201 that have been submitted to this bill, is really saying that there was no apriorius negative attitude towards the promoter, but we have taken care of the content of the law. There are a few questions that have been asked, so I'd like to say, in order to have a good education, we need a commitment to first education, we need a system of values, and we need a lot of good laws. I hope this system law creates good preconditions for other laws in the field of education and education. We need far better support from the whole society. I don't mean the government, the opposition when I talk about the media, I mean all of us who live and work in the Republic of Serbia, because there's a lot of need to get a treatment that absolutely deserves it. Someone asked -- what kind of education we need or where we are today. It's simple, what is the role of knowledge and position. You who sit here or work in education, or you do education in a very good way and you can learn certain conclusions yourself, but when the kids realize what knowledge means to them and to the state, then they'll turn to more education, because when they realize that education is a condition or a ticket to the future, then it'll look completely different. There's, of course, the other side, like the minister and this team of people that you see here, and a lot of other people you don't see here, we could go with another logic. We don't do education. I said somewhere that an ideal minister who doesn't get involved in his business is just signing bills, and in education, you know he's got a lot of money, and there's a lot of bills to sign. We haven't defined ourselves to do that, but in the past year and a few days we've wanted to change things. It's not just about this law or any other law that we're going to discuss tomorrow, it's about a lot of concrete moves we've made over the past few years, but it's a little bit, little bit for what we need. Believe me, we need time, we have a wish, we're gonna need money and expertise. That's why these amendments and this debate that was precious to us. I don't think there's any reason for anyone to be afraid, as I would say, about the status of employees or the rights of directors, or for the existence of certain bodies, advice or anything like that, that we want to do something that will harm the system. We said we supported the structure that exists. The institutions were founded in 2004. I would just remind my colleagues and the public that if we wanted to, not destroying what was before us and not acting in style, it wasn't worth anything before, now we're going to do anything new, we've kept things that we think have value, and we've tried to offer solutions in front of you, with an explanation why we think they're good for the future that's coming. No one has a reason to be afraid or employed. I must say, we've talked to the unions about the solutions to the labour standard. I'm not going to say that the unions have agreed or not, but we have all the dilemmas, as I would say, discussed what that really means. I have to say about secondary vocational education and your amendments, your colleagues from the SRS, you were really consistent in that part of submitting amendments and your requests, but right now as a minister, don't even think that we won't respect the communities of secondary schools, the profession relating to that council. We opted for forming a council at government level because we have experience regarding the National Educational Council, that it took him almost two years to form, and another half year to start working. Medium vocational education is something Serbia needs and where it needs to react quickly. You'll see to it by the names and last names of the people who are on this advice that it will be about professional people. There's no politics, because these people who are sitting right now, too, well, I'm telling you because we have, in this council, a national education... All right, colleagues, I'm giving you the right to consider what I'm saying. In this national educational council, part of the members of the National Educational Council was elected by one congregation majority, and now the second congregation majority. If I say it's about professional people, I really think it's about professional people, and if you take the policy criteria, then you'll, I'm sorry, come to the conclusion -- if these are chosen by the policy criteria, then they're already chosen by the policy criteria. I tell you - no, the profession is important and the profession should be respected. You will see when the government proposes members of the Council for Medium Professional Education and Adult Education, that we really want to improve secondary vocational education, because this is the need and interest and the economy of Serbia and the demand for the labour market, and we want to create a basis for adult education. No need, you saw that we tried different solutions to improve the system, to follow teachers and teachers and to pay attention to it at all levels of education. Because they're free of any law to us, I can say that the law is ideal or that you claim it's no good, but if we don't have a teacher who wants to work with children, to give him knowledge, to encourage him to think, to teach him how to apply what he's learning, that the child understands that and tomorrow to apply it, then we didn't do the job. I'm saying this in the context that we have great goals, but we're facing a harsh reality where we have a large number of illiterate people, a large number of uneducated people, that we have a small number of highly educated people, that we have data that say that children in sixth, seventh or first grade high school don't even know the proper way to write. There's something wrong with our system. I'm not going to fight anybody, so say it's that one and that one. We're not good with the system. So let's change things inside the system together, because education can't achieve results overnight. We are now laying the groundwork for something whose results will come in the years ahead. Two more words, there's a lot of concrete things we seem to have answered. If there are any we're not up front, I apologize for that. Since we'll be there tomorrow, we'll be able to talk about it. Do not have any idea that we want to solve internal relations at school at any rate at the expense of employees or directors. This story about directors, because it has a part of the law relating to directors, do we now want to bring the directors in any way to an inferior situation, not the contrary. The solutions proposed by the school board, local self-government, their behavior, director's relationship, meeting obligations, conditions for resolution. These are all things that existed before, and we just suggested solutions that make the system more efficient. Don't worry about anyone being threatened. I want to tell you in the end, we have a great public need to change things in the education system. I'm telling you this very frankly. I said in the debate, there is no reason why members of the majority people are afraid they will lose some of their national identity, or that members of minority communities are afraid they will not be respected as appropriate to a country, such as Serbia. The education system guarantees the same conditions for all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. That is why we have accepted certain amendments that speak, I cannot remember exactly the formulation, but of respect for the state of Serbia and of course respect for the identity of both the Serb people and the identity of members of minority communities. So this whole system of values that we're setting now, if we apply it in practice, because the application of these provisions will follow in the years that are coming before us, will significantly improve it, but there will be a lot of pressure to stay out of who knows what reason. I'm just saying, we often like to give ourselves very high values and to overestimate ourselves sometimes. It's nice that our children are winning our first prizes in international competitions, but the number of these children is getting smaller, unfortunately, compared to some time before, and our average, let me say, has fallen below some other countries. Of course we need to invest, but we need to change the system from the inside to have quality education, and then together with the National Council on Higher Education and this National Educational Council on Medium Professional Education, then we will simply be in a position to bring a strategy and then all together to discuss really what kind of education Serbia needs for the future.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-24-0.u25792	Mr. Minister, let me sincerely thank your associates for the contribution you have made, that in one and more of the working and correct atmosphere we are discussing this extremely significant law. I hereby conclude the examination of the draft law on the basis of the system of education and education in particular. After we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in detail, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Tomorrow we will continue to discuss the draft law on textbooks and other teaching tools, at 10.00 hours. Dear MPs, I thank you for your cooperation and for your truly extremely correct work. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the 11th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009. Based on the official record, I find that the session is attended by 95 MPs. To correctly determine the quorum, please place the cards in the MPs' units. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 87 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that more than one-third is present and there are working conditions. I would like to inform you that the sittings were prevented from being attended by MPs Borislav Pelevic, Svetlana Stojanovic, Dr Nikola Krpić, Elvira Kovac, Balint Pastor, Laslo Varga, Arpad Fremond, Riza Halimi and Dr Nikola Lazic. According to Article 88(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I have called for meetings, in addition to the representatives of the motions of Dr. Zarvoje Mitrić, State Secretary, Dr. Tinde Kovac-Cerović, State Secretary at the Ministry of Education, Vesna Fila, Assistant Minister for Development of Education and International Educational Cooperation, Mr. Zoran Kostic, Assistant Minister for Inspectors and Supervisory Affairs, Miroslav Radikić, Smilja Krnet and Natas Mujagić, Senior Advisors at the Ministry of Education, Mr. Zoran Kostic, Assistant Minister of the Agenda, Dr. Oliver Dulic, Minister of the Environment and Spatial Planning, also attends Aleksandra Damnjanović-Peter, Assistant Minister of Education, Nebojsa Janjić, Ljilja Stanojević, Assistant Minister of the Minister, Nena Dulic, Minister of Life, Mr. Žetić, Republika Žetnik, Republika Žetić, Retić, Republikažitlić, Retić of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Slovenia. We move to the 11th point of the agenda: – Proposal for the Law on Užbenice and Other Continuing Funds (specificities) You have received amendments submitted by the MPs Jon Magda, Dragomir Cimeša, Miodrag Stoilović and Aleksandar Janković, Saša Maksimović, Zlata Đerić and Aleksandra Ilic, Miroslav Markicevic, Igor Bečić, Zoran Babić, Nikola Savić, Radica Jocic, Goran Mihajlović, Sladjan Mijaljevic, Miletić Mihajlović, Riza Halimi, Zoran Šami, Donka Banović, Milica Vojić-Marković and Aleksandar Pejčić. On the basis of Article 148(2), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Legislative Committee rejected as incomplete amendments by MP Sladjan Mijaljevic to Article 18. The rejected amendment cannot be discussed and is not voted on. You have received reports from the Committee on Education, the Legislative Committee and the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Members of the 2nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Jon Magda, Dragomir Cimeša, Miodrag Stoilovic and Aleksandar Jankovic. The government and the Education Committee accepted the amendment and it became an integral part of the bill. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by Ambassador Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, Mr. Saviæ.
