ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-09-0.u17238	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Fourth Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 111 MPs attend the session. To determine the number of MPs present in the hall, please, honourable Members of Parliament, to insert their identification cards into the MPs' units. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 98 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that more than one third of the MPs are present, and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. On the basis of Article 235, whether one of the presidents, or the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 235. Rules of Procedure? Mr. Miroslav Markicevic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-09-0.u17239	Dear Presidents, honourable fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, I have been in this so-called asked MPs whether the management of this home, so to speak, had a list of questions asked by MPs and whether you have a record of how many questions the government had answered, or how many questions the resolution ministers answered, since it is obvious that some ministers do not want to answer, in my opinion, the reasoned, correct questions. I think the ministers in the government would have to understand that we are not only asking what is in the personal interest of each MP individually, but what interests the citizens. We represent the citizens here and at their request many of us receive them on weekends in their cities where they live. The builders are interested in some topics, because some of the answers that matter first and foremost for their standard cannot be obtained, but through their people's representatives. In order for someone not to realize that I want to take cheap political points here, I will repeat that some of the ministers are very respectful that MPs are asking questions and expressing interest in certain topics, let's say, as defence minister, who personally answered a question that is also a state secret. Some ministers take their role and duty seriously, and some do not. Finally, to move on to today's question that I want to ask Petra Skundric, Minister of Energy, in fact, to initiate one topic which six months ago in all MPs' groups and a good number of MPs was a top issue, which is the price of gas. I now see that no one remembers that topic, especially those of the ruling coalition that mentioned, the heads of some marginal parliamentary groups, that they will allegedly resign unless the price of gas is reduced. Gentlemen dear and respected citizens of Serbia, the moment has come when some should keep those promises. What's this about? For those of you who know how the price of gas is formed, I should remind the public and all of you fellow MPs, I think you, too, are interested in what I ask, because you also come from the middle where a good number of citizens use gas as energy in households, therefore, the price of cubic gas is formed at a world price of $450 for 1,000 cubic metres of gas. Now the world price is below $300, which means that gas, automatically at the next session of the government of Serbia, should cost at least 30%. I ask Peter Skundric's question and he explains to us, very plastic and correctly, in the days when the gas price was a top theme, that gas, unlike oil derivatives, is formed from oil and gasoline at the average price of 15 days, so on. There's a formula, the price of gas is formed by, like, six to nine months averaged the price of oil derivatives, they know how to do it. The moment has now come for the price of gas to be downloaded or for the Ministry of Energy, or Minister Petar Skundric, to logically and concretely explain to the citizens of Serbia, in particular that the company "Srbigas" is financed by professional sports clubs – and we are talking about the journals of MPs, we are even talking about the salaries of the directors of public enterprises, of several hundred thousand. Just to remind you that the average American basketball player costs tens of thousands of euros a month. This should all be paid by citizens of Serbia, in this case, by citizens who use gas as energy, and in this global crisis, when in Serbia probably 50% of the population is fighting for a naked existence, I think they could use a gas price, because there are economic reasons, market reasons, especially as there are new charges for most Serbian citizens, especially Vojvodina, and now there is no one here from Vojvodina to report and ask what is the price of gas, because 80% of Serbian citizens who use gas as energy live in Vojvodina. They had heating systems and gas systems built 30-40 years ago. (President: Time, Mr Markicevic. Thank you. I also thank you for your quick answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-09-0.u17240	Of course, the services have insight into the answers and I am also taking this opportunity to remind myself that if after two weeks the MP does not receive a written reply from the minister or institution and the person expected to respond, the services respond. Your question today will be forwarded to the Minister of Energy. Thank you. Mr. Riza Halimi wants to talk.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-09-0.u17241	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am asking the government a question, since more than a month ago I asked the Minister for Economics and Regional Development, Mr Dinkic, and I didn't get the answer. It is a dramatic manipulation and a kind of discrimination that has already been carried out during the auction of the company "Brothership", when a discriminatory condition has been set that only companies can compete, not only those that have more than two million euros of income in the course of last year, but had to have a four-star hotel candidate. It was an auction of the municipal character company. Fifteen stores were sold that were probably in the best positions in Presevo, where they worked for a long time, private traders who were willing to buy this social company that hadn't worked for 15 years, and under such imposed, incomprehensible, discriminatory conditions, the company bought one, too, to say, small firm from Vranja, but which had a consortium with the "Maestral Tours" from Budva, which probably has a hotel. Now, in this crisis we are in, we allow, firstly, the real price to be estimated from a professional and adequate agency to 190 million dinars. In the first wave, about 160 million dinars were lost, and if it were in free competition, the price would be real, which would be twice as much as the estimated one. Fifty workers are out of work, a job is offered in Vranje; that it is a state body, that it is an economy in question, okay, but we are offered jobs for Presevoljani to go to Vranje, for a trade done in the private sector for 20 years by Presevljani, and the state has made it impossible for them to deal with this work. From one party, no investment for jobs, no investment for development. What exists from some ancient times is ruthlessly destroyed, and people remain jobless and a municipality with no prospects for further development. There is an obligation of 30 million for investment, and in the beginning workers are left out of work. The question is what was this strategy in such a drastic crisis that we are now in, especially when it comes to the most underdeveloped municipality in the country, convincingly in the last place with seven times the lower income per capita than the average in the country. In my opinion, it's absolutely high time for these manipulations to be considered in the government and to be seen seriously what's going on in that Privatisation Agency. We have had a series of such failures that have led to the collapse of a series of our good companies, which are currently not working because of such bad procedures in privatisation, and now it's the turn of the trading company, which could absolutely work with these manipulations and without State interference, because before the directors leased that capacity to the people who really wanted it and survived... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... So... (President: Time, Mr. Halimi. )......................................................................................................... This should be considered urgently, because it really is a very sensitive, not only economic but also political issue.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-09-0.u17242	Thank you, Mr. Halimi. The question will be forwarded. The word is Mr. Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-09-0.u17243	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the first question is for the prime minister, with a previous conclusion that the new package of government measures is incomparably more quality than the original one that included a harrassor in Paradise. This one is, in any case, much more positive. It seems to me that the government should have left first, so it is my question for the prime minister – whether there will be reductions in the current government in terms of reducing the number of ministries. I remind you that, for example, the government that we often mention or the cabinet of Minister Nikola Pasic of Serbia, who respected and respected the whole world, had seven ministers, that the government of Zoran Djindjic had 17 ministries, that all countries in the environment had up to 15 ministries, or ministers, and Serbia, although in the most difficult position, although the poorest, allowed itself the luxury of having 25 ministers. Which is a lot, it's a lot. It's not just ministers, it's cabinets, state secretaries, advisors, assistants, cars, cell phones, representations, etc. It's very wasteful. I think it's realistic that this number is reduced and reduced to some reasonable measure, because frankly, for some ministers or family, you wouldn't know that they're not ministers in the current government, because the effects of the work of certain ministers are practically undetectable. I ask the question, what is the effect of the work of the Minister of Culture? All cultural institutions are ruined, National Museum, National Theatre, National Library, Philharmonic, Tanjug, all in ruins. So, the question – whether the number of ministers will be reduced, and thus the government. The second question has been mentioned before, and there is no answer, but we're still listening to fairy tales about the "Fiat." What's the future of the flag about the Fiat? When's the Fiat gonna invest that thunderous announced investment? When will he pay for the anuities, interest, all the things he didn't pay for? When will this famous production begin, which is so loudly announced? We can see there's no placement of those flags cars on the Russian market, and that was the main thing that was promised. These vehicles do not have the status of domestic vehicles. Instead, we're looking at a colorful lie called "Fiat" fullo, old for a new one. That's ridiculous. That's unserious. It's a couple thousand cars a year. In 1989, Zastava produced 220 thousand vehicles, and now 4-5 grand on an annual basis. This is what a serious craft workshop is going to do, and they get everything from Italy, in principle, what they do, they just have to shut down and merge. Last night we're looking at the economy minister, he's gone, because he started doing some sort of tattooing section. Now we should all be happy and content. Enough of that fog sale! Enough of that colorful lie! They brought in an Italian, and he promises. I can assume that he is motivated to deceive Serbian citizens on his own. So, I'm looking for an answer, what's the fate of the story about the Fiat? That same "punto," what's on it homework? Come on, one piece. We promise that Ju-es style will produce bodywork, and he closes his high furnaces. Batterys, cables, nothing domestic that's put in "punto". Then we thought, we'll lie to the Russians, because we keep lying to ourselves. I think that's the end of it. I'm looking for an answer - what's going to happen to the lies about the Fiat. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-09-0.u17244	Thank you. The word is by MP Vladimir Milentijevic on behalf of the DSS Group of MPs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-09-0.u17245	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, by accepting the Eulex mission and their deployment on the territory of Kosovo and Metohija have caused great trouble for the Serbian and non-Albanian people. We are particularly discouraged by the fact that the Eulex mission in Kosovo and Metohija is not due to the rule of law and is not status neutral, but is now implementing Martha Ahtisaari's plan and creating an independent Kosovo. The DSS strongly opposed the acceptance of the Eulex mission and pointed to its consequences, deeply convinced that the Eulex mission would now implement the Martti Ahtisaari plan. The arrival of the Eulexa situation in KIM has made it very much worse. An additional fear and uncertainty has been created with Serbs and non-Albanians. I will give several examples: – Kosovo and Metohija have been suppressed UNMIK, although UNMIK temporarily managed the southern Serbian province under Resolution 1244. - A terrorist who was sentenced to 40 years in prison for blowing up a bus carrying Serbs and non-Albanians was released and 12 people died during that time. - Serbs and non-Albanians have no electricity in enclaves for days and months, and in some environments, no water. - The EULEX police except in northern Kosovo and Metohija are almost gone. – The entry of the officials of the Republic of Serbia has been prohibited, although UNMIK's regulation of 8 April, Article 22, regulates that persons are not required to receive the authority to enter Kosovo and remains on it if it is the person of the travel document or the identity card of the Republic of Serbia. – It is threatened daily by the arrest of Serb leaders and local self-government officials in Kosovo and Metohija. It threatens to banish Serbs and non-Albanians from Kosovo and Metohija, and more so. If this adds to the relationship between the authorities and officials of the Republic of Serbia and takes into account the fact that no national and political consensus has been reached on the non-acceptation of the Eulex mission, although the DSS has strongly advocated this, the Serbian Assembly has been prohibited from discussing Kosovo and Metohija since its constitution. The Kosovo and Metohija Committee held its first session ten days ago to discuss some important issues. The officials of the Republic of Serbia are full of the EU's mouth and the white Schengen list, and more and less talk about Kosovo and Metohija, apart from the controversial statements that we will never recognise and sign an independent Kosovo, although we seem to be far from the European Union. Nothing has been done to improve the conditions of life, given that the Republic of Serbia's budget has been reduced from last year to 36% much earlier than the start of the economic crisis. I will therefore ask the ministries and ministers four questions. The first question - I demand an explanation and a legal basis for introducing temporary measures in the municipalities of Pristina and Pec. A second question for the Ministry of Energy – does the EPS have technical opportunities to switch off electricity in the environments in which Albanians live, and if there is, why doesn't it? The third question – what about the Six Points Agreement of Belgrade-Ban Ki Moon and whether its implementation will take place at all? If he will, when? The fourth question -- who will protect Serbs and non-Albanians in Kosovo and Metohija in the event of an attack unless UNMIK, EULEX and KFOR do so, what was the case on 17 March 2004? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-09-0.u17246	The word has a National MP, Slobodan Maras, on behalf of the LDP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-09-0.u17247	President-in-Office, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, the Honorable Minister, I would like to ask you a quick question. A few years ago, a government gave a concession for the Horgos-Pozega highway to a company. The second government to come after her broke up that concession. We've been trying for years and months, and we and the rest of our colleagues, to get all the information from the contract they gave to the concession firm. We weren't able to see everything. After that, when this last government was formed, the government of Mirko Cvetkovic, we were able to hear that all the provisions of these contracts are on the side of the Republic of Serbia, that there will be no problems and that we can freely break the contract. So we've been announcing for months that we're going to break the contract with the concessionaire. What happened now? The Austrian court made a decision where he accepted allegations and complaints filed by the concessionaries. As far as we know, the amount the concessionaire asks of the Republic of Serbia is 17m euros. What does the state of Serbia do on that basis? Did anyone react? Did any of the ministers in charge react? Who has always advocated breaking the contract in the way it was done, that is, why has no one complained on behalf of the Republic of Serbia and challenged this amount of 17m euros at this time when we are all trying to save? We think it is very irresponsible that those who are obliged to complain on behalf of Serbia do not. That's why I'm asking for an answer as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-09-0.u17248	Thank you. Your question will be forwarded to the government. The word is Mrs. Ragush Marina.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-09-0.u17249	So yesterday, we had a very interesting debate about the Bill on Political Parties and the SRS unequivocally said it would make a huge contribution to improving the political climate in the state of Serbia, and in the first place to respect all democratic principles and principles. Of course, under one condition, to be denied in the implementation of the media satanization campaign of the SRS, of the SRS. Also, to be denied in the context of all that SRS MPs are exposed to. One of the last events was in fact the cause of a brutal media campaign of the regime media when it comes to SRS MPs. This, of course, in the context of and directly address Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic to you, because I demand on behalf of the SRS Parliamentary Group, and I can give myself freedom in the name of the entire opposition, it is unfortunate that I begin to look like a trustee to protect the right of the opposition, namely to protect that fundamental constitutional principle that everyone has the freedom to express my political conviction. Why am I saying this? Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, here's how Boris Tadic's regime denies us every day. This is what the faces on the BOLO look like. This is how it is preserved, apparently, the dignity of the National Assembly. This is what the MPs of this prestigious home are cast out to do. So, the story of our salaries, of our journals, as well as the writing of certain regimeal media under the control of Boris Tadic, directly, we can only take it as one thing, which is the Satanisation of the Serbian opposition. When I address government representatives with intent, I remind them that they are representatives of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and that the regime in Serbia should know that it protects the Serbian national interest and of course the institutions of the Serbian state and the Serbian system. This, too, is subject to you, and it is written about your travels, and it is also written about the travels of all those who must travel. So the impression is that someone in this country is Serbia's intention to bring us all down. We therefore require urgent action and an urgent response from you as president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I cannot accept the answer you often give – that you are obliged to respect dignity during Parliament's meeting. It's you, Mrs. Djukic. Dejanovic, the institution. Wherever you appear, you represent Parliament, and so do all 250 MPs. We are now asking you to hold a regular press conference, where you will resist this satanization and deregation of the dignity of all MPs, especially MPs of the opposition. You're right about that. You have an obligation to do that. Distracting attention to professional organisations that should carry out and condemn such writings, as this may be enough reason for someone in the crisis in Serbia to attack one of us or a much worse incident. So we ask you directly to protect the integrity of the MPs. It will be a signal to us that a normal political climate is beginning to assume in Serbia. Until that happens, those climates are gone. We are exposed to the most disgusting attacks and the most brutal convictions in the media – which on the Internet, which in the printed media, which on television, and to remind you, the SRS does not even have space in the media space of the Serbian state. That's one thing. The second thing is a survey that came out today, concrete data, which is a question for the Prime Minister, and it is – 56% of Serbian citizens think Serbia is going the wrong way. That's a significant percentage now. So, the findings are research by the international Republican Institute, it's the institution of the Republican Party of America. I intend to name this source. Serbian citizens think the government has the most to deal with -- unemployment, economics, living standards and corruption. That's all we insisted on being the top theme of this House, and that's why we got the restrictions in the Rules of Procedure first. The excuse was radicals and radical behavior, and the essence is next. (President: Mrs. Ragush, time. ) Just to make a point and apologize for being overrun, so we expect from the prime minister, the Prime Minister of the Serbian government – when will the government come here to Parliament and just speak on these topics? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-09-0.u17250	Since there are no more reports. Since none of the presidents and authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups are answering for a word, we continue to work. (National MP Cedomir Jovanovic from the post: I report to the Rules of Procedure, Madam President. I would like to inform you that I am in agreement with Article 88(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, called for Dejan Jovanovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, Nebojsa Ciric, State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, Nenad Ilic, Adviser at the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, Dejan Radulovic, Adviser at the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, Vladislav Cvetkovic, Adviser at the Privatisation Agency, Branka Radovic at the Privatisation Agency. We move to a joint principled search of 19, 20 and 21 of the agenda: – PROPOSALS ON THE FUND FOR SERBIA DESCRIPTION, TRANSFERATION OF THE LAW ON COMMUNICATION AND DISCONTINUATION OF THE FUND FOR SERBIA AND FINISHING THE FUND OF THE FUND OF THE SOLLOWING BUSINESS Mr Cedomir Jovanovic is advocating a breach of the Rules of Procedure. You have a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-09-0.u17251	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Ministerial, I have reported in accordance with Article 164, namely, I believe that a member of 164 has been injured. The Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, which defines the procedure for the release of the law by emergency procedure in the debate itself. "After an emergency procedure, only laws governing issues and relations can be passed following circumstances that could not be foreseen, and the adoption of laws by emergency procedure could cause adverse consequences for the lives and health of people, the safety of the country and the work of organs and organisations." The emergency procedure, Madam President, among other things, with your consent, is constantly being misused. One of the remarks brought daily in criticism of the work of the Assembly, by international organisations, is actually avoiding essential and serious debates and unjustly calling for urgent proceedings. I am interested in what has led you to propose, following an urgent procedure, a debate on the law on amendments and additions to the Law on Chambers of Commerce, since it is said, in an explanation for the urgent procedure on this law, that the adoption of the law requires the urgent launch of the preparatory activities of existing chambers to bring its business into line with the new law, so that the current chamber system in the Republic of Serbia is prepared in time for the proposed changes and it is necessary that this law be adopted according to the urgent procedure. Article 13 states: "The rules adopted under the power of this law will be passed no later than 31 December 2010, and Article 14 of this law says the law will apply from 1 January 2013. What are the reasons for passing laws by emergency procedure, especially because there is no regional Chamber of Commerce in Serbia that has not criticised the proposal by amending and supplementing this law? Given that the economy opposes this law, I don't think there is any basis for an emergency debate and that they have obtained the preconditions to withdraw this law from the procedure, to remove itself from the agenda, to carry out further consultations and then to adopt into the normal atmosphere a law that might address some of the problems that the ministry points to. This is unsustainable. We are discussing an emergency procedure, and the law will enter into force in 2013, and the following regulations will be adopted by the end of 2010.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-09-0.u17252	I would just like to remind you that I am in a commitment – to make all proposals to the Government, and in particular to the urgent procedure, put on the agenda in front of the Assembly, that I have done it this time and that the Assembly has declared itself, which is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. There is a fact consistent with the comments you have made on the basis of the questions, but the Assembly has just put the agenda and the Chamber of Commerce Act on a proposal from the Government to follow the urgent procedure. So, every proposal from the Government by emergency procedure, sent to us, we are obliged to put on the agenda that the Assembly declares it, which I did this time. We are moving on to a joint principled review on the draft law on the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia, the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Chambers Act and the Proposal for a Law on the termination of the Law on the Insurance and Financing of Foreign Trade Fund. I remind you, pursuant to Article 94, that, in agreement with the National Assembly's decision to carry out a joint principle search on drafts of the law set out in the established agenda, in accordance with points 19, 20 and 21. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, are five hours, as well as that this time is allocated to MPs' groups in proportion to the number of MPs of MPs, and this is: Parliament group For European Serbia – one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; Parliamentary group of SRS – one hour, eight minutes and 24 seconds; Parliament group G17 Plus – 28 minutes and 48 seconds; Parliament group DSS - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; Parliamentary group Progress, Serbia – 25 minutes and 12 seconds; Parliamentary group SPS - 18 minutes; MEP group LDP – 14 minutes and 24 seconds; Parliament group of New Serbia – 10 minutes and 48 seconds; The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, MP Vladan Batic, who is not a member of any parliamentary group, has the right to speak for up to five minutes. I ask the MPs' groups to file a statement with a number of MPs, if they have not already done so. I would like to inform you that the MPs' groups have authorised them to be represented by the following MPs by these points of the agenda: MP Sinisa Stamenkovic, PUPS MP, MP Mladen Grujic, MP Nova Srbija, MP Milan Nikolic, MEP SPS - JS, MP Vlajko Senic, MEP Group G17 plus and National MP Marina Ragus, SRS Group of MPs. According to Article 142, paragraph 2. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint principle-search on the draft law on the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Chambers and the draft law on the termination of the Act on the Insurance and Financing of Foreign Trade Fund. Are the proposing representatives, here is Mrs Verica Kalanovic's representative, Minister for the National Investment Plan, who wants a word? Yeah. ) Mr Jovanovic advertises the violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-09-0.u17253	Madam President, with all due respect to you as president, as the person who is trying to establish some order here in Parliament, I think you have injured Article 27. The Rules of Procedure and the part in which it is said that, in addition to doing the work provided for in the Constitution and chairing the meetings of the National Assembly, you must ensure the application of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Assembly cannot make a decision that is contrary to the Rules of Procedure. I have quoted in a very clear way the Rules of Procedure and Rule 164 which define the procedure for the adoption of the laws of urgency. The government’s sending something to the Assembly does not mean that the ruling majority vote for something contrary to the Rules of Procedure. We kicked 50 MPs out of here for breaking the Rules of Procedure. If we don't respect order, who else will respect it? We cannot discuss the emergency procedure law, which takes effect in 2013, because the Minister of State today came to the Assembly. Let him go back there to that government, and let them behave, and bring them into the front row, and then let the others start calling that order. How can we do that? Following the rules for this law will be adopted by 31 December 2010, and it will take effect in four years, and the ruling majority did not even know what the vote was voting on, nor did anyone say anything like that. Let's not disrespect the Rules of Procedure anymore!
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-09-0.u17254	Since the law came into procedure on February 26th, we also had the business opportunities of the second type until the moment the Assembly declared itself on the agenda, but the debate is on this law, so the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on Chambers, obviously put on the agenda, and we have to discuss it, and then comes the statement. In any case, it may be that you will be participating in your own argument in such a way as to encourage the other MPs to plead accordingly.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-09-0.u17255	You violated Rule 27 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-09-0.u17256	I am under the obligation, respecting the Rules of Procedure, to put everything the Government delivers on the agenda and this is being declared by the Assembly. I'm also obliged to make a decision that the Assembly declares I respect. I really don't think we can take a step back. There were some business opportunities before I put it on the agenda, but the MPs didn't take advantage of them. That's the answer to my question. To challenge the urgency and thus react, so before it came to the agenda, then it was procedurally possible. Thank you. Do you, Mrs. Kalanovic, want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-09-0.u17257	I'm sorry I'm still having a hard time with this technique. I hope the laws get better. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have a set of three economic laws ahead of us. The purpose of the adoption of these laws is to regulate the work of institutions that support economic operators. The aim of the law is for institutions providing support to businesses in the coming period to work more efficiently and cheaply. It is also not negligible that these institutions should effectively implement the programmes defined by the government as measures of economic policy to mitigate the negative consequences of the global economic crisis in the coming period. Let me sit down and use the materials, because it'll be more pleasant for me, but I wouldn't want it to be taken as disrespect to this house. The first law is this development fund law. The Development Fund as a financial institution was established as a need to support the country's economic development, a more balanced regional development and to achieve employment through credit under favourable conditions for small and medium-sized enterprises and entrepreneurs. The Guarantee Fund was also set up to support small and medium-sized enterprises, entrepreneurs and farmers with quality development programmes, but a short business history and relatively high investment, relatively high investment risk, through the issue of guarantees for loans approved by business banks. This law proposes uniting activities carried out by the Development Fund and the Guarantee Fund so far. The new institution would continue to operate on a united basis as a Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia. The basic objectives of this law are contained through the more efficient functioning of institutions, in line with the requirements of economic, social and overall social relations in the Republic of Serbia, through even more intensive action to encourage economic development, more regional development, through the support of small and medium-sized enterprises and entrepreneurs, through the reduction of state administrations and the rationalisation of operational costs. Also, through the alignment with a positive comparative practice that implies that loans and guarantees within one institution and through the further unification of these transactions, which ensure co-ordinated implementation of the original programmes as a government programme are within the framework of the economic policy measure, which is, let's remind ourselves, economic co-financing programmes with business banks, subsidisation of liquidity loans and permanent crafts and subsidisation of consumer credits. This law defines the work of the Fund, the way in which the Fund is financed, the management of the Fund, the control of the Fund, and other issues of importance for work. Who benefits from passing this law? First, small and medium-sized enterprises and entrepreneurs, through a number of approved loans, through an increase in the amount of credit, through the issue of a larger number of guarantees, and a lower cost of time, business banks through increased placement and less administration, unemployed through easier access to microcredits and lower information costs, the institution itself through greater efficiency, increased activity and lower operating costs. Finally, the government of the Republic of Serbia through a more effective implementation of the programme of measures to mitigate the effects of the crisis and through a reduction of the state administration, in line with the government's plan for Serbia's economic stability. This law is referred to in the emergency procedure for the purpose of creating a modern institution for the implementation of the original activities of the Fund, which are loans and guarantees. It is therefore effective to implement the Government's programme to mitigate the effects of the economic crisis with a view to ensuring the liquidity of the real sector, reducing business costs, retaining the existing level of employment and ensuring greater competitiveness of the domestic economy. The second law is the law on amendments and additions to the Law on Chambers of Commerce. This bill creates opportunities for the establishment of other chambers on a voluntary basis, through the association of economic operators in order to achieve common interests. What are the basic goals? First, an increase in the quality of chamber services, which they provide to their members, a reduction in the costs of operators and the principle of optionality, where the bill provides for a free choice in accession and entry, and a suspension of membership in chambers, which through healthy competition increases both the quality of services and the reduction of chamber prices. Prior to proposing this law, a comparative demonstration of the organisation of economic operators in the surrounding countries was made. The analysis shows that the trend in the former communist states is to abolish mandatory membership in chambers of commerce as well as to switch to a voluntary membership system, as existing chambers of commerce have not adapted to new business conditions, i.e. the needs of companies. Such a case is in Slovakia, Bulgaria, Macedonia, BiH, Albania. There is still a mandatory membership system in some countries, but there is an extended service for free services provided to members. However, it is a strong pressure for economic operators to move to voluntary organisation and this is the case in Croatia and Slovenia. Some of the EU countries have a mandatory membership system, but a completely different situation of the chamber system compared to us. Finally, the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development led a large number of companies in Serbia and the opinion of a large number of companies in the Republic of Serbia who believe that certain changes and liberalisation of business associations would lead to quality services and lower prices. The adoption of this law changes in a certain way the current chamber system, the creation of the possibility of other chambers being established, as well as the possibility of exiting from the membership of existing and, of course, staying in the membership of existing ones, if they are satisfied with their work. The adoption of this law requires the urgent launch of preparatory activities of existing chambers of commerce to bring their business into line with the new law and the urgent activities of economic operators towards a decision on their way of association. The third law is the law on the termination of the Foreign Trade Fund Act. The Foreign Trade Insurance and Financing Fund was formed in 2002 as a specialised institution for foreign trade risk insurance and foreign trade financing, aimed at improving exports and developing economic relations with abroad. The insurance and financing agency of the Republic of Serbia was founded to improve exports and develop the economic relations of the Republic of Serbia. The Fund for the Insurance and Financing of Foreign Trade Affairs and the Agency for the Insurance and Financing of Exports of the Republic of Serbia performs their activities to achieve the same objective, and their activities correspond significantly, with the Agency's activity being wider. There are no grounds for the continued parallel existence of both entities and therefore the law regulates the termination of the Fund for the Insurance and Financing of Foreign Trade. Essentially, the Fund is attached to the Agency, thus providing the necessary conditions for uniting jobs related to the promotion and improvement of exports. The effects of the adoption of this law are in greater efficiency of the use of funds, which is more stimulating exports and greater security for exporters, because all services are obtained in one place, the effect is the reduction of the number of institutions, the effect is the alignment with international practice, as good practice has shown that all countries in transition had one state agency that dealt with export-credit operations until the entry into the EU, when the country's security for the bill was isolated from other activities. The proposal is yes, according to Article 161. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and this law will be passed by emergency procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-09-0.u17258	Thank you, Madam Minister. Do the rapporteurs of the Legislative Committee and the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs want a word? No, I don't. ) Among the representatives, i.e. the presidents of the parliamentary groups, MP Radojko Obradovic first appeared.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-09-0.u17259	I thank you, Madam President, fellow MPs, Madam Minister, an extremely important set of laws is on the agenda. In addition to the promoter, you say, they're related to nature, I don't see the very reason why we're only talking about such important issues in one debate. As counterpart Jovanovic has already pointed out, the importance of the Chamber of Commerce but also the importance of regional development absolutely deserves to be devoted to them in this room long enough debate. In principle and in particular, we will talk about each of these three laws. (President: you must reapply, please. [[Disabled microphone.]] I wouldn't say anything wrong with the government, you don't have to take my word. (President: It wasn't trendy. ) Mrs Kalanovic highlighted the importance of the Development Fund and we absolutely support it. The main objectives of the adoption of this law and the basic objectives for which this fund was created are to promote a balanced regional development, foster competitiveness and liquidity and encourage employment. Under the conditions of the crisis, and the government finally acknowledges that the crisis has also affected Serbia, the importance of this fund is earlier and more significant. What are the regional differences and what has been the result of the measures taken so far? Belgrade and Novi Sad differ significantly from the second part of Serbia, namely the case of Novi Sad and Vojvodina. Belgrade takes on an increasingly important part in Serbia's economy year by year, and Novi Sad in the Vojvodina economy. When we look at statistics, Belgrade's participation in Serbia's social product has increased from 24.9% since 1989 to 34% in 2005. The share of Novi Sad in the social product went from 4.6% to 8.4%. The second part of Serbia is stagnating, and Belgrade and Novi Sad have seen significant growth. The number of employees in Serbia has been reduced by 77,000, with the number of employees increasing in Belgrade and Novi Sad. So all these measures, and when we talk about them, we should have these things in mind. Although the number of residents has been reduced in Belgrade and Serbia, only 10 municipalities in Serbia are seeing an increase in population, primarily Belgrade and Novi Sad. That makes sense. Public and private monopolies concentrated in Belgrade and Novi Sad, much more than the measures some development fund can provide, influence the implementation of the concentration on two cities. When we look at income data, Belgrade and Novi Sad together participate with 25% of Serbia's total population, and 50% of all earnings paid are in the two cities. The relationship between Novi Sad and the poorest municipality of Vojvodina, which is Opovo, which has the smallest profit per capita, is 13 to one. Belgrade has a 60% higher profit fund than the rest of Serbia. Taking into account the number of residents, the average earnings in Belgrade are three times higher than the average earnings in Serbia. What does it look like in absolute terms? Income, i.e. per capita in Belgrade, is 14,500, and in Toplička County is 2,900, in Opovo is 1,200, in Raznje 1,500, in Mali Crnic 1,600. These are the consequences that we must treat and by forming only one such fund will not solve in itself any problem. The second thing you specifically pointed out is liquidity. This is a burning problem of the economy, and we must focus on this problem, first of all, seriously. The congregation refuses to discuss it, and the proposed measures do not produce absolutely any results. On the other hand, who is the biggest non-payment in Serbia? The biggest default is the state, and as long as we insist on the responsibilities of all entities and individual citizens, as long as the state behaves as it behaves in Serbia, there will be a problem. Another problem is solving the number of unemployed. Unemployment is rising from month to month and active measures must be taken to address the problem too. We're only talking about the consequences here. We absolutely don't say anything about the causes and do absolutely nothing to solve and neutralize these causes. As you have seen from this data, along with all the measures taken, the differences are not to be reduced but to increase from year to year. I must commend the argument, we have been informed that this was written by Minister Dinkic, not you, but you are here a representative of the government, so accept your praise on behalf of the government. I must commend the way the explanation was written. I have a lot of very useful information here. – One of the reasons why these two funds are being merged is because coordination in the work of these two state institutions has been difficult. – Another reason is that costs are significantly reduced. I'd like to know how there's a coordination in the government between a lot of bodies dealing with this same problem. As far as we know, and MPs are not too familiar today, there is a Office for Sustainable Development of underdeveloped areas in the government, there is the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, there is a Development Fund, there is a minister without portfolios who is also in charge of regional development, there is a Institute for Development, and it seems to me that one of the priorities of your ministry is the development of underdeveloped areas. How does the coordination between you work? On the other hand, particular emphasis should be placed on the importance of the Ministry of Labour and Employment. This ministry is extremely important for solving the whole problem. How do the minister with no portfolio in charge of regional development, Mr. Ugljanin, and what is the coordination of Mr. Ugljanin with Mr. Ljajic, who runs this important ministry? It would be extremely important to hear how it all works. How much does the agency have in total? We found out there were hundreds of them. How do they work? Further in your explanation, you say – The Fund does not depend on the budget. Yesterday we heard from the governors that even the National Bank is not a budgetary institution, the Competition Protection Commission is also not a budgetary institution, the money coming from the current reserve is not budget funds, so all this is additionally interesting. What's our basic problem at this point, it's excessive consumption, and any way of reducing and spending can in any case be commended. As far as the law itself is concerned, it has been proposed that the fund can function as a stock company, with the Republic of Serbia having 51% of its majority ownership. It should be pointed out that the fund does not function as a commercial institution, i.e. the interest on which it places funds is significantly less than the commercial banks do. It's said to be a maximum of 5%. On the other hand, an analysis has been made, where commercial banks have this between 15% and 20%. Who could be interested in being a shareholder in such a non-profit organization, where they can place their resources on significantly worse terms than if they were a shareholder of a commercial bank? What's someone's interest in, except that maybe in the perspective, you don't do what Mr. Dinkic fought hard against. You remember the situation when in some similar institutions, where the state was a majority owner, there were votes where certain majority shareholders voted in favour of minority shareholders. Mr. Dinkic fought hard against it. I'm surprised something was suggested that might point to something similar in perspective?- I'm sorry. It's an interesting way of forming a board of directors. It absolutely reflects the situation of today's coalition. The Management Board is not elected, but becomes a member of the Management Board, apparently by automation. The board of directors has members who are directly representatives of the ministry, the president is the minister in charge of economic affairs, and members are the minister in charge of finance affairs, the minister in charge of labour and social policy affairs, the minister of infrastructure and the minister of trade and services, the exact proportion of the coalition agreement, because representatives of all parties are represented. What happens if we pass this law, and in the announced reconstruction of the ministries, the number of ministries changes and there is no one in the new government? Are we going to have to discuss this law again and change the board of directors? Isn't that simpler, if there's already a coalition partners agreement, let the government choose the members, let's, by urgent procedure, deliver them, and let's see. On the other hand, it's common that there is two degrees in decision-making. In this case, the Minister for Economics and Regional Development is the chairman of the Management Board, but the ministry is also responsible for the overall control of the agency's work. Let the government decide which variant they want, and we'll see how it works. Have you thought about building a development bank instead of a fund like this? Why the bank? Why not the fund? For example,. The bank is subject to much stricter conditions under which it should operate. The bank's work control is incomparably rigorous, rather than controlling the work of a fund like this. If the state already wants to subsidise loans and give favourable conditions, there is no reason not to do so if it has a development bank in which it is the majority owner. I have no doubt that there are good intentions behind all of this, but as long as we do not solve the reasons for which there are problems in Serbia, as long as we solve only the consequences, then legal solutions will not be good enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-09-0.u17260	Thank you. The word is Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic. Please reapply so I can include you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-09-0.u17261	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, whenever you appear in a assembly debate, even if we of the LDP are considering the consequences of such a session. The last time you were here was when we discussed the laws that followed the budget for this year. You spoke for two or three minutes, then you were succeeded by the Minister of Faith, and the assembly ended up with an alleged scandal for which the MPs were accused because they voted for one amendment and thus amended the Excise Act. At that time, we thought that the finance minister had to be at that session, that she had to address Parliament in time to say the adverse consequences of the amendment vote behind which the ruling coalition party stood. She didn't do it, neither did you, although you were present, I'm not surprised that the Minister of Faith didn't do it, but since you read what you or someone wrote in your name, it tells us that you're actually looking forward to this debate ending, so you can go your separate ways. Here in the congregation, we couldn't do our job if we agreed to one such intention. Despite the president's arguments, I still find it totally unsustainable to discuss the urgent procedure of the law that has been in effect for four years, I think of the chamber law, that it is totally unacceptable to discuss this law and ignore the protests of absolutely all regional chambers of commerce and the Chamber of Commerce of Serbia, and that it is particularly unacceptable to give you such great freedom and rights as you ask of Parliament, when adopting a law on a fund for the development of the Republic of Serbia. It's the government's fund. At this point, we need a share of responsibility. You do not open the space for our participation in solving the crisis that burdens everyone in this country. There is no individual, there is no party, and there is no government that can offer its own answers to the crisis that Serbia is facing today, because no one has tried it past us, whether we're talking about America, Western Europe, Asia, Latin America. In each environment, agreements are made that are much wider than the format of the government that manages the society. You have proposed a new law on the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia. You have not said a single word about the results of the Fund's work so far and which has worked since 1992. Did he justify the expectations? Any sign of any failures? What's different about the new concept of the fund besides the rights we give to one man? The chamber life in Serbia was being regulated for 150 years and it lasted until Mladjan Dinkic, and then Mladjan Dinkic was contacted by economic operators, so Mladjan Dinkic, in the interest of the Chamber of Commerce which protestes, decided to adopt a regulation that is directly contrary to all regulations governing the economies of normal European countries. You quoted Croatia and Slovenia, you could also quote Republika Srpska, but the question is when Croatia and Slovenia will change their decisions, as Republika Srpska did and return to the solutions that are standard and applicable in all EU economies, all developed. In Italy, membership in the Chamber of Commerce is mandatory, membership is mandatory in Spain, although it was voluntary, so it was changed, in Germany, in Austria. Then we need to talk about the intentions and motives behind this. Why is it important for the government to now vote in favour of a law that will take effect in four years? You didn't answer that. You have not put up with a single sentence to explain your own initiative. Then we can assume that you are, in fact, looking for desirable partners who will applaud you at the moment at which everyone condemns you. You have done so successfully, but with some unions that have always shown more understanding for the interests of the government than for the interests of those who are obliged to represent. You are now planning to form parallel chambers of commerce. What's that gonna lead to? If companies are unhappy with existing relations, then they should solve it within their own chambers of commerce. They're entitled to something like that there. Where's the government's right to do that? Article 1 The Chamber of Commerce Act says: "The Chambers of Commerce are interesting, independent and business-professional organisations, enterprises, entrepreneurs and other forms of organisation that are carrying out economic activities that link the common business interest in a particular area or territory in the Republic of Serbia. ''Where did you get the right, as representatives of the Government, to arrange relations in the Chamber of Commerce, after the economic operators came to you, so they asked you to do so? Did they try that at the Chamber of Commerce? You owe us those answers. Thank you, Mr. Marash. ) Here, I received a thank-you note from the Presidents of the Assembly of the Regional Chamber of Commerce of Subotica, because they understood you in previous contacts and realized that you, in fact, removed this law and did not allow the debate in an emergency procedure. I'm only talking about the problems that exist. To what do we have to tolerate so much one ministry that is so dysfunctional and irresponsible? We have Minister Dinkic, who will be the chairman of this fund's board of directors, so Minister Dinkic will control himself from the post of supervisory board, so Minister Dinkic will have the strength to do this job, in addition to being Deputy Prime Minister of Economy, Minister of Tourism, Minister of Business, Minister of Privatisation, Minister of Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs. I think you owe me an explanation. We are in the mood to reform the existing development fund, so that it will not be a party. Look how far we got after two years of your National Investment Plan. The country went bankrupt, our economy broke down, and you think that's funny. I suggest you go to Divchibar to get the wire you made there in an election campaign, to underline and see how much profit you've brought to the country with that cabler, and then come here to Parliament and make an account for every village of Poppkin that you've made in the numerous election campaigns left behind. That's what you intend to do with this fund. This is the government's fund, and that's what it's supposed to be called. What's the government gonna do with all the money he's got? The crisis requires a division of responsibility, and you run away from it. You are looking for instruments that, past existing institutions, will be able to continue working in the way that has led us to this crisis, because it is not true that Serbia is paying today the price of disturbances in the world economy. We pay a lot more for the price of irresponsible policy, which has been implemented for years. The purchase of the "Telecom of Republika Srpska" for 700m euros two years ago, and for this we paid 250m more than the second bidder, so that today "Telecom of Serbia" would fall apart by credit obligations to Siti Bank, which can no longer be reconciled or reconciled with terrible efforts and no one is responsible for it. You promised 1,000-euro shares, so you told us that there was none of it, because the value of the stock fell on all the markets in the world. What world stock market or in Serbia was the value of a 1,000-euro stock when you spoke about it, and you, Mrs. Kalanovic, and your party chief? What stock exchange established the value of the 1,000-euro stock when you promised the citizens that money? Six public enterprises were foreseen for privatisation and it was clear in the beginning that you are misleading people, because it is impossible to expect 30 billion euros through that privatisation, as long as it takes to single out 15% and five billion, which will then be distributed to citizens who have applied for the action. You can't lie in politics. It can't be done without being held accountable. What is happening to us now is a direct consequence of an untrue and incorrect relationship to society. The chambers of commerce cannot be reformed without agreement with the chambers of commerce, because they exist for 150 years. Since 1857, companies have been organising and regulating their relations in this country. What kind of economy is this where companies report to the economy minister and ask him to resolve relations within their organization? What's the problem that's been seen so far? And so far, businesses have organized themselves into organisations parallel to the Chamber of Commerce. We had a union of entrepreneurs, we have it today, we have a Serbian business club. It all works in one normal way, but what now seems to be the result of the direct government's weakness and inability to define in an economic crisis, on an equal basis, the rights and obligations with those who are part of that economic space, which is economic. Just as in the political segment of this political crisis, you don't want an equal relationship with those you have to have with, if that crisis needs to be resolved. This is why there is no support, because of the way we were introduced into this debate, because of the absence of any justification, because of the chaotic proposal that, by emergency procedure, contrary to the interests of the chambers of commerce, regional chambers of commerce, the Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber of Commerce of Serbia, we adopt a law that will enter into force in 2013. As far as this fund is concerned, they've talked a lot about it and the critics of the law themselves so far. We can only add to these criticisms a great doubt in the ability of those who will have the means, to have these resources in a reasonable manner. We think that there will be a repeat of all the harmful situations that have followed the spending of public money, above all I mean the National Investment Plan, which has left behind nothing but a terrible deficit that we can't cover now, except for these radical cuts, which we don't decide exactly because of what you're thinking about new elections. The Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia is needed, but on a different basis. We suggest you form a bank. We're interested in what about the Fund's funding for development? How much funding does the Development Fund have at this point? It's a five-million-dollar founding role we're talking about. What about the other money? How much money do you plan to operate in the future? The motives you state are partially acceptable. It is true that we need an institution that can act effectively in the situation in which we are now, but this institution cannot be effective if there are valid rules because they are ineffective, because these institutions cannot lead to an improvement in the situation, as it stems from the situation that is causing the crisis that is rocking our society. So a few simple answers you have to give in this debate. If you do not have those answers, then there is no need for the ruling majority to vote for these laws. I received a memo, all regional chambers of commerce in Serbia are absolutely against this law. That's funny to you. Excuse me, we can't make decisions here that are in the interest of one party, one president or one ministry. We here have to make decisions that are in the interest of those who have made these chambers of commerce, 150 years exist. Tell us which business subjects contacted Mladjan Dinkic and told him – please, Dinkic, let us now organize you, since we are not able to organize ourselves?- I'm sorry. Who asked? What kind of authority is that? In Europe's most healthy economies, this is the postulate of association between companies. Mandatory membership, why? Because that's how the organization is nurtured. We'll have 50 chambers of commerce. The Belgrade Chamber of Commerce has 95,000 companies and 200,000 entrepreneurs, and you predict that commercial chambers are established with 50 members. How many chambers of Belgrade will we have in a month that will applaud and admire you, and you will visit them in election campaigns. There's something that's above one party and one government. That's the public interest. This public interest obliges us to respect tradition, to change what must be changed, if there are any defects, but we do not notice them, and to return in a very clear way to the frameworks of reasonable action those who have come out of these frameworks long ago, and that is, above all, your policy, Mrs Kalanovic, a policy that you exercise as a representative of an option in the government. When will you take responsibility for what happened in this country?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-09-0.u17262	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Vladan Batic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-09-0.u17263	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, as regards the proposal for a law on chambers of commerce, which I want to talk about, it was first announced here, in the material for this session, that the government's representative will be Vice-President and Minister for Economy and Regional Development Mladjan Dinkic. He's not here to hear what the MPs want to say. With all due respect and respect, Mrs Kalanovic, you explained in your first sentence the essence of the idea for all these laws, including the law on amendments and additions to the Law on Chambers of Commerce. That first sentence of yours contains two nonsensions. Look out, in one sentence, two nonsens! You first said you were fighting about institutions that support the government. Where did you read that, where did it say it? Read the first member of the Chamber of Commerce Act, when you have come to represent the Government, not to say something that is nonsensical to logic, not matter, for common sense. The chambers are independent, they have no obligation to support the government. You can see why you're changing the Chamber Act. In the follow-up to that one sentence unit, you say: "Institutions supporting the government should work faster and more efficiently", and the law should take effect in four years. That really doesn't make sense. As if MPs were retarded, as if the citizens of Serbia, who listen to what you said, were mentally lagging behind. Please apologize to the MPs and to all the citizens for this nonsensical statement! The chambers exist, as some MPs have already pointed out, for over 150 years. Just to tell you what nonsense this proposal is and the wish of Mladjan Dinkic to make a similar chamber after the merger of five, six ministries. In Belgrade, you have 42,000 companies, which means that according to your version of the law, only on Belgrade's territory would there be 84,000 chambers. I'm talking about theoretical possibility, 42,000 per 50, times two, so 84,000. That's funny. I'm just saying, just so that the Minister of Economy and Regional Development would be the owner of the chamber, to be as successful as he was when he shut down four major state banks, when he formed and privatised the "National Savings Bank", as he was successful in privatising the "Knjiza Milos", "Bora", for the return of the Cypriot couples, Syrian oil, Czech debt, Russian gas and, in the end, the deception and lies of all Serbian citizens that he would receive 1,000 euros in the name of free actions, according to that people's "not a lip ass to green grass" and, finally, these pre-election promises related to "Fiat". Europe's leading countries mean mandatory membership and that's something that's an axiom, you say - some former communist countries. No, but the EU's leading countries have mandatory membership. The matter is quite clear, your party chief, Minister of Economy and Regional Development wants to transfer chambers of commerce beyond the will of all regional chambers of commerce and beyond the will of all economic operators. You know, he knows better than they know what's good for them. They say, "We won't change anything," "No, you'll change it, you'll see it's better for you!" No further argument is required.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-09-0.u17264	The word is Marina Ragush, representative of the SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-09-0.u17265	Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Minister, the SRS in the first place would be very interested, let's say, to have cameras involved in the work of the government, and in particular to be familiar with the work of certain Committees of the Government of Serbia, because it seems to me that at that time we would have a complete picture of what is actually happening and how a draft law lives, as it is considered to improve the lives of Serbian citizens. At the beginning of today's session, I only provided some information, which is the economic and social climate of the Serbian state, which paints a very frantic picture of Serbia. What is the indicator that the government should be thinking about is that 56% of Serbian citizens think Serbia is going the wrong way, that the topics that need to be talked about are unemployment, economics, living standards and corruption. So what the opposition MPs, first of all, tried to put on the agenda in this parliament long before the government actually admitted that Serbia was heading towards recession. – Let me remind you, your party boss first denied us then and said there will be no recession in Serbia. We got a real media satanization for the answer. Then, also, let me remind you, when talking about the economic and social situation in the state of Serbia, corruption and organised crime should be discussed first. Then elsewhere, we should talk about the final account of public enterprises. In third place, there should be a review of all final accounts. So what should be the assumption of all these talks is that Serbia's citizens are clearly told where their money is going and what interests, which are being carried out by the government of the Republic of Serbia, because it does not implement Serbians. We have concrete economic indicators that primates in Serbia have foreign banks that make fantastic profits, with interest most on the territory of Europe; that we do not have development banks that will deal with, say, investing in the Serbian economy, because Serbian economy, in fact, does not exist; that domestic businesses are put aside and brought to the brink of bankruptcy, even when they join together, have no chance of competing for certain jobs; that the unemployment rate will reach 18% and exceed that figure; that in Serbia over half a million people live below the poverty line. We are free to say that the Serbian government is carrying out the interests of America, Britain, the EU, not Serbia. What is also one of the significant indicators, and that is what the citizens say, we have been interrupted in this process to try to bring representatives of the executive government here to Parliament and to open a public discussion. We must openly say that the Serbian government was afraid of it. What did we get in return? Restriction of talking about it through the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Assembly. It is not written in Serbian media, these are topics that are not touched. Let's see which tycoons are behind what's going on in Serbia. Let's see where the privatisation funds went. This crisis has brought to the surface all those black holes that the government can't patch up right now. Let's see who's standing directly behind Mr. Dinkic behind Mr. Cvetkovic! Let's see if this is a show of a man named Boris Tadic, whether Serbia has become an occupation zone of Boris Tadic, whether it is Mr Tadic of Serbia making a two-party system in which he will rule along with Nikolic! (Tomislav Nikolic, from place: Yes. ) Here, I have confirmation from Mr. Nikolic, who throws and says yes. We know that, but the Serbian public doesn't know that you're a project of England and America. (Tomislav Nikolic, from place: Yes. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-09-0.u17266	Please, Mr. Nikolic, do not disturb the speaker. No, it's nice to meet you. The people in Serbia need to know, this is all confirmed by Mr Nikolic. So Mr. Nikolic goes to the American and English ambassador and then listens to what he has to say. The SRS enters the Serbian people, and then listens to what needs to be done. It's a story to tell here in the Serbian Parliament. America, Britain, Brussels, they're doing their best here. Here, deny it, Mrs Kalanovic, give the indicators that we see that Serbia has a business, that employment is growing, that we can withstand the financial crisis that we have entered. Here, as I've been listening carefully to arguments for days, I'll listen to you. What is very important, and this poll shows that not the SRS did not make, but rather, the institution of the Republican Party of America is said to be the result that 56% of citizens think Serbia is going the wrong way, that from October 2008 to March 2009 from 35% to 46% of those citizens who claim to live worse than in 2000 and that from 35% to 23% of citizens who believe they live better than nine years ago have fallen from 35% to 23%. These are serious indicators, Mrs. Kalanovic. Let's move on, 58% of respondents to the Serbian government's move assesses the unit and the two. Perhaps these assessments, according to those who conducted this survey, would have been better if the poll hadn't been conducted in the period when the government came to a fantastic formula to tax incomes over 12,000 dinars per month. It's a disaster, people! You have a situation that the nominal value of all receipts in Serbia has fallen, drastically down, people with these incomes can't, if the consumer basket, basic life supplies, with rising prices, 80,000 per month, we have poverty in Serbia. Then we also had a fantastic formula to freeze all receipts and prices to jump. Please, we are truly confident and assured by the Government every day that it does not carry out Serbian interests, it is carrying out the interests of obviously certain financial powers, tycoon and certain other states. So, what 87% of citizens think will personally be affected by the global financial crisis, the Serbian government is only beginning to think about the topic recently and we think it's too late. The Serbian parliament has not seen the government's measures in the first place. Also, citizens are convinced that they will feel the consequences of the crisis on their own skin, even though they know that the government, of course, is not to blame. So 58% of citizens believe that the government cannot take measures that can alleviate the troubles that we have all experienced. Research shows in which areas the government is expected to react decisively and quickly. These are unemployment, economics, living standards, corruption, Kosovo and Metohija, crime. The bread more important than politics is the most important message the government can read in this research. So 67% of citizens say they're not interested in politics, and 34% say they're interested. Those 67% of citizens already know that politics in Serbia is being tailored by the United States, Great Britain and the EU. In particular, Mrs Kalanovic, let me ask you, what happened to the Serbian Development Fund so far? What is also very important to us, and it is, again, we would like the cameras to enter the government's meeting, and especially to the work of certain committees, so let's see whose interests are intertwined and who represents what interests and who is actually working for. It is evident that the executive power is clearly full of lobbyists by the EU. We're $30 billion in debt. We do have more and more burdens and more and more debt. The logical question is, who's going to pay for it? Who in Serbia will be able to bring it back?- I'm sorry. What is frantic, and we have received not only a letter from the Chamber of Commerce, and in the first place of the Chamber of Commerce of Serbia and other chambers of commerce, there were words about it, I would not like to repeat myself, because I want to take advantage of now only 10 minutes, is the address of Mr. Predrag Milosavljevic to Mr. Mladjan Dinkic, who believes that this bill should be withdrawn from the procedure. We have a terriblely dissonant tone in the government itself compared to this bill. We will later in the time foreseen for the SRS Parliamentary Group to show in detail to the Serbian public whose particular interests are being dealt with here and what the Serbian public here can count on. – Can the public in Serbia count on the executive authority to manage to carry out its interests? Our political belief is that the executive power in Serbia does not exercise the interests of the Serbian people and that this is the basic reason why we do not have representatives of the Government of the Republic of Serbia here! - Because they can't give public attention to these questions, and that's why other things are being talked about in Serbia. Smoke signals are being sent to Serbia to deal with other concrete things. Who performs and exercises the interests of other countries in the territory of the Serbian state?- I'm sorry. Thank you. Thank you, Mrs. Ragush. I would like to remind that representatives, or presidents of parliamentary groups, are getting a word in the order of the announcement, the word is Mr Mladen Grujic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-09-0.u17268	The Honorable Chairman, dear colleagues, the Honorable Madam Minister, I have held a hearing on the law on chambers of commerce. In some lines, I agree with your proposal, because I believe that the chambers of commerce as they are today are a burden on the back of the Serbian economy. I don't know how many people here know, business memberships don't pay businesses, they pay employees. I'll just give a few information, which is very interesting to the general public. For example, in the commercial sector employees make 0.44% of gross wages. If the average gross salary in Serbia's trade is about 35,000 dinars, that means everyone gives 150 dinars a month. There are about a million and 800,000 employees in Serbia, God forbid there are so many, but suppose there are millions and 800,000, which means, for the operation of all the chambers of commerce in Serbia, which regionally, which Serbian Chamber of Commerce, the employees in Serbia, stand out 270 million dinars a month. It's a huge amount of money that no one, no one, knows how and what they spend, except that we know that their wages are good and that they live well. We all remember here the announcement by the president of the Serbian Chamber of Commerce from last year, that the moment had matured that a magnificent new Chamber of Commerce building would be built in New Belgrade, which would represent the successes of the Serbian economy. To be clear, that building was supposed to be funded by all of us with that 270 million dinars a month from mandatory membership fees. I agree that in Europe, in some countries, Germany, Italy, Austria, membership in chambers is mandatory, but I suppose they have better control systems as money is spent. I'm telling you, I was willing to support your proposal to some extent. I think it's completely unnecessary and completely irrelevant, because you, Madam Minister, have no support for this law within your government. You will not pass this law, not because of us, because of the opposition. We might even vote for some law that you suggest makes sense. Your government colleagues won't pass this law. For the simple reason, that's what we've been talking about for the past few months, your government has made up of 16 parties, party girls, stakeholders and you can't get along and figure out how to get 127 MPs. We can discuss whether it's a good proposal or not. We heard some opposition parties that are absolutely against it. We in New Serbia are never aporeors against the law because it comes from the government. On the contrary, I give you my word that we will respond to the first excessive law by voting for it. Even this one is relatively close, but it's stupid for us as an opposition to support this law when you failed to convince your coalition partners of this law. As far as the Chamber of Commerce is concerned, in general, this way Serbia's Chamber of Commerce is currently functioning, it is not good. I believe that Serbia's Chamber of Commerce is currently not doing what its primary job is, to represent the interests of its members. Some of its functions are successful, e.g. collecting membership fees, but what's their basic idea doesn't work. We talk about budget savings all the time. The Chamber of Commerce is not on the Republic of Serbia's budget, but is funded from the pockets of every citizen and every employee. I don't know how to define that. Surely, for Serbia's economy, savings would be if the mandatory membership fee were removed. I'm not getting in the way you're, and I'm getting the wrong impression you're conjecturing a new proposal from the Chamber of Commerce. So, I'm going to be very brief, I'm going to say at the end of the debate first to hear all the amendments to this law, and I assume that the key amendment will be to Article 9, where the issue of mandatory membership in the Chamber of Commerce is treated and it will be very interesting which of your coalition partners suggested that this member be changed. We'll wait for the day of the vote. I wouldn't be surprised if you pulled this bill before the vote so you wouldn't be ashamed if it hadn't gone through the Assembly. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-09-0.u17269	The People's Messenger Milan Nikolic has the word. After him, the Messenger of the people, Vlajko Senić, and the Messenger of the people, Tomislav Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-09-0.u17270	I would like to reiterate to the public that we are discussing three very important economic laws today: the draft law on the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia, the draft law on the termination of the Law on the Insurance and Financing of Foreign Trade and the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Chambers of Commerce. When it comes to the draft law on the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia, it is good to regulate the position, way of financing, business, governance, labour control, supervision and other issues of importance for the work of the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia. Although the laws and amendments on the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia and the Fund have been adopted in a timely manner for more than 16 years, the flow of time and socio-economic change have made the Fund develop and expand its activities so that the need for a specific law is necessary to define the way the Fund works and to regulate itself in adequately modified socio-economic, social and political relations. The work of the Fund shall, above all, be directed towards promoting a balanced regional development, including the development of underdeveloped areas in a way that promotes the business of credit-based legal entities, by giving legal and physical persons in the undeveloped area of long-term and short-term loans and by issuing guarantees on loans. In light of the new measures, the Government of the Republic of Serbia introduces three programmes: financing a business with business banks, providing guarantees for liquid assets of banks, subsidising loans for the maintenance of liquidity and financing of permanent side funds and subsidising consumer loans. Also, in line with the economic policy measures the government is taking to mitigate the economic crisis, the adoption of this law shuts down the Guarantee Fund, bringing together activities within the Development Fund, making it more rational and co-ordinated. In this way, even more intensively stimulates economic development, more equal regional development, encourages employment, development of the capital market, as well as the development of funding instruments. The proposal says that since it is now a single fund, the same legal and natural persons that are being allocated to the Fund cannot issue guarantees. Otherwise, the Fund may issue guarantees on behalf of the security of credit to banks which finance programmes for the development of economic operators. Credits cannot be granted to enterprises with social capital, as well as to public enterprises, which we consider to be absolutely fine. The funds for carrying out the work of the fund are overly provided from the fund's income, as well as from the funds of the Republic of Serbia's budget. The bill is quite well regulated by fund bodies, risk protection and business policy, especially in the part of the development of underdeveloped areas, so the SPS Group believes that this is a good law, that three additional programmes will be implemented through it, which are shared with the aim of increasing the liquidity of the real sector, while on the other hand reducing the cost of lending and other costs, thus preserving the competitiveness of national economies on domestic and market, import, conservation, employment. In voting day, we will support this bill. The draft law on the termination of the Act on the Insurance and Financing of Foreign Trade Fund provides for the termination of the Act on the Insurance and Financing of Foreign Trade Companies, which was adopted in 2002, while at the same time the Agency for Insurance and Export Financing is taking over from the Fund of Employees, Rights and Obligations, Monetary and Non-business Assets, Objects, Equipment, Labour and Archive with effect on the day of entry into force of this Act. In fact, the same business was done by two institutions, and the result was overlapping jobs, bureaucratic procedures and increased jobs. These two institutions made sense at the time of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, where the functions and competences of the fund were placed at the federal level and at the republic's level of the agency. By the end of the existence of the SRJ, work and efficiency, we consider it a rational proposal that one of these institutions, the promoter, in this case, has been identified as an agency, assumes rights and obligations, employees, cash and non-business assets, equipment, resources for the work and archive of the Fund and acts as a single institution. Also, the SPS Group – JS will be defined in the voting day for this law. Ladies and gentlemen, when it comes to the proposal for a law on chambers of commerce, I would like to stress that the need for an interesting association between entrepreneurs is permanent and very old, over 400 years old. In Serbia, the first forms of chamber association appear 150 years ago. I've been in Serbia's economy for almost 40 years. I've been a member of the board of directors of the Chamber of Commerce several times, so I've been through a lot with the functioning of the chamber system. The chambers and chamber systems were organised differently over a period of 150 years. They evolved in their development and contributed greatly to the development of Serbia's economy. I am well aware of the Law on the Chambers of Serbia, which was passed in 2001, and I also seem to understand the law that the Government of the Republic of Serbia passed to the Assembly for adoption. First of all, I believe that problems in the functioning of Serbia's economy since the 1990s have largely affected the organisation and efficiency of the functioning of Serbia's chambers and chamber systems. Along with the collapse of the old Yugoslavia, the chamber fell apart, followed by a period of intense transition in Serbia's economy. Disintegration processes and transition processes have brought the chamber system into trouble, especially in representing the interest of the economy in these processes. Personally, I have much to resent the chamber, for its inconsistencies and inadequate adaptation, to find its place in a more efficient and fruitful operation, in order to help the economy in many segments – starting with privatisation, with more intense contacts with governments that have changed, and especially in the part of the promotion of exports that we needed after the embargo and many problems this country has had. Current efforts taken and significant activities aimed at increasing the integrity of the chamber system and more efficient performance in chambers are good. The research launched, with the aim of comparative analysis of chamber systems applied in the European Union and the laws that regulate them, creates a presumption of strategic development of the Serbian Chamber of Commerce and the adoption of a conflict law, which will place the chamber as a representative of the overall national economy, in relations with the government, in relations with the legislative and executive authority and in particular with the world. In addition to subjective weaknesses, and probably due to the failure of the interest of businessmen, in the changed ownership structure, Serbia's Chamber of Commerce is now collecting membership fees from only 17% to 18% of the total number of enterprises that are members of the Serbian Chamber of Commerce, so that in that part of the Serbian Chamber is in a fairly independent position. The bill provides for the application of the so-called Anglo-American model – voluntary membership of economic operators, in such a way that at least 50 businessmen can organise the Chamber, depending on their interests, regardless of whether it is territorial or structural association. This system is applied by America, Belgium, England and other countries in Europe, such as Slovenia, Macedonia, Romania, Bulgaria, and has then abolished the importance, as I have already said, of this law on voluntary association and the Chamber of Republika Srpska. I must note, that the transition from compulsory to voluntary membership of the organisation of chambers in Serbia opens up a number of serious issues and problems that must be resolved. The chambers established on the principle of voluntary membership are private law institutions, which establish businesses and provide them with property and funding. The transition from compulsory to voluntary membership raises the issue – the property of existing chambers in Serbia, which is not so small. The law stipulates that in the event of a reduction in the number of chamber members below 50, such a chamber is introduced into bankruptcy and the property goes into the budget of the Republic of Serbia – as is true of the existing national, regional and regional chambers of commerce. The National Chamber of Commerce, for example, two circuit chambers and 16 regional chambers possess a business space of no less than 150,000 square meters, at the best locations of cities, where they are based, and these areas are mainly built from the funds of Serbia's economy and then Yugoslavia, and the legal successor of that property is now the Chamber of Serbia. If, by law, by any chance, the National Chamber of Commerce goes into bankruptcy, I don't think it's right for economic operators to be transferred to the budget in this way, rather than to be transferred to members of those chambers, who built those funds with their memberships. However, a big problem is immediately being opened – how and what criteria do the members have to share, conditionally speaking, part of the cake? In addition to the number of objective and subjective weaknesses, the existing Chamber of Commerce owns professional personnel, one of the best databases on the economy and a large number of foreign chambers. I think that by applying this law -- a lot of things will go out and there will be a lot of good relations between this chamber as it is, with the chambers of the world. The Chamber, established under the new law, will be in great advantage because their behaviour, unlike the existing system of chamber organisations, will be marketable and will be more committed to solving the problems of its members. However, hundreds of them will be depreciated this way and will not be able to partner with the legislative and executive authorities, especially in the adoption of economic laws, because they simply do not represent the integrated interests of the overall economy. If a more efficient and rational organisation system of the mini chamber is to be created, this goal will probably be achieved, but the experiences from the environment are talking – that such decapitated chambers cannot support the organisation of export promotion, and especially the organisation of representation abroad. Within 50 members of the new chambers, there is a danger that almost each of them will find one large one that will impose on the realisation of their interests while neglecting the interests of small entrepreneurs. All these dilemmas stand open, and we need to pass the law. I believe it was necessary to include, through public debate, a large number of businessmen who would very clearly define what kind of chamber organisation they needed to satisfy their interests. It was also necessary to consult experts from the country and abroad. The views of Mr Melering and Mr Light, which were published in the materials of the magazine "Step", have been observed, where they have done a very plastically comparative analysis of the European continental model of mandatory membership and the Anglo-American model of voluntary membership. It was also necessary to examine the application of already passed laws on mandatory membership, in the case of - France, Germany, Austria, Spain, Greece, etc., as well as the application of the Law on Voluntary Membership in the case of: America, Belgium, Bulgaria, Romania, Macedonia, Slovenia, etc. I'm only going to count some of these laws in segments. In France, the annual budget of the chamber system, mainly membership fees, is around 4 billion euros, and around 900m euros is spent on education of businessmen in 500 education institutions, which annually visits about 600,000 people. France has two million chamber companies, as well as 112 representing in 75 countries. In Germany, in 81 national and regional chambers 3,700,000 economic operators were joined. In Austria, a small country by population and territory, the national Chamber of Commerce employs over 400 experts in foreign representations, calling diplomatic representatives and owning 107 such representations. It is likely due to this that it generates an annual export of 160 billion euros. Russia, a large country and a country with intensive development attaches enormous importance to the organisation and functioning of the National Chamber of Commerce. The data is that for many years the president of the Chamber of Commerce, Mr. Yevgeny Primakov, has talked enough about the importance of this chamber. National chambers in all these countries apply the principle of mandatory membership and mandatory membership fees that are not large, and the economic power of the chamber is extremely strong, especially according to three strategic partners. By contrast, Belgium applying a voluntary membership system has 25,000 members and 300 employees in the chamber system. In Britain, of the 160 chambers organised on a voluntary basis, only 60 met the conditions and criteria for accreditation, which means that they do not have adequate organisation and quality. Again, Republika Srpska returns to the application of the Law on Mandatory Association. Romania and Bulgaria have serious problems. There is almost no chamber system in Macedonia. A broad debate could record the problems of functioning the development of the chamber system more precisely – in the part of the adequateness of the organised system, the provision of critical mass of chamber members to represent and represent the holders of executive and legislative authorities, in creating an institutional and business social environment, the transfer of public authority from the state to the chamber, the functioning of the chamber system as a single system, without the independence of the province and regional chambers and the representation of chamber members and the chamber system abroad. A comparative analysis of the application of a mandatory and voluntary membership model could be made, with particular emphasis on the advantages and disadvantages of such an organisation system. The advantages of mandatory membership are: representing interest and providing support to all industrial and commercial service companies, regardless of their size, strong negotiating position of the chamber system, strong concentration of diverse and professional personnel, the possibility of providing support through the education and information of all members, surely funding with an enviable amount of funding due to the number of members, the possibility of selecting the best personnel to represent national economy abroad, a strong database, the results achieved by organising the chamber system in transition countries. The failures of this system are obvious and they are: the possibility of insufficient interest of chambers to perform their functions in representing the interests of members, because through compulsory financing a stable financial position is without risk, lack of competition and market behaviour, insufficient hearing for the selective development of underdeveloped areas, the inability to effectively control chambers by their members, in particular with regard to representing interest and supporting all. The advantages of optional membership or voluntary membership consist in the fact that chambers are organised as strict private rights organisations and are not organised by law, so that they are highly committed to the satisfaction and protection of the interests of members, in order to preserve them by themselves. Such an organisation of the chamber system is subject to rigorous market principles, which creates uncertainty and competition between chambers and conditions of constant development and improvement of services. The chambers have great freedom of association and organization with employers. The transparency of the work of such a chamber system is far greater and the possibility of introducing accreditation eliminates the failure. The failures of this system consist in the fact that the chambers are fully commercially defined, financial uncertainty brings them into a position of difficult preservation of independence, there is a danger of the impact of a large business on chamber management, the lack of an organisational structure of the chamber system makes it difficult to control and coordinate work, it is not possible to transfer public powers to such a chamber system, the procedure for establishing relations with public authorities, the inability to organise a network abroad and the unsatisfactory results of applying optional membership in countries and the environment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-09-0.u17271	People's MP, 20 minutes has been used.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-09-0.u17272	The JS Parliament Club and the PUPS have submitted several amendments. We hope that our amendments will be well considered and accepted, after which we will make a decision on support. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-09-0.u17273	The People's Messenger Vlajko Senic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-09-0.u17274	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Madam Minister, I apologize for not being here from the beginning as an authorised representative, in the second building we had an important session of the Security Committee. I will start with this last law that Mr Nikolic spoke of, just to highlight the difference between the proposing and the arguments that Mr Nikolic made. In fact, I would say that all of what he has listed as shortcomings, I consider as the advantages of the chambers of commerce to be organised by a new principle and, quite frankly, you can present a large number of arguments for and against, to make proposals and examples of countries that have mandatory membership, but I think it is inadequate to set Serbia's economic situation so that we can compare our country with France, Austria, Spain and some other EU countries that are, unfortunately, far ahead of us. This is a key word, and it is an institution reform and should be said at the outset, I must say, to my regret this law comes into force only on 1 January 2013, if some people who do their job, as Mr Nikolic said, and I am sure he knows it well because in those structures it is long, good, quality and capable, I see no reason why these same people, the same infrastructure, the same frames cannot be prepared for a completely new and different system in three and a few years. What time has taught us since 2000, so we say in Serbia, is that reforms can only be successful if they are brutal. So that's exactly the kind of word I use because the brutal reform of the banking system that took place in 2000, which has caused great mix-ups in society and which has caused huge resistances and people who have worked there and the institutions and the states, has led us today to have a banking system that is best in the region, which has the greatest capital coverage and which, I am getting us these happy and good circumstances, that reforms were made when there was political will and political strength, allows us to do much easier than some countries in the environment to overcome the economic crisis. I don't think the arguments against the change of the Chamber of Commerce Act absolutely stand, because any privatisation, any situation, when you people who join forces to fight for their market, inevitably leads to such institutions being better. I will use another argument from Mr Nikolic, who I did not know, which is that 17% of companies pay membership fees to the Serbian Chamber of Commerce. The team before, it is good to free these chambers, i.e. business entities of mandatory membership, and to organise much less, more capable and more efficient chambers, because it is pointless that you are a member of a single system without doing your basic obligation, which is that you pay the membership fee. If it turns out in time that only the Chamber of Commerce of Serbia is the institution that can represent our economy in the best possible way, there is no reason why all those economic operators that are now members of the Chamber of Commerce, by law and because it is their obligation, are not reunited on new grounds and thus achieve their interest. I'm not talking negatively about the work of the Chamber of Commerce so far, I'm not even talking positively about future results, I'm talking about the need for one institution to reform and that much better results than they have so far. I believe we will eventually get the support of our coalition partners who have always been good and loyal coalition partners when needed. The other thing I want to say is one technical question, the merger of two agencies dealing with financing and export insurance. The arguments given are, I would say, bureaucratic, which are necessary because we have two agencies dealing with the same business, but what is the essence of this story, which is that as a government, this government, now or any other, future, therefore, this economic crisis has revealed what we all knew, the fundamental lack of our economic system, which is a high external trade deficit. It decreases this year, it will be 13% of the social product, but it does not decrease because our exports are growing, but it decreases because much more imports are falling than exports are growing, so that we should not look forward to doing so much, because when imports, social production and the economy are falling, in general, much slower. Our economy in the coming period must be aggressively export-oriented and, in this sense, it is good to make one of the two existing agencies, to know clearly the competences and rights and to give economic operators much wider and more concrete support, because the letter on the intentions that the IMF has sent us – that is to say, in some medium term, our deficit is 5%. It is not easy to achieve, and I think that in this part of the future we will certainly have the most problems, so we will support this draft law on the merger of these two institutions. I believe we will get from two institutions one that is better and will have much more and resources and capacity and willingness to support our export economy. A point concerning the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia, I would say and observe the country's role in the economic crisis. If you look at the budget deficits of the most powerful countries today, I'll read it, I don't know, I hardly remember numbers, so – America 13.7; Japan – 5.6; Britain – 11.3; Russia – 8; the whole European zone – 5.3. The budget deficit speaks of how active the role of the state is in current economic movements. It's a long time ago, we thought, overcome, forgotten Keynesian economics method came back on the agenda and so it has to be in Serbia. The state must compensate for the lack of export demand. The state has to compensate for the lack of liquid assets. The state must allow citizens to receive consumer credit under more favourable conditions. These are all things that we will be able to do more effectively through the adoption of this bill. It is a good thing that it is now possible for it to be an action society in the future, with the obligation that 51% of ownership, whenever it is, must remain in the hands of the Republic of Serbia. This is important because the Development Fund next to this economic dimension has a very important dimension which is often seen more politically than economically in our country. This is a question of regional development and it is an economic issue, which is often abused for political purposes. The Future Development Fund must take care of those parts of Serbia that cannot, I would say, take note of current market, economic and credit conditions to be in debt and, if so, they would be dramatically lagging behind other parts of Serbia, leading to certain economic, social and political problems. This bill of law has an important matter. In the present, it enables the state of instruments, gives it the power to influence the economy and we don't run away from it. That's what we're talking about. All these measures are state measures to recover the economy, and it opens up space in the future to transform it, to be more modern, not to be 100% state-owned and ultimately to be financially powerful and to be able to play a much greater role. We'll support these three bill proposals. As far as the amendments are concerned, we'll see, but it seems important that when we talk about these bill proposals, we know what the essence is, because there are things that I've been trying to talk about for the past eight and a half minutes behind the so-called names of these laws. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-09-0.u17275	The word has the People's MP Tomislav Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-09-0.u17276	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, DOS should ban someone from being an MP for more than four years and banning him from remembering DOS moves. Here I heard a story about the need to cut rough in Serbia and that's the story of October 5th. You built a lab on October 5th 2000 from Serbia for failures, a laboratory where you proved yourself less capable. One of these experiments or tours was the Chamber of Commerce, on November 20, 2001, and memory serves me well, the law was found before the MPs. He was defended by all DOS members and SPS. It was submitted by formal MPs, members of the Committee on Economic Affairs or whatever it was called, to regulate the chamber organisation of the economy. Instead of one state chamber, we got another. All those who were then assigned to office in the Chamber of Commerce were private. Everybody! No director of a large social enterprise has ever been in the management or control board of the Chamber of Commerce. Vladan Batic has appointed Veselinovic president of the Chamber. Doris Veseinovic organised a vote attended by Justice Minister Batic, so his opponent received only one vote and the DSS protested the results of the vote to elect the director of the Chamber of Commerce. You introduced an NGO that issued public documents, credits, companies that wanted to export, trade, do business. You signed over the socialist system of chambers, said you had implemented the reform, introduced mandatory membership and mandatory membership, membership in the city, regional, regional chamber of commerce, the Serbian Chamber of Commerce, and we came to where we are, that today, eight years later, you were going to tell us that you should have accepted the amendments that we wrote and defended back then. How did this concept happen that you're proposing today? The conflict in the ruling coalition. We've been listening here for days to prevent Dinkic from hijacking the chambers, their property, their capital, because he flew in, like when a wild beast goes through the woods and knocks everything down in front of him, into Serbia's economic system and watches where else there's something else to grab. Instead of you "yellows" standing up and saying that this law cannot pass in a cabinet session, you're putting the National Assembly in a position for it to be a hostage to your conflict. You count yourself here, and some MPs from the ruling coalition say -- they will decide how they will vote. What, then, is this government of yours referring to the bill? That depends on the opposition vote? It's not gonna be like that! You're the one who's doing it yourself. When the day of the vote comes, we would like you to be alone in the O.R., and slap your voices. There is one among you who said on behalf of his party that he will not vote in favour of the chamber law at all, because he is only interested in agriculture, and you do not regulate agriculture. Here he is, sitting in the benches. We'll see what his few MPs, who shake Serbia and take most of all of the budgets for local self-government, see what they do. It's obvious that there are two concepts and it's pointless that you're now theoreticalizing which concept is better. What have you been doing for eight years? And what were the Socialists doing before 30, 40? How long have you been drinking and looking at the Serbian economy? When will it finally be over? When does the economy go away? You praised us for our mandatory membership as a European liquid and said that there are businessmen, they know best, they understand best, they will vote, they will choose and it turns out that the chambers have gone so far as to write to all MPs and ask for the law not to be passed. What does the president of some chamber in some region write to me? Because his position is compromised. Because no one controls how funds are spent. Now what does the G17 plus insist on this organization, with its coalition partners? Do you have any concepts that you can agree on? Is there anything that binds you in this biggest crisis, which could be a buckle for you to pass one law without telling us here in the halls who is pushing this law, who is expecting money, who is going to be bitter about that law? We just want to get involved in it. I see you from the DS have begun to discuss the meetings of the National Assembly. Get in the campaign. Okay. I think we need to hold elections this year and you have the right to discuss the subject, run a campaign, but you can't run that campaign with the G17 plus together in the government. It's immoral. It's cynical. You two have a good time. Do the government's work, then we'll go to the election. But it's nice for you, too, and you're putting up with this company G17 plus that's a little bit of a fight with the whole world right now, not just Russia. Mladjan Dinkic is blackmailing America. I see he's bringing in some buyers for our great giants who are not at the will of Western civilization. And he knows he can't sell them and he can't sell them what's for sale, but he's blackmailing, so he says, "If you're not good and you don't give us any credit, I'll sell this to him and he can make a chemical bomb out of it." The situation is extremely serious. You're here playing with a law that will take effect in four years. That's the most urgent thing we need right now, isn't it? To pass a law that will take effect over four years, and some of the regulations of that law, you will be able to pass in a year, some regulations arising from a law that has not entered into force, and among you there are excellent lawyers and no one can say gentlemen in the government, I'm sorry, but there is no law. Until it comes into force, the law doesn't exist. The government cannot enforce a law that has not entered into force, because then it is not democracy. It's autocracy, then. - What are commercial chambers? A company of private entrepreneurs. By the next law, you completely abolish social enterprises. Yes, in the Constitution, they were abolished, but they exist. As long as they exist, they must have access to both funds and loans and a state that helps their performance. You say here – social enterprises won't be able to contact an agency or a fund. All in advance, to fail as soon as possible, to make it as cheap as possible. There's a tycoon among you. The easiest thing to say is that others are tycoons, others are incompetent, others are stealing, others see that the country is in a difficult situation and now they want to get out for themselves, for their parties some benefits, and all of this is seen by Serbian citizens. Do they believe you today that this is the most important law? - Do people call you and ask you on the phone how much bread will cost? If you freeze his salary and don't freeze the prices, how much will it cost him bread, water, electricity, sewerage, heating, who's happy and has it. No, it's a phone rush – when the law on chambers will take place on the agenda. We hear it here - it's reduced imports. Why don't you tell me how low import income is?- I'm sorry. Why don't you say that by unilaterally applying the Association Agreement, you completely abolished the revenues from imports? And that's why it cuts the budget, and that's why we're in debt, because you're promoting the European economy in Serbia without a dinar. Import their products without customs duties. You are the EU, you have no customs duties for EU member states! You take the credits from those who give us the most rigorous conditions! There's money on the other side. Other people are just asking you to repay your loan, don't ask us to beat us here, to shut us down, to arrest us, to brutally execute the cuts. That doesn't occur to you. You're in a position to make yourself angry. You've made a government that you've unfairly entered with the desire to fight, and that you last, in an argument to last, like a bad marriage. What shame are you to part at last, you 'yellow' and G17? The whole of Serbia suffers your marriage in which you fight, the children suffer. The children of all Serbia suffer from an argument between the 'Yellows' and the G17, and in the government, you keep the sessions on the phone. In normal times, I'd boast that you've accepted our concept of the Chamber of Commerce, but when I see who's pushing that concept, it's for me to keep my mouth shut, and I don't want to talk about what's to be done anymore. You've lost eight precious years to organize chambers properly, not to rob people of membership, not to force them to be members, not to set them up as you wish, not to watch the same representatives of political parties run the chambers of commerce, and all they know is that by cell phone and one act of purse, they earn money. You've evicted the directors of large companies who would now know how to handle themselves very well. Unfortunately, some are very old, run over by time, but you haven't educated new ones. You have nothing to do, you have no one to replace the people you broke up with, and you are disappointed in yours. We don't want to be interested in voting under this law, it's pointless. We're just interested in the discussion. We're interested in whether the DS will support this bill. I cannot understand that you could not support the bill of your government, i.e. I cannot understand that you have allowed a law from the government to the Assembly that you do not agree with and do not allow Mladjan Dinkic to say that this law cannot pass a cabinet session. You young Dinkic can't say anything anymore. You're afraid of the other Young Dinkic, there's one who's good and one who's bad and you never know when that bad guy's gonna talk to you. You're playing with Serbia's fate! By playing, you're getting ready for the election. And here it takes a lot of seriousness. Even those I thought could never direct you to such words yesterday invited you to cooperate, to get Serbia out of it. Do you think it's defeat? No, I don't. The hand stands in the air from all citizens in Serbia who would now help you get them out of the crisis. If you don't understand historical responsibility today, don't hope too much to have the largest number of votes in the next election. If you analyze the elections that are being held, you probably realize that the largest number of votes is no longer your victory. That's why you won't have our support for this law, because it's a one-sided commitment to the conflict in the government. By the way, you come out unitedly, provide 126 MPs, 126 votes "yes", and lead this country with 126 votes. Who doesn't have 126 votes in front of us, this country cannot lead. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-09-0.u17277	Do any of the presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups want the word? The word has a National MP, Momo Colaković. Please report it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-09-0.u17278	Dear Vice-Presidents, the working presidency, the Honorable Minister and Representatives of the Government, the honourable MPs, our PUPS Group will support two draft fund laws and in the voting day we will define ourselves on them. As far as the proposal for a law on chambers of commerce is concerned, I've come forward for two reasons. The first is the thesis of Madam Minister, that they are the chambers of the institutions that will implement the government's programmes, if I understand correctly. If I'm not, I'll see it in my stenographic notes. We think that chambers of commerce cannot be state institutions, they must be partners of the state, they must, together with their members, propose certain solutions in order for the state to create a favourable environment for the work and functioning of the economy. In this context, we see commercial chambers as economic entities, as is said here, but not under the patronage of government and state bodies. In this context, we think that chambers of commerce should be institutions that will form, first of all, the interests of those who will join them, whether on a voluntary basis or under the law, as an obligation. Does this mean that by adopting these laws that bind the Chamber of Commerce, it would accept solutions prescribed by the Minister or the Ministry or the Government? If it is a voluntary merger, then it cannot assume the obligation of the minister to prescribe, either membership or any other act, according to those who have voluntarily joined. This must be left to those who express a good will to join in order to achieve the interests of those entities that become members of these associations. Secondly, how will this partnership, either triple or otherwise, be at our country level if the Chamber of Commerce is under pressure or under the patronage of the state authorities? The third thing I want to point out is that so far we've passed a lot of laws and we've witnessed the division of certain groups, whether it's economic, political, non-governmental organisations or others. We now have a situation that we've divided the unions to the end, as partners of the state. We now have a situation that we have ended up uniting unions as partners of the state. We now have a situation to try to divide the chamber system, as someone here has said, from several chambers to make hundreds of chambers. In that regard, I think the solutions offered here are unacceptable at the moment. We particularly support the respected Mr Nikolic, who spoke about reasons and arguments that should not require the adoption of this law, but should at the very least withdraw even in a more tolerant and professional debate to come to a better solution. In this regard, I would not like to talk more widely about the arguments why we express great reservations under this law. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-09-0.u17279	Do any of the other presidents or authorised representatives want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's Messenger, Vlajko Senić.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-09-0.u17280	I think okay is a political observation. Of course we should always talk in the Assembly about political relations, because here we represent political parties, coalitions. But indeed, the government is made up of different political parties, but the proposals it makes to the Assembly it delivers as part of some common policy it leads. So there are no proposals here for one, the other, or the third or fourth political parties from the government, there are proposals from the competent ministries for which the government in the Assembly is seeking its support. It is normal for the government, above all, to address the parties that form the ruling coalition and that the government does not expect the opposition parties, voting for some laws to support the survival of the ruling coalition. In order for a law to be found on the agenda of the Assembly, you know well how long it takes, how many committees it spends in the government, eventually in the Assembly. At the end of the line, the government is made up of some parties that are coalition partners, there's not exactly this relationship that can't pass the law, there's another majority, but that's why the Assembly is the place where we should talk about some differences. What is the key to this law is the last sentence, that it enters into force in 2013, so no one intended to bring it into force tomorrow and then to happen, as some speakers say, the collapse of a system, etc. I'll remind you that even at best, if this government were to function so well to welcome the next regular elections, I think they'll be in 2012, so enough time for some new coalition to change that law before it comes into force. It is not a question of what will appear on the daily tomorrow and give immediate results, but rather a message of how this system should be organised and how it should function. I think we can talk about advantages and disadvantages here, but we can't impose on economic operators in Serbia how it will be organised. These laws, which are now in force, have been ordered to organise. So they don't have the possibility of a different organization. That's why I'm saying, if this system, this structure of people, or whatever you're looking at, is the only possible solution and they're giving the best results, then I'm convinced that the team before the economic operators will just value their interest to make the same kind of organization. What is the objective of this law is to use, damage, advantages and failures of this system. Why does a business operator have to be a member of some law-based Chamber of Commerce, which does not have that kind of ambition or if it has the ambition to create another species? We don't have any repressive measures in this law that it says - if we don't organize that one and that one in one way and that way, he'll team up with that and that one, then the state will do what I don't know. A very liberal approach and a very broad approach has been proposed that allows economic operators in Serbia since 2013 to determine on this issue what they think is their economic interest. That's why I think this law needs to be supported, just because we're going to release the state from the obligation to deal with things it doesn't have to deal with, anyway, and the tendency is in the world, at least in serious countries, that the state when it's not a crisis is free of those jobs that it doesn't have to do. I deeply hope that in 2013, there will be no crisis like this now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-09-0.u17281	The word was sought by Minister Verica Kalanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-09-0.u17282	Thank you. First of all, I would like to thank all the representatives of the parliamentary groups who have tried to improve both the discussion and the proposed text. I feel an obligation, as a proposer, on behalf of the promoter, to make certain clarifications. First of all, who wrote the opening statement to me as a proposing representative? It wasn't Mr. Dinkic. It was mainly written in comments collected over the past few years at meetings of businessmen I had in Serbia's territory with my colleagues or on my own. A huge number of businessmen made their comments on the work of institutions dealing with precisely supporting economic operators. And if I said these laws are about supporting the government, I apologize to Mr. Batic. No, these laws are about supporting economic operators who can only get this country out of a crisis in these difficult times. Those who were economic operators and my conversators made comments that I tried to sum up very briefly in the opening address. And as a representative of the government, what can I say about the questions that have been asked? Of course, I can only speak in the language of fact, because it's the only way that gives completely exact answers. What are the effects on the Fund's credits for development and why we are increasing regional differences. The regional differences in Serbia are the fruit of a very long time behind us. As I listen today to former Deputy Prime Ministers and former ministers, who wonder why our regional differences are this big, I can say something that happened last year and that is only a drop in the sea to solve the problems of huge regional differences in Serbia, which cannot be solved not for a year, not during the term of office of a government, but in a systematic, hard work, precisely by working with the economy and lending of small and medium-sized enterprises to run something in a positive direction and to ease trends. Last year, the Development Fund approved 972 loans or 14.882.500,000 if we look at Article 6. Of which, 2.5 billion dinars are approved from the Republic of Serbia's budget for economic operators whose registration is related to undeveloped areas. Undeveloped areas are those identified by the Bureau of Statistics, the Republic Development Institute, as areas where income per capita is below 50% compared to average in the Republic of Serbia. It's a compensated criterion that I wouldn't talk about today, but that will quite accurately define a new law on regional development. Two and a half billion dinars in 58 municipalities have placed 750 loans to legal entities and entrepreneurs, and it is predicted that in the next three years about 10,000 people in these areas get a new job or keep an old job. Also, all these loans, which were processed, in addition to the company's credit rating, through the Development Fund programme in the previous period, and the possibility of returning these loans, had as the first criterion the retention of existing jobs and the creation of new ones. What can I say to the comments that this fund will be owned by one man in the next period? It was never owned by a single man, not a single government, because the exact same management system with the board of directors, which was always chaired by a minister whose jurisdiction was economic. The newspaper in this law is that the National Assembly is the supervisory authority. I would ask you to read that the Supervisory Board does not exist in this bill, relating to the Development Fund, that the reports are delivered to the Government, and beyond that the Government is delivering to the National Assembly. As far as the chamber law is concerned, it's clear that I don't want to talk at any time about proposals for models of organisation in other countries, but I'd like to say a few facts. Serbia's Chamber of Commerce in 2008 made revenues of a billion 105 million dinars, out of its members' fees to business entities, 732 million were charged, and other services provided by economic operators, which were realised by the Chamber of Commerce, were charged to 323 million dinars. I listened carefully to all those who were talking about the voluntary and compulsory way of organizing. We cannot organize business entities by telling them: you are obliged to pay membership fees, but you are obliged to pay services. Or let them decide for themselves. I listened carefully to Mr Nikolic's analysis of how to organise a chamber in France. Yes, it is mandatory to organise businesses in France and are the revenues of fourm euros, but as he himself said, 900,000 euros is intended for education, which is free of charge. Services that chambers of commerce have in Serbia are paid, with mandatory membership fees. That was the basic motive for proposing a new way of organizing. On the other hand, we're discussing that commercial chambers will go bankrupt. They won't go into bankruptcy if the users of their services are satisfied. Why would they go bankrupt? It's not like, at the moment we leave membership to the will of the businessmen, they're all going to escape from the chambers of commerce. That would mean they're absolutely dissatisfied with their work. It is not our goal to destroy the chambers of commerce, the goal is to make the chambers of commerce work more efficiently and cheaply, towards the interests of their users, and thus their users have the right to enter freely and come out freely if they are not satisfied. Finally, I would like to say that these three draft laws are well related to the implementation of the Government's programme in these times, despite the fact that commercial chambers do not represent organisations that account for the Government. If we look at the Chamber Act, we see in Articles 5 and 7 that they are established to give economic operators these necessary contacts of entities, governments and competent ministries. At this point, when there are three very large programmes concerning almost every economic operator in the country, it is absolutely logical and the role of the chambers in their implementation. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-09-0.u17283	National MP Dragan Shormaz wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-09-0.u17284	Madam Chairman, I am reporting under Article 27, which refers to those who are chairing; then, to Article 61 relating to the Committee on the Protection of the Environment, as well as to Article 77, which regulates the meeting of the Committee, with a request, although there should be a request, due to the urgency of the case. These days we've been talking about ecology, about the Committee meeting being scheduled as soon as possible, whether the chairman, president of the Assembly, I know he's not here, I don't see the president of the Committee on Environmental Protection. Namely, in the Atar of the village of Radanac, in a large canal poured into Morava, so that water goes also to the Danube, killing is fish. In that channel, only "Ju-es style" plays or ironworks, which is what I was talking about, my own waste water. It's been avoided here to mention "Ju-es style" for days, when there was an environmental debate. We talked about our industrial facilities, in our possessions, not where American capital is. I claimed they were bigger contaminants than the contaminants of the company located in Pancheva. They're supposed to invest $50 million and nothing's going on about it. I think the urgency of the Committee on the Protection of the Environment is necessary.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-09-0.u17285	There's no breach of the Rules of Procedure. I can refer you to business provisions on how to convene committee sessions and working bodies. The Rules of Procedure may only be injured if you have exhausted the previous opportunities given to you by the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I understand that you're interested in the subject, but I'm asking you not to abuse the right to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure. People's MP, it's not about whether or not you've spent a minute or two on abuse, it's about that there are no negotiations that abuses can't be, and then it's time for the abuse to take place, completely irrelevant. I agree with you that the subject is important, and it is my duty to give an explanation why there are no injuries to the Rules of Procedure. Are any of the other presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups, who have not used their rights, reporting for a word? No, I don't. I would like to inform you that, pursuant to Article 93(4), they are Article 4 The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, until the opening of a joint principled search, the application for a word, in writing, and with the order of MPs, submitted parliamentary groups: the Manjina Group, the LDP MP Group, the SPS-JS Group, the DSS Group of MPs, the G17 Plus Group of MPs, the SRS Parliamentary Group, the ZES Group and the Parliamentary Group Forward, Serbia. Under the obligations and rules of our Rules of Procedure, and by order of the MPs, according to the application for a word in a joint principled search on the drafts of the law set out in paragraphs 19, 20 and 21 of the agenda, the first registered speaker is MP Riza Halimi, followed by Srdjan Spasojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-09-0.u17286	Madam Chairman, Mrs Kalanovic, ladies and gentlemen, I will refer to the first law on the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia. At first, I would notice that a safe solution is to unify the activities of the Development Fund and the Guarantee Fund. It should probably affect the increase in rationality and coordination. I doubt that this bill too will improve the situation in the development of undeveloped people. Namely, I am following this situation and I can confirm to you the lagging of the undeveloped precisely in the period of operation of the Development Fund since 1992, and as it matches the time when an international embargo was introduced, that we have had a drastic lagging of undeveloped compared to the earlier period when we had, if I remember correctly, the Fund for the Development of Undeveloped. We had activities in the early 1980s when the decisions of the then governments sent companies from developed communities to open capacities and plants in the most underdeveloped municipalities. Of course, they used the funds of the fund at the time, but with a view to opening up a certain capacity in these most underdeveloped municipalities, which should have increased the number of employees and affected the development of undeveloped areas. I think it was this positive practice, and then there was one ground to cut that gap. In Presevo, there was about 20-25% compared to the average state average, the average republic, and I mean that main parameter per capita. From that period until now Presevo is seven times less developed than the average, which is 14.8% of the income per capita, and similar to the situation with Medvedje, Trgovište, with Bosilegrad, with a number of undeveloped municipalities, this lagging is pronounced. This suggests that this orientation that we had in the previous period from 1992 to now did not yield results, neither in the period when privatisation began, when the Fund focused on supporting entrepreneurs, the private sector, compared to the earlier period when priorities had social business organisations and companies, but in general, I do not think that we have been able to reduce the gap between developed and undeveloped. I do not see any solutions now that will improve this situation, especially when Article 2(1) says, these are the basic principles or the first principle on which the Fund's work should be based, 1) encouraging even regional development, and then it is said: ''including the development of underdeveloped areas. '"I think what is most dramatic and fundamental is exactly what is the most underdeveloped and what is lagging behind. Of course, that general subject of difference in original development is a familiar topic. It takes a long time to improve the situation on this plan. But it is irresponsible if we continue in the same way to treat the most underdeveloped areas in which literally nothing remains that these people will be dealing with downstairs. Absolutely, they're losing all the resources to survive. Let's take Preshevo. The companies so far, as they were, only Simpo remained, this little power plant of 130 workers still works; Jumko is absolutely negligible, is not known at all, because the worker is long gone; the same is with Euroflex, the former Chikom, the Vranja Welder, the two plants that the then Undeveloped Fund has now benefited from these facilities, because it is a customs terminal for them, but employees have long forgotten that they used to be employed. On the other hand, this privatisation that I mentioned earlier is now coming to us by suspicious companies, manipulative enterprises and instead of earlier serious treatment that has been trying to help the undeveloped from the developed, now from Belgrade, Nis, Vranja come to manipulants and use what once was acquired. Imagine what prices, at ten times lower prices, give them the capacity to deprive themselves. If we add that in Presevo, national income fell to 200 euros per capita, with about 300 euros per capita in 2006 and in 2007 we had no credit from the Development Fund. Neither the entrepreneur nor the legal person was able to obtain any credit from the Development Fund. Where's the perspective?- I'm sorry. Privatisation under suspicious circumstances affects the collapse of what we once had. The resources we have at Corridor 10 are in vain, and imagine, please, next to the existing gas station, the Ministry last year gives a building permit and all necessary conditions to open a new gas station two kilometers from the existing one. I've talked about "Interspid" many times. Land is bought for 20 euros and is sold to the Intermole for 200 euros. So, what good does that do us?- Oh, my God. Only the middleman who sold the land. He profiled the one that has good ties in the ministry because he awarded that transaction from 20 euros to 200 euros and, of course, what remains there, a dozen, 15 employees. Now, how in my opinion, the government will need some amendments to propose and strengthen the Development Fund and help everything. But what about the underdeveloped who's far behind?- I'm sorry. We have to give an answer here.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-09-0.u17287	The People's Parliament time at your disposal has been used. The People's Messenger Srdjan Spasojevic has the word, and then the People's Messenger Kenan Hajdarevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-09-0.u17288	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected ministers, citizens of Serbia, we have before us laws on the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Chambers of Commerce. As you can see, there is no agreement in the ruling coalition. The cracks are noticeable when these laws are at stake. Of course, it is particularly annoying that one of these two laws will not apply for four years. This is not unusual in Serbia, because we know that many other laws that have been passed as the Law on the Territories of Courts will be postponed, and as I have repeatedly said from the Assembly's pay phone. The government and the courts and all institutions are not ready for any legal solutions that enter into force, then laws will be passed to practically extend and their entry into force will be suspended. Of course, it is immediately noticeable that the Management Board will be taken by the Minister. Once it was acting as Prime Minister, it's totally unacceptable why it's going after a solution like this now. Why are ministers given this kind of information once? It'll show soon enough that it's not right. In this proposal for a Law on the Development Fund, first of all, it is irritable in Article 4 that it is not specified what will happen with the remaining 49% of actions that can be issued as priority. Under the priority actions, we mean those actions, which in the translation means they are 'voting-right' actions, and in this way, if the article adds exactly what the 49% is, it would be possible for minority shareholders to influence the Fund's policy in any way. Of course, practice has shown that such a possibility can happen. New Serbia has submitted an amendment in that direction. I think it would be acceptable for the government to accept the New Serbia amendment. What is particularly important in this draft law on the Development Fund is why the Guarantee Fund is abolished. It is unacceptable that future commitments under already issued guarantees from the Guarantee Fund fall to the burden of resources from the Development Fund, as they can be challenged by the operations of the Development Fund itself. We have submitted an amendment to this Article 24, and we think that this amendment will be accepted, because it is in the interests of the state and then the citizens of Serbia themselves, as well as the users of the Development Fund themselves. When we talk about the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Chambers of Commerce, I will point out that the Law on Chambers of Commerce of 2001 falls within the order of system laws. There was a obligation to conduct a public debate on the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Chambers, to declare the law to the economic operators, those to which the Law applies. It's not done. The bill was made by "experts", from the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, and it is likely that most of them who do not have a day of working experience in the economy, because how else do you explain the proposal for the collapse and abolition of the only representative institution of economic operators? The bill was not fully in line with the Ministry of Trade and Services, which was the obligation of the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development. The bill undermines the unity of the chamber system established by the 2001 Law, destroys the strategic model of the single system and the obligations of membership now applied in the most developed EU countries: Austria, Germany, France, Italy, Greece and others. Our country is in transition, so it is very important that the chamber system in Serbia is in line with the legal solutions of European countries. So it is very important that the chamber system in Serbia is in line with the legal solutions of the European chamber systems, the most significant economic parameters of Germany, Italy, Austria, France, Greece and Spain, which abolishes the bill. The proposal does not respect the fact that in the countries of transition, Slovenia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Macedonia, the model that this bill contains and that, after the inconclusive consequences of the economy, has joined the return to the European model. Should we pay the price to the experts of the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development? The bill would degrade the single chamber system, eliminate the institutional legitimacy of chambers of commerce to represent and represent the interests of all economic operators, regardless of the legal form of their organisation, the activity they are dealing with, the size, its own, some, shape and headquarters. The bill opens up the possibility of overcoming the particular interests of a small number of businessmen. So, what I'm saying is that the bill is in the interest of 50 major companies that would use the chamber system model to only point out their interests as an interest in the entire economy, and the other over 100,000 companies and entrepreneurs would not have the opportunity to channel and achieve their interests as they have so far, because the bill abolishes the chamber as a representative of the economy and partner of the government. The bill also violates relations with foreign chambers, including membership in the International Chamber of Commerce, the Union of European Chambers, etc. Thus, the weak ruling coalition also looks back at a large number of remarks by the Regional Chamber of Commerce Valjevo and some other regional chambers of commerce. A large number of objections and the Serbian Chamber of Commerce. Gentlemen of the ruling coalition, when you pass laws, you have to ask a little bit of those who will enforce that law, which will use it, practically on the ground to enforce that law. It is unacceptable that, as I have already said when we talked about courts, there have been more interventions and the Society of Judges and Bars and many other institutions dealing with problems, you simply close your eyes and you will not say that you do not want to communicate with those who are to enforce this law. Fortunately, this law will not enter into force for four years. I have to say that's lucky, because surely in some period ahead of us, all the perils of a law like this will be seen and will practically have time to bring new legal solutions. I will take advantage of the opportunity, at the end of my discussion, to address the presence of Minister Mrs Kalanovic here. Madam Minister, I come from the Kings from a city where the economy has completely stopped. It doesn't work "Magnochrom", "The Car Factory" is also exhaling. Otherwise, it's a privatization that's been badly done. Many private entrepreneurs don't work at all. Small and medium-sized enterprises are in collapse, and there will be inconceivable consequences. I'm telling you all of this, Madam Minister, with a desire to show you what the criteria are or, in a folk's way, the archeology by which you assigned the King only 67 million dinars from the National Investment Plan. I remind you that criteria must be for you to be that the King's City is extremely burdened, as I said, by bad economy, the companies are on the air, and the burden is great, and that in the King 30,000-40,000 people came as displaced and avoided faces. Of course, the King opened his soul as always did and received those people who were in pain, but the presence of this large number of people on the side who are currently living and working in the King is that the infrastructure in the King is satisfied. It's an extremely small amount of 67 million. If you tell me now that it's because it's an economic crisis, we're aware of it, but there are cities, Madam ministers, who have received seven to eight times more money, and there's no real need for that. I do not dispute that in other cities some money will be invested, Serbian citizens need infrastructure to develop, but I will tell you that the Royal City, which has no indoor pool, which has no hall of sports, school, the elementary school "Dimitry Tucovic" in the Kingdom does not have a physical hall, perhaps just a few more in Serbia. It's a shame and a shame. Children are trained in disconditions, at night in clubs in very bad halls that are completely ruined. - The king is a Serbian Bologna with two basketball leaguers, a volleyball club. So waterpolitans and handball players go into multiple ranks, but I can't because there's no infrastructure to participate in leagues. I'll use some of the time we usually have. So, Madam Minister, with this kind of behavior and lack of recognition of the problem, it remains unclear to me who you punish in the King. Do you punish the citizens of kings who are extremely troubled? Do you punish those men who were in power in the King until 20 days ago, or do you now punish those of you who are in power? You've tried your best to change power, and what's the lesson now? There was a message that honey and milk would flow into the King when this set came in, that they would be extremely invested. If we put all this together with the free campaigns that you were talking about in the election campaign, if this is how this is done, the King will have a complete collapse. I must tell you that in the previous four years, the government of Dr Vojislav Kostunica and the Minister of Infrastructure and Capital Investment, Velimir Ilic, recognized this problem that I am talking about the King. So much has been done that the citizens of the Kings have at one point taken a breath. Two bridges and several roads were made in the territory of the municipality of Kraljevo. There's little time, and it might take me this long to count what's been done. At a rate like this, Madam Minister, it takes seventy years to get what we invested in the last four years. In this way, I would like to appeal to the People's Messengers of the King to come forward. There can be no party discipline beyond the city that has delegated them to sit here. The king must have better resources, because it is a city that is in great trouble. Once again, New Serbia cannot support these laws. The laws aren't good. We will try to point out, through the amendments that we have submitted, the mistakes that the legal proposals have and we hope that the government will accept the amendments. Nevertheless, we cannot support this law, because we want laws that are good for the citizens of Serbia, and these bills are not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-09-0.u17289	On behalf of the president of the National Assembly, Ms. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, I would ask the presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups to now, at 13,15 am, attend a meeting in the cabinet of the president of the assembly. I really ask you to attend the meeting and the agreement within a few minutes, thank you. The word has been given by MP Kenan Hajdarevic, followed by MP Milos Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-09-0.u17290	The President-in-Office, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today's debate on the draft law on the Republic of Serbia Development Fund might make more sense if we also discussed the proposal for a state aid law, i.e. about a law that the Serbian government has not yet referred to in the assembly procedure. The law would finally establish a state aid control system in Serbia and regulate general conditions and procedures for obtaining state aid, and hence aid from the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia. The law would also prevent individuals, individual ministers, state secretaries or officials from using state funds in pre-election campaigns -- offering asphalt, bandits, and funds from the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia. However, if we take and read the reasons for the adoption of the law on the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia, it seems that the proposal was a necessary global economic crisis to see that it can also rationalise the business of this Fund and the Guarantee Fund, because how else can we interpret the last sentence in paragraph 2, the reasons for the law, which says - that this is one of the measures of rationalisation of business in terms of the global economic crisis. Serbia's problems today are largely the result of the weakness of our economy, the lack of institution, and the smaller part is due to the global economic crisis. The crisis may also be the best time to start essential reforms, and we as LDP require the Government of the Republic of Serbia to get such laws, laws in which at least minimum departmentation and economy and social system will be in general. The bill of these laws that we're considering today doesn't make it possible. For LDP, some of the following members of the Bill on the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia are unacceptable. This is a predominant member of the 15th in which it is defined - who are members of the Governing Board of the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia, where the ministries, i.e. ministers, as well as who is chairman of the Management Board, are precisely listed. Minister for Economy and Regional Development, for a simple reason, because Article 22 says, "The Fund's supervision of labour law is carried out by the ministry responsible for economic and regional development affairs. ''I really want to see these services from the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development which will be able in an objective way to oversee the legality of the work of the Fund whose chairman of the board of directors is his minister. Article 8 also states: "The Fund is obliged to maintain a capital base of at least 5m euros for a stable and secure business." As far as we know, the official currency in the Republic of Serbia is still a dinar, so why doesn't it say here "in dinar equivalent"? Article 21 of this proposal also provides for internal audit, but it is not clear how this internal audit will be carried out and who will carry out that internal audit. At the end of the article. 9 and 15. The bill, among other things, states that, in Article 9(2), the recapitalisation dynamics of the Fund determines the government on a proposal from the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, and that the chairman of the board of directors is in charge of economy and regional development. What happens if there is no Minister in charge of economics and regional development in a future government, but there are two or more ministries in charge of economics and regional development? Will the Serbian Parliament then have to amend the law on the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia? Couldn't this have been defined in a different way? Also, when we talk about the reasons for the adoption of this law by emergency procedure, it is said that one of the reasons is that the three additional programmes this fund needs to implement, and in order to eliminate the consequences of the global economic crisis. I would ask the minister to explain to us – will this law, or the Fund's reform, merger with the Guarantee Fund, allow the investment loans provided for by the Government of the Republic of Serbia to finally be realised? We read in the press that very few of these investment loans were realised and approved. Is it because of the poor work of the Fund and the Guarantee Fund or maybe because of a lack of funds in banks? Also, when we talk about the programmes for exiting the economic crisis, i.e. these three programmes, I ask the government and the competent ministries, about the law on the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia: – What about businesses that have bad balances and they cannot compete for these loans provided by the Government of the Republic of Serbia? Only last year have some of these companies achieved 38m euros in turnover. Even representatives of some companies addressed the government of the Republic of Serbia and Minister Dinkic, as well as Prime Minister Cvetkovic -- "First Five-year-old" IMT, IMR, FAP-Priboj, "14 October", "Icarus". How will they be able to use these funds? – What do the government and the competent ministry think they are doing with those companies that will no longer be able to use funds from the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia, and are still social enterprises, until the final privatisation or resolution of their status? Couldn't we have had some transitional period? When, Madam Minister, you spoke of major regional differences earlier, I will tell you a few details about the large regional differences, which have occurred in the last five, six years, and we can even say the last ten years. Among other things, this is the consequence, not only of periods and sanctions and wars that we have been exposed to, but of somewhat the economic policy that has been being conducted in the Republic of Serbia over the past few years. In the area of six Sanjak municipalities: Priboj, Prijepolje, Nova Varoš, Sjenica, Tutin, Novi Pazar unemployment per 1,000 inhabitants is higher by 70% compared to the Republic average. The participation of the population with high expertise and higher professional training is 6% and is double the national average of 11%. The participation of the population with primary school is greater than the republican by 17%. The roads with a modern background are 15%, and the republican roads are 46%. The relationship between developed and undeveloped regions and areas in the Republic of Serbia, in the past few years, has been one-to-seven relationship and it is growing. These are all reasons why we must do and why the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the competent ministries must take concrete steps to overcome these regional underdevelopments, not just to use it in election campaigns and when some laws need to be explained. When we talk about underdeveloped municipalities, Madam Minister, there is a paradox I was already talking about in the Serbian Parliament, and I want to point out to you too, it concerns the Priboj municipality. Is it possible that the municipality of Priboj in January is the last municipality on average of 10,800 dinars, and then in January we find out that the municipality of Priboj in less than a year and a half left, or changed the place of residence of more than 1,000 people, and that the government, or the competent ministry, decided that the municipality of Priboj did not develop an undeveloped municipality. The thousands and a few people who left the Priboj municipality in a year and a few days are the same as leaving the Republic of Serbia for the same period of time as 300,000 people. Priboj and Sandzak, in general, are only a paradigm of the situation in which most municipalities in the Republic of Serbia are located. You as a government must quickly start solving these problems, because ignoring these problems will lead citizens into an extremely difficult situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-09-0.u17291	With apologies for the loss made, I correct the mistake, I give the word to the MP Djordj Milicevic, one more apology to the MP Milos Radulovic, you get the word right after him. The oversight was in order.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-09-0.u17292	Dear Madam Chairman, Honored Madam Ministers, Honored Representatives of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, as has been said many times today, three legislative proposals are before us – Proposal for a Law on the Fund for Development, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Chambers of Commerce, as well as a bill on the termination of the validity of the Insurance Fund and the financing of external trade. In the discussion, I will focus my attention on one legislative proposal through several findings, suggestions, proposals and issues, or the draft law on amendments to the Law on Chambers of Commerce. First of all, a few words about what is actually foreseen by the amendments and additions of the Chamber of Commerce Act. The introduction of competitive associations, which would have been imagined to have a common interest in the importance of economics in the Republic of Serbia, as well as the possibility for economic operators to establish other chambers. The condition is that at any moment there must be 50 members. The establishment of a chamber register run by the Agency for Economic Registers is foreseen. These amendments also provide for increased responsibility for chambers in terms of monitoring, taking an anti-competitive position on the relevant market, while the possibility of submitting a request to the Commission for competition protection in the event of a distortion of competition is explicitly foreseen. What is also defined by this proposal is also the way the membership fee is charged, which certainly the chamber prescribes. The chamber determines and determines how the statutes will be published, and external trade arbitration in the Serbian Chamber of Commerce has also been established. Amendments to the Law have defined that the word "enterprise" is replaced by the words "economic societies", as it is said, to comply with the law governing companies. What is cited, among other things, as the reason for the adoption of the proposed changes and additions, is that the proposed solutions will have a positive effect on increasing the level of economic activity and will improve the conditions for healthy competition in the Serbian market, especially in relation to the countries in the environment. This goal is not in itself controversial, on the contrary, but what we consider not to be good is a fact, and that was heard at the beginning of today's debate, that in the public past days a number of negative comments could be heard on the proposal of these amendments and the addition of the Law on Chambers of Commerce and therefore on the basis of the proposed amendments and additions. Of course we don't think this is good. Could this situation have been avoided? Of course, one of the most rational, one of the most logical and realistic solutions was one constructive public debate. The dialogue between legislators and businessmen, chambers of commerce, in our opinion was necessary in this situation. In the situation of the economic crisis and its effects, an important role should be played by the economy and economic activity. The Chamber of Commerce should play a representative role, being a significant factor in creating an economic environment, creating a positive atmosphere for economic activities. It would be good to hear the voice of the economy, to look at and respect individual suggestions and suggestions. What I'm saying is that the state has also entrusted the chamber with a large number of public powers. It's about 58 different documents and confirmations and they have the character of public documents. The draft law provides for the establishment of other chambers with at least 50 members, as well as the abolition of the obligation to pay the membership fee. The question arises whether the decommissioning of the single chamber system would eliminate this legitimacy, i.e. the institutional legitimacy that chambers have, represent and represent the interests of economic operators. Could this in one particular way lead to a weakening of the power of the Serbian economy? Who will be the representative and be asked the question of the property of the chamber. It's not the goal, I hope, to get into a situation of imposing the interests of the strong and the few over the weaker and many. The billmaker has given two reasons to abolish the company's obligation to pay membership fees. The first is the trend in the EU, the second is the cost of, as I understand it, the business of the company. As far as the company's business costs are concerned, it's perfectly clear if the businessman, I agree with that, doesn't feel the use of the chamber, is not even interested in paying the membership fee. We want to believe that during this debate, we will get further reasons for the reasons that are stated. On the drive-by, I'd like to say that the fact that the chamber, as it is now organized, has to suffer certain changes. For me, it may personally represent a dilemma as to whether these changes that are essential in nature can be achieved by amending the existing law or whether it would be better if we went to full draft of the new law, bearing in mind the fact that the rules for law enforcement will be passed on 31.12.2010 and the law enters into force on 1 January 2013. Several attributes were mentioned here, good and loyal coalition partners. I would change that and say a correct and reliable coalition partner. It has absolutely nothing to do with today's debate. Our goal, the aim of the SPS Group – JS, is that through the amendments we have submitted, we get one quality law when it comes to chambers of commerce. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-09-0.u17293	The word is made by MP Milos Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-09-0.u17294	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of Serbia, Madam Minister, today we have three bills on the agenda, one of which is the draft law on the Development Fund. In essence, this proposal for a Law on the Development Fund brings together the functions of the Fund for Development and the Guarantee Fund, whose activity is based on the following principles – the promotion of balanced regional development, including the development of underdeveloped areas, the promotion of legal persons and entrepreneurs in the Republic of Serbia, the promotion of competitiveness and liquidity of Serbia's economy and the promotion of employment. Basically, the Development Fund has, above all, these incentive measures and to mitigate the differences between individual regions in Serbia. I would remind Mrs Kalanovic that in 2002 I resigned as head of the Rasin County, precisely for the reason of the non-selective loan from the Development Fund, because unlike the strategic team's views formed at the level of the Rasin district, loans were divided according to party membership and relation. What we are referring to as an objection to this law is, inter alia, that the bodies of the Fund, the board of directors and directors are elected for the composition of the Management Board. The Management Board, as you know, consists of the chairman of the board of directors, Economy and Regional Development Minister, Infrastructure Minister, Tourism and Trade Minister, Labour and Social Affairs Minister, Finance Minister. What is our concern, the DSS Parliamentary Group, is that the Management Board should be elected on a proposal from the Government, as this separates the decision-making and supervision function of the Fund, since the draft law controls the legality of the Fund's work is carried out by the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development. We think it is illogical to choose the board of directors in this way, in particular that the dominant role of the Minister for Economics and Regional Development, and the credibility of the Minister for Economics and Regional Development for the management of this significant fund, in my understanding, was questioned after a visit to RTS, a few days ago. At that time, unlike his party counterpart, Mr Jelasic and the editor of the magazine "Economist", Mr. Culibrk, who considered Serbia to be in a recession and that Serbia is already in recession, Mr. Dinkic said that practically Serbia is in an extremely favourable position, a much better position than the other country in the environment. The Democratic Party of Serbia has made remarks on both the rebalancing and the adoption of the budget, the very concept and the strategy with which the government came out, for the reason that we thought the budget was intended to be wasteful, not on the bad side of the unilateral application of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, because it was directly damaged to the Serbian country for customs revenue of 300m euros. However, it is not surprising, for the government itself has been conceived and drawn up under the influence of the import lobby, some foreign embassies and the ruling majority at the head of the DS which it has shown, at least for now, that it is unable to solve problems and as a government that has no strategy in running the state at such a difficult time. The democratic party of Serbia pointed to the problem of the dinar course, the reduction of foreign reserves, we asked the question – who is buying out foreign exchanges, the liquidity of the economy, of high interest. Interests, as you know, are mostly in the environment, moving over 30%, unlike interest in countries near us. About 8.70% are in Croatia. The interest in Romania is 8.77%. All of this is one problem for normal functioning and business of businesses in Serbia, which produces internal liquidity, as businesses then resort to the layoff of a number of workers or the problem of high money prices in the prices of their products. It is interesting that out of 112,000 businesses at the moment, 58,000 businesses are in the blockade, that over 2,000 entities are bankrupt, that more than 20,000 workers are out of work for the first two months. As part of the crisis overcoming, as part of the IMF arrangement, one measure is to reduce transfers to funds intended for local self-government. That's about 40 billion, 15 billion less funds for local self-government. I would like to set an example of my town, Kruševec, where these transfer funds are planned by a 570 million budget project, this decreases by the entire 220 million, so that local self-government in Kruševec, as well as local self-government in other cities, will have major problems in normal functioning, and we know that many local self-governments have basic income from these transfer funds. In the end, it will be interesting for the budget rebalance to see where the government found the savings and to hear the final explanation for the unreal projection of the 2009 budget, which is the most difficult case for citizens, i.e. taxpayers. We look forward to an impatient debate on budget rebalancing so that we can cross-reference the arguments and indicate that our views were correct. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-09-0.u17295	The word has a folk MP, Jorvanka Tabakovic, followed by MP Dragan Vujadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-09-0.u17296	Thank you. If you please, since you are a very big fan of language, my last name is accentuated as Tábaković. It is interesting that the government has brought together a debate on three points of the agenda, a draft law on the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia, a bill on amendments and amendments to the Law on Chambers and a draft law on the termination of the law on the insurance and financing of foreign trade, which meant that there was enough time for one debate for such three important points of the agenda. First of all, I think these three agenda points deserve at least as much attention and time as yesterday's debate on political parties. If citizens or colleagues are wondering why these two laws, the Development Fund law and the Chamber of Commerce Act, were fighting each other for primate, and both laws treat money that has become a symbol of success, the basic motive for public affairs and the only real source of power in this country, then I will say that the chambers of commerce have caused more attention, because the funds that are collected by compulsory membership, not companies that are members of a regional, city or other chamber, but employees of that company who are not asked for it and who, I am confident, do not receive adequate service for that money, but because for that money rarely to be accounted for in the right way. Just as you said, over a billion dinars have been collected, and whether the chamber assembly is enough organ and public enough to get an account of such funds, the question is. I think there's something more serious in the Fund, however, about the treatment of responsibility for money collected from the budget, and sharing it with others, but I'm going to try to draw the public's attention to this third law, which speaks most of the state and its way of collecting and spending money and how to run public affairs. The draft law on the termination of the Act on the Foreign Trade Insurance and Financing Fund is the most important law of these three. It speaks of the establishment in 2002 of the Foreign Trade Insurance Fund Act and its jurisdiction, I will be collokual, incentivising exports. We all know what our deficit is and how important it is to encourage exports due to foreign exchange inflows, because of our pay-balance position and its participation in the gross social product. If in 2005, it was founded with almost the same competences of the Agency for the Promotion of Exports and Development of Economic Relations, meaning double jurisdiction, which you have confirmed, though, you said there is something broader, I am now asking a question of business, conditions, restrictions, why in March 2009 are we abolishing the Fund whose jobs are being done simultaneously by the Export Insurance Agency? Why does it take us three years, because this law came into practice in December 2008? And if it only existed somewhere on paper, what's called the Fund and whose jobs were doubled, so if we were just formally removing that fund, I would understand. It's absolutely not about that, because in one of the views of this law, it says that the funds that exist on the account of this fund will be transferred to the Agency. What I'm saying is that inaccessible is the wasteful conduct of a state that doubles organs, institutions and changes their names, while exercising the same competences. There's no excuse for being so-called in 2006. "Smeka", "Smeca", as anyone reads, as an institution inherited an institution of that kind that existed at the federal level, because, according to all the obligations undertaken by the Republic of Serbia, it was the institution of the Republic of Serbia and in its direct jurisdiction. It is very interesting and I ask for your attention (and do not let the warning given in time by certain Julians in Italy, saying that the gas produced in the womb of the country, and it has established it with its special instruments, cause a catastrophic earthquake whose number of victims are witnesses, please) that the data that you are making, and I repeat, attach importance and behave accordingly, and that is – is it possible that you, when establishing each government or when submitting such laws to the abolition of some institutions, are not obliged not to make a list of property, a list of obligations, a list of resources which one body, which is created by means of citizens, and to provide it for insight. How many people are employed, and how many will you take somewhere? What jobs have been done and with what effect? How much funds have been used and for what purposes? Or, indeed, I will officially propose that, in the light of these laws, the necessary means to enforce the law, the reasons for an emergency procedure, etc., a damage which, for example, was done by this law to Serbian citizens, which existed from 2005 to 2009, a parallel institution with almost the same powers. Indeed, the argument that this law must be passed in an urgent manner and in order to prevent adverse consequences, etc., because of the parallel existence of two institutions. The Development Fund Act, which I will also talk about, treats the same matter and has the same principled approach. Please, coming from the opposition, being an MP for the SNS, the Forwards MP, Serbia, does not diminish the arguments I make and help you, not because we want you to stay in power, but because we are telling you that the way public affairs and spending public money must finally be put into order. If I were to ask myself in any way and that the strength of the twenty-one Serbian Progressive Party MP is even bigger, this bill could not have been put into practice. Attributes, descriptive adjectives, text explanations, it's for the written compositions of students in elementary school, perhaps in high school. For such a serious home and for a serious moment like this, you have to file an account that we can give the court and the citizens about how money is spent in this country. Will the handover of objects, unfinished, unfinished things be done anyway? In the ordinary, not to be persuasive, in the simplest business in the handover, there is a takeover and surrender of duty, with an undertone of the line where who is who and what who is who is who is who, and what is the one who inherits it should do. There is no such thing in this, as usual in laws like this. No matter what we're talking about all the time, the departments are doing the work they're supposed to do, they're transferring these jobs to agencies that are on budget 110, but you're shutting them down so you don't file our final accounts and how much expenses they've made us. Simply, you are divorcing your responsibility, as political figures at the head of these ministries, which deal with the development of party infrastructure to the greatest extent possible, by making agencies for small, medium, large enterprises, for this and that, and the state affairs dealing with agencies that when we ask: why is the price of electricity such, the Energy Minister will say – this is done by the Energy Agency. They will say: ye cannot interfere, for we are independent. I cannot virtually conduct state affairs, such as finance, without regulatory and regulatory bodies and without conservative access to finance and money, we have come to a major financial crisis. Without a regulation called Parliament and citizens' control, and without being able to question the responsibility of those who do state affairs, we really cannot be found in bankruptcy, because for the state bankruptcy is not envisaged, but what dangers we face, I will not speak, and you will imagine them. The next law I'm going to talk about is a law on the Development Fund. Indeed, this law allows everyone who deals with these affairs to talk about development, as a philosophical category. They allow them to talk about regional development and differences, but also the most important one, which I'm already principled a story about, which is a wasteful state. I will say that the flossula is "development" and remind citizens, for the first time used in modern society in this, this context, on January 20, 1949, when Truman in his approach speech called the southern hemisphere an underdeveloped area. Since then, the story of the development and self-pity of the South and the arrogant interventionism of the North begins. And we haven't made it out of that developmental flossula to this day. And how hollow the story of development itself tells the data that e.g. In 1960, the countries of the North were 20 times developed by the countries of the South. In 1980, the difference was 46 times greater in favour of developed countries. This is the information given in the Dictionary of Development, collected works by the author of Wolfgang Zaks. It's not about any arbitrary technology and construction, as some people tend to say. And in this development, developed societies, developed regions are constantly moving towards that self-degradation, where the one who has progressed more and more and the one who doesn't lag behind more and more. The evidence is that Belgrade, Novi Sad and Nis are trying to be one of the three regional centres in this country. My colleagues spoke of differences, results and shortcomings in regional development, and I don't want to talk much about these figures. I will talk about what I think is the basic issue of the Development Fund and the Regional Development Fund, as something that is part of this job, which is the way the Fund for Development is distributed is not motivated by economic logic or economic legality, but is a product of political action or, I can say, more readily, is more relevant to reality, the product of political agreement. In this and such mode of operation and use of the Development Fund, I ask the question asked by the party to whom I belong for a long time: – Ah, why the Development Fund, why not the bank for development? - And why the KFV Development Bank to place funds here, if we can. - And why does the Development Fund not owe responsibility to its founders in the way the classical banks do it? I often told the people of Vojvodina that the Vojvodina Development Fund, for example, behaves like a bank, but has no responsibility as a bank. They are not registered in such a way as to have that size of capital, although it is not a problem for them, because the state is the core funder of the Fund, but because they do not have the founders' assembly and because they do not have the responsibility to whom they give the funds under more favourable interest, you leave one such institution to last, but, unfortunately, you are introducing even non-constitutional provisions in its establishment. Mrs. Kalanovic, you are a representative of the government. I ask you - where do you get the right to prevent you from accessing public enterprises and social enterprises in front of the Development Fund, you say, modernly applying, or competing for funds. What is this equality – property in the state, which declares it by the Constitution, and what is that awareness of the moment we are in, where liberal market economies support undeniable private property? You have introduced another newspaper in the Development Fund law, which is that its founders, at the moment, are 51%, can be both domestic and foreign legal and physical persons. It's not bad, but that's why in time when you state banks, when I say you, I think of you as the personification of a party who was the pronoun of such a law, when all the banks were cut off because of their obligations to the Paris and London Club, and there was a ban on domestic legal persons to appear as buyers of their actions. Why is discrimination always at the expense of domestic businesses? Why is every law such that I have to, or not want to mention the title of the book read here with the interest of the "Doll at the end" MPs, whose author is Tomislav Nikolic, and because of the debate on the 2001 chambers? There are no coincidences that there is one provision in every law that makes it impossible for our citizens, our businesses, our money owners to enter these interesting properties. You have again given Mr Dinkic the exclusive right to do one luxuriant job. It's luxuriant, because you provide privileges, because you give someone cheaper, more favourable means, because you don't have a responsibility, and if you had a bank, you'd have it, so you can make it even more luxuriantly as a party or as an individual, but that's why you don't make an account to whoever needs it. You have here provided responsibility only for Mr Dinkic, as the regional development minister responsible. Although you have provided for a mandatory revision, I will talk about it in detail, foreign auditors, not for example domestics, who did not have a disputed audit, in no court procedure, do not put the Ministry of Finance for the Minister and Ministry anywhere which is required to have insight into what you are doing. This kind of feudalization is an observation that you can't dispute, not even the right that someone who belongs to him in the nature of his work can have insight into your papers. You too boast that the National Assembly will be the Supervisory Board. I'm asking you, which is why on the day of this bill, you're terminating the Board's membership, or you're shutting it down from further events, and all the other authorities remain to exist. And what could happen if the Supervisory Board stopped existing as a supervisory authority? What irreparable harm can he do, in order that even one member of the law, a great one, would be committed to it? That's a very interesting question. You don't mention the objectives of economic policy anywhere here as a motive for investment, as a motive for the recapitalisation of the Fund, but if the Fund doesn't place the funds by the end of the year according to its plan, you give it the right to place them in some of the actions, into securities of value. – Has it not yet reached our economic authorities' awareness of the need for money to be invested in industry, in defined industrial policy and production? Do you really think that trade in actions, inflatable actions, the one that brought America to this point, is going to help us get out of the crisis, and you're giving the member of the law the right to the Fund that he can get those unsolicited funds for the purposes for which he was granted, and it's called development, so that they can be placed in securities of value? Indeed, as an MP, I feel not inferior to such laws, but literally injured, because certain provisions offend the logic of the man who lives in this country and thinks well of her. You claim that 51 per cent is currently owned by the Republic of Serbia and that those who enter the property, meaning that domestic and foreign legal persons, will enable themselves to participate in proportionate investment in the stock society, i.e. the board of directors, when it is organised as such. You have not listed a sentence anywhere: "And to retain necessarily those 51 per cent of the ownership of the Republic of Serbia". You're saying that you shouldn't, probably to be precise, because we still don't have an opinion on the amendments we've submitted, but because when you're offering us a loan for 45 million Spanish goods here, every member says that the credit we're getting has to be used exclusively for buying Spanish goods or services. Simply, I think the whole law was made because of these two or three things, and in fact that the Guarantee Fund, for which there was no need, would be attached to the Development Fund, which is defined in Articles 23 and 25. Is this descriptive sentence "the number of workers required to be taken over" and how many and under what conditions will be made available are included in the story of reducing state bureaucracy or the savings that the government is working on? With one single sentence, I will say: this really seems funny, and we, who are seriously involved in this work, cannot even say that there is some trace of the things from Mr Dinkic's interview, which he gave on 23.8 last year, where he announced what we are discussing today, and that is his awareness of the seriousness of the moment and of the need to combine a pre-gglossed administration that is, in fact, reduced to staying in power at all costs. For these reasons, I promise you that the Serbian Progressive Party and the Forward Parliamentary Club, Serbia, will not only vote for these laws of yours, but will try to get citizens to know in other places the damage that has been done to them by these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-09-0.u17297	I'm setting a break by 15.05. At 15.05 we continue our work in the afternoon. The word will be first delivered by MP Dragan Vujadinovic, followed by MP Jovan Nesovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-09-0.u17298	We continue to work, honourable MPs, first I give the word to Jovan Nesovic, and let Dragan Vujadinovic be prepared, that is the order.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-09-0.u17299	Dear Presidents, Madam Ministers, colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, we have three laws in the area of the economy, on behalf of the G17 Group, plus I would like to say that the G17 Group will vote in favour of all the three laws that are on today's agenda. As regards the first law, which is the draft law on the Development Fund, it should be recalled that the Development Fund was founded 16 years ago, and its aim was to encourage economic activity in the state of Serbia, to encourage a more balanced regional development of the Serbian state, to try to help the competitiveness of the domestic economy, to help develop trade and service activities, to encourage employment and encourage the development of the capital market. What we all know, these last 16 years, the Development Fund's interest rates were about 5%, while the 2006 business banks and interest rates were 16%, the average interest rate was 11% in 2007, and 16% in 2008, and when this is seen, it can be said that the Fund was under favourable conditions for Serbia's economy providing funds, so that businesses could develop their businesses in a cheaper way. What's important so far is that so far, according to statistics, those who took loans from the Development Fund have returned that loan to 95% of the cases, which I think is also significant. When we look at everything, it seems to me that the Development Fund has done its mission in an appropriate way in the last 16 years, the way it operates, with less or more success. What now provides for a new law on the Development Fund is to build a more modern institution of the Development Fund, and on the other hand, how the Development Fund can affect the mitigation of the global economic crisis, which has an impact on our economy as well. The Development Fund should implement three programmes defined by the Government of the Republic of Serbia as measures to mitigate the impact of the global economic crisis, namely: 1) a co-financing programme with business banks, with the provision of a guarantee for liquid assets, 2) a loan subsidy programme for the maintenance of liquidity and financing of permanent crafts and 3) the subsidisation of consumer credits. On the other hand, this law provides for the merger of the two funds so far, the Fund for Development from the Guarantee Fund, since these two funds mainly carried out similar activities in the past period. In article 2, this law, the Fund's work has been defined. The promoter says the Fund should encourage balanced regional development, including underdeveloped areas, encourage the business of legal persons and entrepreneurs, encourage competitiveness and liquidity of businesses and encourage employment. Article 5 of this Law defines transactions to be carried out through the Development Fund, which are: loan approval, guaranteeing, purchase of securities of value and other tasks on behalf of and on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, in accordance with the law. Article 6 defines funds for the implementation of the operations of the Fund from the budget of the Republic of Serbia, income from funds and other sources in accordance with the law. One newspaper, which I think is important at this time and in this law, is a Article 4 that says the Fund can be organised in the future and as an action society, but that the actions of the Serbian state and the right to vote by the Serbian state in the Fund must have 51%. The fund will always remain in the majority ownership of the Serbian state, and those who can be shareholders can be domestic and foreign persons. The objectives of the Fund, under this law, are the reduction of external influences, which increasingly affect Serbia's economy, the rationalisation of operational costs by association of the Development Fund and the Guarantee Fund, the lending of small and medium-sized enterprises, independent trades, entrepreneurs, as well as the issuing of guarantees to provide part of the loans coming from business banks and the attempt to maintain employment levels, especially in these times of crisis. Such a bill will have positive effects on small and medium-sized enterprises, as small and medium-sized enterprises will continue to receive favourable loans as short-term and other loans through the Development Fund, will also be able to use long-term loans to support beginners and will be able to obtain guarantees to provide part of the financial resources they receive through business banks. It will also benefit from business banks, for the simple reason that it will lower operational costs when granting guarantees by joining the Development Fund and the Guarantee Fund. Unemployed persons in Serbia will also benefit from the application of this law, because microcredits used to start business can be obtained through the Development Fund, and this means hiring people. Finally, the Development Fund itself will benefit for a simple reason, because it will be able to approve a higher amount of credit than it has so far approved, will be able to issue guarantees, place free funds to buy first-class securities of value and issue and sell these securities of value. What is important, Article 10 of this Law on the Fund for Development, has been defined as bringing an annual work programme, to which the Government of the Republic of Serbia agrees. Articles 19, 20 and 21 have defined that the Fund has internal and external audits. As far as external audit is concerned, it must be by an auditor on the list of internationally recognised auditors. Article 22 defines who has control over the work of the Development Fund and does so by the competent ministry in charge of economic and regional development affairs. What is important is the government's annual report on the operation of the Fund, which is also submitted to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. As regards the second law, I must publicly admit that I have never received more letters from all regional chambers of commerce and the National Chamber of Commerce. When these letters are carefully read, you will see that these letters are exactly the same. These letters were written in one place, e - mailed or otherwise to regional chambers of commerce, and the regional chambers of commerce only sent these copies to the MPs. What does that tell us? This tells us that certain people who work in chambers want to keep their positions at all costs, because it seems to me that they have quite a lot in these times of crisis paid jobs and want them without any control, and it seems to me without much obligation to those who pay them at this point, which are employees of people in the economy of Serbia, to simply keep those positions without thinking much about their quality of work. If we want to transform most of the institutions in the next period, and we want to slowly move towards the EU, then indeed this institution should be transformed, and it seems to me that the amendments and additions of the Chamber of Commerce Act are the first step towards transforming this institution. Finally, let me not rephrase, but in the morning part of the session, a colleague from New Serbia, my friend Mr. Srdjan Spasojevic spoke of the dissatisfaction with how much funds the city from which I also came, the town of Kraljevo, received through the projects of the National Investment Plan. To be honest, I know that every local self-government, including the local self-government in the King, wants to get as much funding as possible, but when the data is presented behind the pay phone, then really the data must be accurate and then not only can you talk about clean budgets, but you should talk about the resources that a local self-government receives through the Government of the Republic of Serbia, through credit guaranteed by the Government of Serbia. If you look at the KFP guarantee issued by the Government of the Republic of Serbia for the KFP programme, I apologize, for water supply, you will see that the city of Kraljevo has completed its first phase and is going to the second phase for two and a half years, and that second phase is about five million euros. If you look at, too, what has been verified by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, a loan from the European Investment Bank, you will see for the restoration of the travel infrastructure that one million euros have been planned in the Kingdom and when you add it all together, then there is no logic to talk about 64 million dinars that go directly from budget funds, via the Ministry of National Investment Plan, it is already necessary to talk about much larger funds that are also going through the Ministry of the National Investment Plan. It seems to me that, although we want to reach certain political points, it is important to tell the real truth about what is going on and how the government is keeping an eye on, as well as individual ministries, according to certain local self-governments. Looking at all this stuff I've made and what my colleagues from G17 plus put out, I think these three laws are good laws. The G17 plus will support them in the voting day, and I ask other parliamentary groups to do the same. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-09-0.u17300	Thank you. I give my word to MP Dragan Vujadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-09-0.u17301	Dear gentlemen of the Ministry, dear colleagues, the motto of my presentation will be - not to be experimented at all costs. In the background of that sentence will be a short mini story about the Development Fund. For many years working in the economy, our economy of the Republic of Serbia, I met the Development Fund. Here's a mini ID. Last year, the Development Fund has placed its own funds of 12.7 billion, or around 150m euros, over the years. Fifty people were employed in that fund. There are no management contracts in that fund, no representations, no protections. Have you heard of any story, that someone at the Development Fund asked for money to get a loan? He never showed up in our press. That's what I'm saying from the corner of a lot of companies where I applied and participated in requests for approval of individual loans. In that sense, there must not be any variation, static or dynamic, experimenting with an institution that has shown its vitality, showing that it works for this real sector of ours, from which the entire state building lives, a large bulky one, but also the future smaller one will live from that real sector again. As far as the Fund itself is concerned, the only thing that may be, in my opinion, the weak side that violates the Law on Prohibition of Discrimination, the Fund leads four women, is the director of women and three other executive directors have been women and directors for eight years now, which means that in the time of the denominations people passed the test of efficiency. Now I'm talking about experiments. One of the experiments was when we launched preferential credit lines, here's how they were formed: 30% of the funds were paid by the Fund 1% interest; 70% of the business bank at 8% interest; the weighted interest rate was 5.5% and per year. I talked slowly, and a lot of people talked casually, so it wouldn't be an ex-post mind, that it was better if the Fund had kept its regular assets, had placed 3%, as usual, and had made a special agreement with the banks, that banks were imperatively pushing them to reduce their interest rates and adjust the rate of the eurobor which is now 1.6 to 1.9% on the six-month level. If they take 2-3%, they could give themselves 5.5, not 7-8%, and reduce the Fund's potential. This was and it was finished, by appealing to the ministry gentleman, I wrote about it as an individual several times, that practically for consumer credits besides permanent consumer goods, which are called "punto", or cars, it is necessary to create a preferential credit line for privileged financing at the highest interest rate of up to 4.5% for construction material and thermal insulation material, because it is an economic multiplier. If we want to boost our internal demand, start development, make some inside of it a deal, then it's a section that needs to be forced because it branches, you know how multiplier it works on many branches. Another possible potential experiment is a merger, this isn't a merger of two funds, this is the attachment of the Guarantee Fund, which I would put in this group of experiments, the Development Fund. It must not be allowed to attach the Guarantee Fund to people who come, either by policy or by deposit, or by function, to compromise the function that already exists, which is being carried out by the Development Fund. It's a good thing the Development Fund gave up to take over all the people. There are 34 people in the Guarantee Fund. The Development Fund, as far as I know, will only receive four or five people. That shows the direction of movement in some of these institutions. I repeat, it would be really necessary for the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia, in the last text I called it "a business mother" in about ten recent years, to preserve its vitality, to preserve its functions and to preserve its credit potential, not to be infected with any policy, whether that policy refers to any ministry or any other interest group, with any financial institution, in this case, the Guarantee Fund. In this regard, I have submitted an amendment – that the cost of severance, for the social programme of 30 people from the Guarantee Fund, is borne by the budget of the Republic of Serbia rather than the Fund, because if it is borne by the Fund, then that credit potential of 12 billion, and otherwise it is reduced by five billion for these weighted, or subsidized, credit lines with business banks, it will continue to decrease. The real sector is best loans from the Development Fund – investment for five years, plus one year starts and 3% interest, and for permanent crafts, two years and nine months starts, and here we substitute with loans for one year. Indeed, this potential needs to be increased, not, in the opposite sense, reduced. Finally regarding the chamber system, I would return to the point of three of my presentations, to the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Chamber Act, only one sentence, to that motto – not to be experimented at all costs, I would apply it here and so, with two indents. The first is that we need to think carefully and see what others are doing in terms of this chamber system of organising the real sector. Two, too, make it clear to our chamber system that it really has to be on the ground, to be a servant of the economy, of the real sector. We're in half the company today, small and medium-sized enterprises, big companies, we don't have people to make programs to apply to investment funds, how they're going to apply to banks. Why isn't the chamber working? Why doesn't the chamber train people or secure their people to work for businesses? Other specific tasks of the chamber must also work in the future, in order to truly justify the role of the service of the real sector. Among other things, the chamber must have a real impact on lawmaking, preventatively affecting the adoption of laws in our parliament, as well as on changes and additions and timely response, because, I repeat once again, our entire state building, including this high house, depends solely on the real sector. If the real sector does not continue to realise the growth rates measured in recent years by 4.5%, and this cannot be achieved under the conditions of the major global economic crisis, the state must indeed help it. All state institutions must also assist the Development Fund and the Chamber of Commerce and the Government, finally and parliament, with timely adoption of those laws that represent an imperative for the operation of such an economy. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-09-0.u17302	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Mrs. Vesna Pesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-09-0.u17303	President-in-Office, honourable MPs, I've had a few questions about this law. First, when the Development Fund Act started to be analysed, I'm saying it would be precise, it seems kind of calm, and it's happening nicely. I think it's a good thing that the Development Fund and the Guarantee Fund are connected. There's no need for these two funds to be separated and it's certain they can contribute to some kind of savings. But I'm kind of confused by these new projects that are just about the crisis, because when you look at it then you get the impression how much this fund is, now the Development Fund, and how much is this rescue fund now, how much is this one crisis fund? So, will his basic intentions be violated by this because it is evident that the reasons for the urgency of the adoption of this law are, in fact, related to the consequences of the economic crisis, and, of course, those measures are also mentioned by the Government for the crisis, like the three projects that are listed here and others have already listed them? So, this is – a programme to subsidise business with business banks, with the provision of liquidity guarantees for the bank's assets; a loan subsidy programme for the maintenance of liquidity for the financing of permanent crafts and consumer credit subsidisation programmes. When we see this, there's nothing developmental. That's really crisis. Consumer loans cannot be developmental. I can be motivated by the crisis now, but liquidity in itself does not belong to development elements, but to the rescue elements, as I called them. What is confusing me now, is there some information in the public that banks have already issued certain funds, according to these measures of the Government, the same ones that are in these three programmes, so whether there are two tracks to obtain, and according to the Fund, that someone can address the Fund, that I would not now read to you the news that has been given for liquidity, as much as is given for consumer loans, for example, for car purchases, or banks have given for liquidity and for incentives and for consumer loans? Now I ask – what is it? Is there an emergency procedure for the Fund to do something about this or are these two different tracks, since these are the same crisis measures that are from the government? It's not clear to me, because I see banks have already done their job, and I don't see why the Fund took it, or what it means – I just haven't been able to make it up to myself. Second, one, again, more principled question when it comes to the Development Fund. It has already been mentioned here who makes up the board of directors, that there are all representatives of coalition partners and that there are political implications. The idea is that it might be better to think about forming development banks in the future, instead of having situations that some funds, so the ministers directly give money, so maybe in the future there shouldn't be such a practice. I see that some here are more verifiable in the effects of this fund's work, however, this increase in the differences in development in Serbia, which have become terribly dramatic, because if we go through Serbia, it is evident that the absolute desert government in our country, so it seems to me that this law had to provide some sort of criterion – of those funds, of those billions that are divided there, yes, say, 50% goes there. The Minister said earlier, by the way, that some 14 billion were distributed last year, and that 2.5 billion of them went to municipalities that are most underdeveloped by criteria. Now I ask the question, this relationship seems insufficient to me, in other words, it's not enough for the law to stand, as if this is some kind of roof law, so we don't have any of that, any criteria, or if the interest rate is 1%, as it says, so interest rate 5%, we know that now official interest is down 15% -- how is someone even qualified? At least they can tell us what the percentage is and make a law covenant that the percentage goes undeveloped. If there are no criteria, but the law says that this is determined by the annual plan and the programme, how will the Fund work, it seems to me, if we do not tell the basic criteria by law, then that is too discretionary law. And wherever there's discretion, every honor, I haven't accused anyone, but where you have a lot of discretionary rights -- there can always be corruption and something that we can't exactly follow. So, at least some criteria are given as someone qualified, which percentage of these funds goes into underdeveloped, any criteria to get, say, a low 5% interest. Secondly, I see that the board of directors determines the guarantees for loans, and we don't know any criteria for how someone gets a guarantee and a super-guarantee. In order for this to be more transparent, because right now we are not going to make that development bank, so that these criteria are given in one objective way, I think it would be a good idea for some of that plan and program to go public so that we can monitor what are the basic criteria of sharing money from such large funds that are divided from such a fund, and I'm saying that because the results were not quite fascinating. We heard from our colleagues that these regional differences are increasing dramatically. In the end, I'd say that, probably because of speed, I'm asking the government not to deliver laws this messy. For example, you have on page 19 of one table – "The operating costs of the Guarantee Fund in 2008", where it does not stand up what these figures are. Please take a look at that. It's not gonna be thousands, millions, billions! What are those numbers? Then there's a figure of 22 billion something, but there's something in total, it says, 89.53. What's that? Is that thousands, millions, or billions?- I'm sorry. Simply, the source doesn't have a source. If there's a source down there, give us a source, it's not good to get these messy tables we can't read from because they're not well written. Also, it has already been distracted, I see that the IMF has advised us to move to the euro, but the law needs us to stick to order, not to stand that minimum fund or capital that should be five million euros because the euro still cannot figure in our laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-09-0.u17304	Thank you. Your parliamentary group has five minutes left. Mr. Dejan Radenkovic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-09-0.u17305	Dear Presidents of the National Assembly, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable minister, on the obligation that all laws, including the Chamber of Commerce Act, be in line with the new Constitution, I must say that my intention, the SPS, is to come up with the best solution, but also solutions that will be in line with our legal system and, above all, with the interests of Serbia's economy in general, as well as the chamber system. It is clear to me that there are a number of conflicting views regarding the law on chambers, i.e. the way in which the position of chambers in the legal system of the Republic of Serbia would be seen. However, I believe that the grumblings of these opinions point to the conclusion that those who publicly or in any other way amounted to them did not rightly view the position of chambers in the already mentioned legal system of the Republic of Serbia. According to the 2006 Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the economic order is based on the market economy, open and free market, freedom of entrepreneurship, independence of business entities and equality of private and other forms of property. In view of this, as well as the fact that the applicable Chamber of Commerce Act was a minimum basis for regulating the position of chambers by law, on the principle of compulsory association of business entities and on the principle of obligation of membership, I suggest that the amendments and additions of the Chamber of Commerce Act would in this way necessarily have consequences for reviewing the organisation of chambers on the principle of obligation and on the territorial principle. Therefore, the amendments and additions of the Chamber of Commerce Act at this time, i.e. the transition environment, are only possible in the scope of ensuring the improvement of work and the functioning of the chambers of the existing chamber system, without significant interventions in the part of the Law which regulates the issues of position and the organisation of chambers at any level, and in particular not in terms of changing the membership system. Initiatives relating to the organisation of the chamber system as a link between the forms of companies do not have their legal basis, since chambers of commerce are not companies or associations. Their position is particularly regulated by the law under which the chambers of the public rights institutions are independent, independent and have their legal subjectivity. The amendments and additions of the Chamber of Commerce Act should be further determined, i.e. to define the basic attributes of chambers as legal entities, property names and others, which is incompletely governed by the Act, thus ensuring the smooth functioning of chambers of commerce on the domestic and foreign markets. Dilems relating to the principle of membership, in the light of the practice above all in the environment, must be removed, and in this sense I point out that the current Law does not establish the principle of volunteering, but rather, the principle of obligation, and therefore any amendments and additions to the Chamber of Commerce should not be addressed. The 2001 Chamber of Commerce Act was introduced with the aim of building an open and market-oriented economy on the basis of the economic changes made in our society. The initial basis for the adoption of the applicable Law in this area was also the circumstance that the state played a major and fundamental role in the creation of the market environment and that this role was looked at in order to regulate economic space by law and other regulations. Accordingly, and according to the reputation of economic chambers in EU countries, the chamber system in the Republic of Serbia has been established according to the model of the Eurocontinental type of chambers of business. The legal system for the establishment of mandatory-member chambers is characteristic of the EU's most economically developed continental countries, but also of countries that have a long-standing tradition of the chamber system, which includes the Republic of Serbia. The determination to entrust the chamber with the exercise of public power is unequivocally indicative of the need for a clean legal model for the establishment of chambers. A clean legal model for the establishment of chambers of commerce also involves the acceptance of a mandatory membership system in chambers of commerce. The idea of setting up these chambers is that they represent the common interests of all economic operators in front of state authorities, and that is only possible if they are members of the Chamber of Commerce. The public character of the chamber system is reflected in the powers of the Serbian Chamber of Commerce to exercise public powers entrusted to it by law, such as the issue of certificates, credentials and other documents. The existing chamber system with Serbia's Chamber of Commerce as a national chamber has basically been established in line with the needs of Serbia's economy, and when it comes to chambers at regional and rural levels, there is a great resemblance in organisations and ways of operating these chambers with chambers of the same level organised in many countries around the world. The current legal regime of the chamber system in Serbia now has a very long tradition, as we have heard and is based on a legal legacy dating back to 1857, when Serbian Duke Aleksandar Karadjordjevic established the trade committee in Belgrade, whose jurisdiction applied to the entire Principality of Serbia. There are few institutions in Serbia who can boast of such a long and rich tradition. The membership on that committee was mandatory then and has not changed until today, and is now in force in the 2001 Law. Given this long tradition, which is more than 150 years old, it is forced to think that their own experiences must have primate when it comes to adapting our chambers to European chambers. In view of the fact that the current Law, which regulates the chamber system in the Republic of Serbia, corresponds with the laws of the EU countries and that the transition in the Republic of Serbia has not yet been completed, I believe that the conditions for establishing a chamber system have not been met on a different basis than the existing ones, since the new chamber system organisation would be an expression of the non-economic need, but above all, an expression of monopoly and other needs – which would further strengthen the positions of dominant entities in the Republic of Serbia and bring down the existing system of competition protection with us. However, the already established chamber system strengthens the need for its improvement on its part to strengthen the role of the chamber in several directions in which the chamber should be the initiator and promoter of economic laws, critic of the government's economic and social policy, business service and employers, organised educator, representative of the economy in front of the state and representative of the economy abroad. The proposed amendments and additions to the Law are fully certified, practically lost, so that the economy through its chambers has no impact on the creation of economic policy. In any event, the position of the chamber in terms of force and quality in the current circumstances is far more pronounced in the environment of mandatory membership and legal establishment than in the environment of voluntary membership and contractual establishment. Let me tell you why I believe that the chambers of commerce in Serbia have to be established exclusively by the law on mandatory membership for several reasons – because of the European and domestic tradition, because of the poor experience of the chamber that replaced this system with contractual establishment and voluntary membership, because of the weakness of the transition power for self-organization in this system in the voluntary system, the system of contractual establishment and voluntary membership would allow the imposition of interest of strong and small numbers over the weak and numerous, because of the government's stronger partner in the protection of the interest of the economy, in order to strengthen the international reputation of domestic economy, because of the equality of interest of economic operators, because of the lack of such obligation to change the system of membership and the establishment of EU regulations and the Union of European chambers, especially because of property and property aspects, and ultimately because of current developments on the global financial market, but because of such as in the process of change in Slovenia, in our countries, which we are surrounded by the transition, in Slovenia. Strong arguments are that the chamber system in Serbia should be transformed and organised according to the postulates of the European continental model. The latest developments on the financial market, particularly in the Americas that have been transferred to Europe and other continents, are a strong argument against the philosophy of free economy and self-organization of operators in terms of association, as the proposed changes and additions provide. Therefore, I believe that the draft law amending and supplementing the Chamber of Commerce Act, which was prepared by the Proposer, does not reflect the interests of the members of the chamber and the chamber system of Serbia in general, which is most important, if you would allow me to bring an end, a fundamental role to represent the interests of all its members, regardless of the size, structure and shape. I especially must point out that the bill that we are talking about today has not been passed through a professional public debate, and we have heard this many times today, before we refer to the Government to determine the proposal, after which we could certainly be given an opinion, but I am sure or perhaps prepare a different text of the law which in many ways, I am convinced, differs from this. Just to point out this is the essence of my presentation, and I am also finishing, that a change in the system of establishing a membership of a legal and compulsory person in a voluntary manner cannot be carried out by amendments and additions to the law. This can only be done by passing a completely new law to be prepared in co-operation with Serbia's Chamber of Commerce, a whole economy, to pass a public debate in the chamber system and economy in general. For the reasons that I have presented, and I would freely say too many adventures that we are needlessly engaged in, and all to the harm of Serbia's economy, I think we should think a little bit more about or accept our amendments that we have submitted, in order to come to a law that is good and efficient. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-09-0.u17306	Thank you, Mr. Radenkovic. I give my word to MP Milan Lapčević.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-09-0.u17307	The President-in-Office, honourable gentlemen of the People's Parliament, dear Madam Minister, is little time to talk about these three laws in the joint debate, because there is much that the predecessors have said, but a lot of what they haven't said and which could stand in such short time for debate. First, I'll start with the Development Fund Act. The reasons for the adoption of such a law are to comply with the Constitution and it says that the Development Fund will encourage even regional development. I have not seen anywhere any provision that is a mechanism that will provide even regional development through the Development Fund. If that hadn't happened in the past, I would have told you just one example, that during 2007, the municipality of Southeastern Serbia withdrew barely about 15% of the total funding from the Development Fund, while the resources went to municipalities that were more developed, mainly around Belgrade and Vojvodina. This does not encourage even regional development, but rather, these differences are deepening further. If that were true, it says that the average salary in Belgrade is 44,000 dinars, and let's say that in the municipalities of Southeast Serbia there are barely 15,000 dinars and that relationship is one to three. The number of Belgrade employees ranged from 8% to 10 maximum, while in certain municipalities of Southeast Serbia over 30%. The development of infrastructure negatively contributes to this issue that even regional development does not exist, but regional differences are growing. In this law, I do not see a mechanism anywhere that will reduce these differences, i.e. how there is a obligation to combine more money evenly into undeveloped areas. The head office of this fund will be in Belgrade. Another contribution to the fact that none of this has anything to do with hundreds of other agencies and regulatory bodies being based and this fund will be in Belgrade, and it will be tasked to develop evenly regionally other parts of Serbia, i.e. to promote a balanced development of the landscape. Why didn't you put the fund's headquarters as an exception, for example, in Književac, Pirot, Prokuplje or any place far more undeveloped than Belgrade? We should not talk about the fact that besides hundreds of other agencies and regulatory bodies, whose headquarters is in Belgrade, they work at 15, 50, perhaps hundreds of people. All of them are from Belgrade again, thus reducing unemployment in Belgrade, while unemployment is increasing in other parts of Serbia. The Fund's Management Board is made up of certain ministers, and the chairman of the Management Board is Minister for Economics and Regional Development. The Director of the Fund is appointed by the Government, and the report on the work of the Fund is delivered to the Ministry. The Director shall be appointed by the Government and the Director shall represent and manage the Fund. What's the logic here? The Ministry of Development has a supervisory function over the work of the Development Fund. Now the Minister of Economy and Regional Development will control the Fund's work and control himself as the Fund's president. It's nowhere to be found. The chamber law has been delivered to us by emergency procedure, and will apply since 2013. What's the emergency? What's burning in there? Why are we not talking about burning economic problems, but we are talking about chambers, or is that why people and MPs deal with other issues, rather than those that are essential to the lives of citizens? We heard a flash of remarks that this law did not go through a public debate. We heard from the Industry Committee just now that neither the chambers were consulted nor any public discussion of this amendment to the law has passed. We have heard from many of you that you have experienced numerous economic operators, businessmen, foreign investors and that they have complained about this way of organising the chamber and that it needs to be changed. I'm very interested in explaining how you've been contacted or contacted by the Ministry of Economy, who's been answering the phone, how did you organize it, from which the structure of people, which is their number, is to be a relevant opinion and reason to change the law the way you've changed it?- I'm sorry. After all, it is not disputed to go with amendments to the law, but in this way it is truly unacceptable. Why is this law, like the other day a set of laws, proposed by the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, someone else? Two days ago, we had several ratifications, the proposal was made by the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, there were no representatives of the ministry. Today, I do not know the gentlemen beside you, Madam Minister, yet there is no Minister Dinkic and there are no people from the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development who could defend this law and answer these questions. What does that mean? That Minister Dinkic is afraid to come to the Assembly to answer these questions, and not only this one, and the very other one about the great promises he made, and pure lies and fraud of Serbian citizens. What does it mean that 50 operators can establish a chamber? Does this mean that we can theoretically have 5,000 chambers of commerce in Serbia. Then who will represent the Serbian economy? What chamber? Serbia's Chamber of Commerce, which may have a hundred members and another 5,000 members. How will this mechanism be implemented? Who do we even ask these questions to? Will you answer these questions? You represent another ministry. What about the great promises your party and your minister made about investments in Serbia, about 1,000 euros in shares in the Fiat? How come someone else comes by the difolt to represent laws that are in front of the Ministry of Economy? Is that a party thing, perhaps? If by that logic, Mr Bradic, the culture minister, could also come to represent this law. We heard earlier on the Committee that this law was adopted unanimously by the Government, and we also heard from representatives of the two parliamentary groups ruling not to support this law. Then why is there a government if one vote is voted in the Government and the parliamentary groups do not support it? Then the government doesn't need to put together at all, the ministries can send the laws directly and then we discuss them, the government shouldn't exist, it doesn't do anything anyway. Thank you. Either way, we're not gonna back these laws. [[Applause]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-09-0.u17308	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Jorgovanka Tabakovic. I'm sorry, it wasn't marked that Mrs Tabakovic had already spoken. Mr. Zeljko Ivanji. Please sign in so I can turn on your microphone.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-09-0.u17309	Thank you. Dear Presidents, the Honorable Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when we talk about chambers of commerce in Serbia, I cannot comment on the letters with which we are buried these days, the letters sent by the chambers, both the Republic Chambers and the regional chambers. I see that these chambers, as they say, fully reject this proposal to amend and supplement the law. In an explanation, the first article states that the chamber system is an association of businesses, which normally works by regulating the law previously adopted by the economy at a public debate. It is normal for you to function normally when you have a membership fee that comes to your budget regularly and that you give these members nothing in return, a membership fee that is mandatory for those members. If we multiply 72 dinars with the number of employees in business companies in Serbia, we will get the amount that the chamber charges through mandatory membership fee, the Chamber of the Republic of Serbia, which currently employs 350 persons, and regional chambers are also charging membership fees. In addition to Serbia's Chamber of Commerce, 19 more chamber legal entities, the Vojvodina Chamber of Commerce, Novi Sad, Belgrade and 16 regional chambers are figure out. I will also remind the MPs that the average earnings in the Serbian Chamber of Commerce last December amounted to 66,214 dinars. The often mentioned chamber system of Austria has 4,670 employees. There is a mandatory membership, but it should not be forgotten that Austria's economy in 2007 amounted to 114.7 billion euros, thus the seventh in the world. Gross national income per capita is 31,000 euros, making it 13th in the world. They have over 120 million foreign tourists overnights. So it's about a top-notch economy. If the Serbian Chamber of Commerce could secure a rise like this, I would always allow it and be in favour of mandatory membership. No one wants to shut down the chamber, but according to sources from small and medium-sized enterprises, they need institutions to gather them together and protect their interests. Of course they must and may be chambers, but chambers based on a voluntary principle of association, based on principles of clean bill, transparent costs, representative forces of association that account for their members. What's it look like today? Small and medium-sized enterprises have an obligation to pay membership fees to the regional or the Republic Chamber, but do not exercise their right to vote. The chamber management bodies are proposed mostly by old members of these same bodies, with the addition of some new but "like member". For verification are competent congregations whose members are also elected by the managing authorities. The chamber system is not yet democratisationd and it is with a retrograde system of governance, with people who have run over by time, but people who are still convinced to represent the interests of the economy. So small and medium-sized enterprises are condemned to a controversial, exclusively individual appearance towards the state, and if anyone claims that the Chamber of Commerce of the Republic of Serbia represented the interests of the particular engine of our economy, which is small and medium-sized enterprises, let them address them for their opinion. In any case, these changes and additions will allow the Republic of Serbia Chamber to prove its positions and its own sustainability. A gesture of goodwill by the legislator is the application of this law, which starts in 2013, but I remind MPs that by 2013 the Serbian Chamber of Commerce will be able to earn another sevenm euros a year in membership fees, what it is now earning, and another million in profits through projects that the Chamber collects from members who pay its membership fees. That's inadmissible. It is inadmissible that you receive nothing in return, and that the Chamber is charging you with the projects it offers to your companies. I know of cases that in public enterprises there are projects that the Chamber collects and that the amounts of which are "hundreds" of thousands of euros. It's a tight system where friends assign positions and functions to themselves and decide on behalf of most people who just have to pay membership fees, not to worry, because that's where Mele, Jasa, sits down the company. I can't help evacuating the memories of the year 2000 and the period after 2000, when I also represented this thesis that is now mentioned in this law, a system of voluntary membership and freedom of association. Even then, I had the idea that registration of economic operators should be in chambers of commerce, and certainly not in a trade court that proved to be corrupt and that this is how it also realised revenues. Some judges who have registered in the register are making illegal incomes and are in prisons today or are in criminal proceedings. So, I had an idea for the registration to be there, a new model of registration was created that was good, registration was fast and at the Agency for the Registration of Business Entities. I also remember what happened when the Chamber of Yugoslavia was joined with the Chamber of Republic of Serbia, when there was a general scratching about who would be the Chamber of Serbia, whether then the Chamber of Yugoslavia or the Chamber of Serbia and what would happen with the funds of that Chamber of Yugoslavia. The Serbian Chamber of Commerce, which was a Chamber of Commerce then, won and took over all funds from the Yugoslav Chamber of Commerce. I remember that fight. It was a struggle for those who cared only about their own interests, not the interest of members of the Chamber of Commerce. If I were in the position of manager in the chamber, I would look forward to these changes and additions because they would give me the opportunity to confirm my management capacity, try the competition and confirm my position among the members of the chamber who, if satisfied with the work of the chamber so far, will not change the chamber they belong to, which they pay the membership fee and which they will continue to pay the membership fee neatly. There are still many things that need to be regulated legally, acting in the interests of always apostrophe of small and medium-sized enterprises, as well as the interests of individual agricultural producers who are calling for the law on cooperative association, therefore, for the new concept of cooperative, because this current old and retrograde system, as is the system of organising chambers of commerce. The chamber must define the interests of its members and even create a production range necessary for producers gathered in enterprises, investors who will be more and more in Serbia after the end of the global economic crisis. It's inevitability. We don't have a production today that could serve a complete production of one "punta", I mean parts that are built into a car. Our interest is that all parts of this car are produced in Serbia, such as the interest of the Italian investor and the new owner, too, for the very simple reason that if you have parts here, it reduces the costs of the final product. It's economic interest because it's cheaper for him. It's not the result of love, economic love, which is the patent of our economic relations most often with the Russian Federation. The chamber did not deal with the team, certainly not, because it dealt with its representations, its employees, and the design of projects that were mostly not served by anyone. Manufacturers will organise themselves safely in clusters, make a chamber of a regional nature, not because someone told them or because they pay membership fees, because they should choose Laza or Neleta, but because it requires common sense, because it implies an economic interest that will indirectly affect new employment, the remaining people in their places, the raising capacity of local self-government. The state is there to give the framework to, rather than impose, and to obliterate an institution that has yet to be proven after 150 years of existence. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-09-0.u17310	Thank you. I give my word to the MP, Professor Dragoljub Micunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-09-0.u17311	Madam President, dear Minister, fellow MPs, it is my great pleasure to take part in this debate with different arguments. Although I'm not a businessman, but I've had a chance to observe life socially or economically, so I dare say something about this. There's one more thing that makes me take my word for it, to quote old philosopher Dekart who said the rules of the method -- "I accept the truth only what my mind shows as clear and eloquent." From this debate, there's a few things I understand, a lot of things I don't understand. So I want to ask you, Madam Minister, and some questions, so that I can understand how many who have said that were clear. Of course, as a People's MP, I try to safeguard integrity and vote for what I am convinced of. I would ask you to assure me that this is what I should vote for, not only on the basis of loyalty to the government or the authority of any author, but also on the basis of arguments. Obviously, both sides can offer arguments. Now let's face them and see what's wrong with us and what's right with us. There are a lot of those who have received 50 letters, acts, and it's not true that they're all the same, where they're written I don't know, but they have stamps of various regional, urban and other chambers of commerce. To me, that doesn't mean disqualification that their arguments are similar or the same. On the contrary, it strengthens the argument and says that people from all over, from different chambers of commerce, see some of the same things. On the other hand, I've heard from you that you have, too, objections from many and the wish of various other economic operators to change the Chamber of Commerce Act, but we haven't heard their names, and this one here we have in writing and we know who they are. I've got a lot of questions coming up in me right now. One of the essential arguments mentioned here was that this ensures the equality of all economic operators in the country. I have no doubt that one Chamber of Commerce will immediately be located with 50 members and will remain there and those of others may not even appear. But the fact that 50 chambers that can represent 50 of the richest businessmen, that will enrich our economic life, I have certain doubts. It's not yesterday's thing. This controversy exists in all economies and societies a long time ago. 40 years ago, I was listening to a debate in Italy about how what's good for Fiat, it's good for Italy, therefore, look only at the interests of the Fiat, and you're certainly not going to make a mistake. Then I heard some smart people say the other way around, what's good for Italy will be good for Fiat. It doesn't take much imagination to see who was against the chamber when the president was recently elected a year ago and maybe two. They wanted to take over a chamber of many influential people, then it didn't work out for them, but is that why they went to another extreme? With this I do not want to defend a system of chambers of commerce which, like all other major systems, is very quickly bureaucratized, very quickly ceases to be efficient, many negative phenomena appear and special interests may arise, especially in the Houses, etc. It's all there. Also, this membership fee issue should lead to some level that would not only have to be in line with the services, but also in line with our overall economic and financial opportunities. That's definitely something to change, too. But now there's a problem. We're passing a law, where there are over 100,000 members, I don't know exactly how many members of the Chamber of Commerce have, without having entered a clear dialogue with them before we came to this law. The government recently withdrew one law, after which it claimed – it will return it with a little change, that it is good, because it wanted to hear all the factors of society and that it is not bad. It wouldn't be bad for this government, if the rules were already such a precedent, and this thing to think about or think about a number of amendments that are being made here. It would not be good if only on the basis of the fact that this was sent by the government in an emergency procedure, and many have said so, that it would come into effect in 2013, and now it is an emergency procedure, if anything in this matter is suspicious and unclear, is exactly what it is and why it was necessary. Now, we need to plead on that. I have no intention of informing anyone about the subject of this law we're discussing. I just wanted to ask you to explain to me why, because I represent here this coalition for European Serbia, and it is our job to bring all our laws into line with European laws. In that sense, this would have to be European law. Then why is this law not European? So we have to explain why we're giving up the chamber system if it's accepted by all industrially developed countries. My colleague and friend Ivanji just mentioned Austria. It would be nice if we were as rich as Austria, but it's not exactly the chamber that we don't have that gross product that Austria has. The question is, if we want to be as rich as Austria or regret that we didn't, then why didn't we accept their chamber editing system but go with another concept? I remember, 15 years ago I went with Djindjic to visit the German Chamber of Commerce. I must admit that for me it was a terrible surprise, over 2,000 members, it worked as an hour, it was what was really a life-form of Germany. I didn't see that there was a problem that all the information that they can then share with each other and that can also affect the even development of Germany. One of the leaders or creators of the wonders of the German Erhardt, has just set up his economic reforms. We have two concepts in the world today, and they break spears about it. On one side we have a liberal or neoliberal, which will solve these problems by the invisible hand of the market. Come on, let's get dragged by those engines of economic development, big corporations that didn't get very famous in this whole world crisis. For small countries like us, the accent must be, we heard, I think Mr. Ivanji talked about it, it's small and medium-sized enterprises, small countries, but to protect them. Big corporations won't protect small businesses. Let's ask many trade chains how they treat their suppliers and manufacturers, what it means to delay for five, six months, etc., is it then suffocating these business entities or not choking them, so let's see who really drives and dynamics life. On the other hand, I want to commend, too, the actions that come with the desire to invest with investment funds, to invest, etc. These two things are then contradictory in the desire to achieve a complete goal. I think you should seriously consider the amendments. I'd like you to convince me why the chamber system needs to be torn down. It's not just a question of tradition. I'm not a traditionalist, it's famous, but I've been to a 150-year-old chamber recently, I haven't seen any words that would be so deeply skeptical about the existence of the Chamber of Commerce itself. I'm afraid by law like this, before we've had a fundamental debate and dialogue with all the economic operators representing the chambers now, we're going to be in suspense of what's going to happen in that entire economic field. It would have been good if we had achieved this dialogue, it would have been good if we had achieved it in parliamentary groups, and then the minister came to convince us why we should vote in favour of the law. I don't belong to those, and other people have this problem that they'd like to be convinced that something is right, because I'm not the only one who got this, all the board presidents of this paper with these arguments and a lot of other additional data. It would have been good if we had discussed this thoroughly, and surely we all wanted to get to the best solutions, it's certain that we have to have a new law on chambers, but then we have to do it one fundamental way, with the others, which could then be applied tomorrow, not in four years. All in all, I have great doubts about this law and I would be very grateful if you could at least assure me of these key matters concerning the chamber system and the urgency of this law. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-09-0.u17312	Thank you, Mr. Professor. There were no elements for replication, no offensive content. He's mentioned by name, but not in the context of an insult. I'm getting a suggestion that it's a misread attitude. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-09-0.u17313	I just wanted to explain my presentation in one sentence. So, small and medium-sized enterprises will decide, with these changes and additions, who will protect them. My view is that this chamber system is not working, and it is precisely the right to protect these small and medium-sized enterprises and their right to freely join guarantees and the Constitution of our country.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-09-0.u17314	Mrs. Natasa Micic has a word. You've got five minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-09-0.u17315	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, it's nice to have you with us, but it doesn't justify Mr. Mladjan Dinkic's absence, which I don't consider to be any greater expert than you, because it's enough and that term has been devastated in this country, but I think he's the most responsible for the set of these laws, so I wonder what was before and more important today than the minister being here with us in Parliament. I was lucky to be a professor. Micunovic speaks before me, and that is one proof that I am using this imprecise and inaccurate law, without enough data, without any analysis, comparative or any other kind, even the MPs of the ruling majority, and that is one experienced politician, Mr Micunovic, as a member of the parliamentary majority, has been brought into a dilemma whether to support this law. That's what my basic objection is to this set of laws, which is that we don't have enough data here, we don't have any credible analysis that would convince us that this package of laws is actually doing some reform in this real sector. The adoption by an emergency procedure of a law that will only apply from 1 January 2013, in fact, I am talking about your relationship with Parliament, but also about society in total, because in today's time of unresolved state issues, during the time of the economic crisis, in addition to this economic crisis that we have, the uninterrupted devasting of institutions, we are adopting some law that will only apply in 2013. My question is: What will happen to the property of the chambers of commerce, central and these regional ones, until 2013 and why is it necessary for four years to apply for the competition that this law allows them? However, I would rather abide by this second law, a law on the Development Fund. Also, the same remark. Actually, we're discussing a cat in a bag here. We don't have any concrete results. Why has no report ever been submitted to the National Assembly or to the public, to the media, however, about the operation of the Development Fund? I think it works by party directives and I believe that all MPs here will agree that these are some of the ominous criteria that you provide for the possibility of some economic operators to make loans and that this fund is operating, in some way, in a gray zone. For example, I managed to find a report for 2007, the audit institutions you hired, so the Development Fund, which assessed as an illegal operation of the Fund, or abstained from thinking, stating that, firstly, the Fund did not carry out the disclosure of information on financial assets and liabilities, as well as the disclosure of the objectives and policies of risk management, then, the write-off of obligations and the recognition of income is not in line with the relevant documentation, that the Fund does not have the appropriate documentation, further, that there are no commissions contracts, and the basic way that the Fund works is through committee funds, so I wonder, after a report that is negative, today we are discussing a law that we are giving the Fund even greater powers. So we put him on the Guarantee Fund, and it's not enough to distribute funds, but that this same fund gives guarantees, we remove the Supervisory Board, and the chairman of the Management Board will again be Minister for Economics and Development, and supervision will be carried out by the Ministry of Economics and Development. There is a big question of celery in general and the availability of these funds. In the very reasoning of the law, in one sentence, where you are talking about determining the problems this law should solve, you have stated that the result of these problems is the irrational use of funds from the Republic of Serbia's budget. We MPs simply owe an answer to the question, who is responsible for the irrational use of budget funds. All that I've brought out actually points to the position of the Liberal Democratic Party that we can't vote for this set of laws. In addition, we have previously, and since the Minister for the National Investment Plan and a member of the Committee on the National Investment Plan, we have indicated that this is also a quasi-Budget system, this National Investment Plan, and the funds are being allocated, too, unoccupiedly... (President: Time, Mrs. Micic. I end up in one sentence. It happens that a local community in the town where I come from, Uzicu, MZ Mokra Gora gets two and a half times as much funding, 244 million received Emir Kusturica for Nature Park, while, for example, the Pryte that should be an undeveloped municipality, in the last three years has received nothing. Emir Kusturica gets more than one Vranja, gets two and a half times more than Užica and gets 244 million more than Priboj.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-09-0.u17316	Madam Minister, he wants to speak. Here you go, Mrs. Kalanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-09-0.u17317	Let me just say one thing about the remarks you've been repeating. And simply, at this point in time, on supervision at the Development Fund, I want to say, in a way, to direct the further discussion, which means the Supervisory Board, which means supervision, how the Development Fund actually operates. It seems to me that there are no more controlled institutions in Serbia today than the Development Fund. And no matter how many times you control the Development Fund, there are no negative auditor reports. The Development Fund is an institution which is an example of good work and business in the previous period. I'm sorry that today under the pressure of political struggle and party membership we're talking about something that isn't what we're dealing with on the ground. Mr. Lapcevic, who often attended meetings with me during the previous cabinet's term, did not listen to these things he's talking about today. I want to say what levels of supervision are provided for by the Fund Act at the Development Fund. First, the internal audit was introduced for the first time in one financial institution in Article 21. An external audit, where an auditor is scheduled not to be international, but with an international reputation. So far, auditors from the domestic market have been auditing. After that, the board of directors, of which is only one member of the economy and regional development minister, and we have six other members planned next to it. So there is no possibility that the chairman of the board of directors and anyone who once was on the board of directors, and there are those who were on the board of directors, knows that one person - one vote - is being voted. It is not possible for the chairman of the board of directors to launch or turn the discussion from one direction to another, although there is never a vote, because the criteria for granting credit are clear. Ratings are fully defined according to all the standards that business banks do as well. There are no party loans or non-partisan loans. These are banking criteria under which loans in the Development Fund are granted. The following institutions are: the supervision of the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development at the moment, but to remind you, the supervision of the work of the Development Fund has always had the economy ministries in the previous period, Mr Bubalo and, in the previous period, ministers who were in charge of the economy. It's something that's a practice that's been passed on. He can't control the Development Fund to run the Ministry of Culture. That's totally logical. Furthermore, the finance minister, you reminded me well, has been obliged on the board of directors and since there has been a Fund of Deputy Chairmans of the Management Board, so there is always the Minister of Finance and are very well-incorporated in the work of the Development Fund. In addition, the Management Board directs the government a report every six months on business and once a year on the audit carried out. Behind that, an annual report to the National Assembly. Also, the Development Fund is subject to the control of all banks in the National Bank of Serbia. I simply want to hear which financial institution in Serbia is subject to this number of controls such as the Development Fund. There's no policy, there's no setup, there's no corruption. I'm sorry I can't convince you all at this point, but we can do what you say, you'd like to hear a transmission from the government. I'd like you to hear the transfer from the Management Board of the Development Fund. I think all those who are currently discussing in this direction would be disappointed.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-09-0.u17318	Mr. Obradovic has a word. Please, you have no right to a replica, because it is the right to a replica at the discretion of the chairman. I estimate that there were no offensive or any other content to replicate. Here you go, Mr. Beard.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-09-0.u17319	I'd like to ask Professor Micunovic to stay in the O.R. He just left. It is not often the case that MPs of the ruling majority support the opposition, and it is not often that MPs agree with the other side. The dilemmas that Professor Micunovic has are precisely the dilemmas that we had analyzed this law. I'm sorry the professor isn't here right now. It has been pointed out several times that the law has been proposed by emergency procedure. Apparently, there are a number of open questions. Clearly, many unresolved issues exist within the ruling majority. We support all the dilemmas that Professor Micunović has. We would be very interested to hear the answers to all these questions raised by the ruling majority in this debate. That and how it affects the debate. It doesn't make sense that we bring forward prepared reports here, no matter what our fellow MPs say and what they point to. It is very important that we hear what it is that is an open dilemma so that we know how we will behave in the discussion in particular.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-09-0.u17320	Mr. Palalic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-09-0.u17321	Dear President, Minister Kalanovic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to begin by saying that exactly the topic we are discussing today, the way it was proposed to the National Assembly, speaks of a complete absence of feelings about the reality of this government. In fact, we are discussing laws, specifically I am talking about the draft law amending the Law on Chambers to regulate the chamber system, with the idea of entering into force in 2013. We are talking about a proposal on amendments to the Development Fund Act, which needs to be amended over the next few years to define development policy in the Republic of Serbia. At this point when we talk about these big strategic things that are supposed to be dealt with, we are facing huge and difficult problems in a large number of local self-governments that have been talked about today, allegedly about places where all these big plans of the Development Fund should be realized. Just as this development policy is being discussed, the government of the Republic of Serbia, contrary to all these declarative stories, reduces the transfer funds to local self-government by 15 billion, more specifically 40%. At the same time the government of the Republic of Serbia is deprived of local self-government in a large number of local self-government over 50% of their budgets. What would local self-governments say about this debate where it is a difficult situation and where these transfer funds mean life, such as Tutina, Žabara, Doljevac, Black Weeds, Bosilegrada, Frogs, Dimitrovgrada, Raznja, Kursumli, Majdanpek? Certainly these people who are now to solve specific problems in these municipalities are not interested in some law that should take effect in 2013, which was brought without any consultation with natural partners, i.e. with chambers of commerce. I want to say that this law becomes a series of things already the government's policy, to break down institutions. This law degrades one institution, Serbia's Chamber of Commerce, and regardless of the reasons we have heard here, primarily from one political party and from the ministry's representative, we have not received any more concrete and serious argument here. Instead of dealing with demagogue recommendations, instead of dealing with laws that do not have the support of Parliament, and not only the public, I suggest that the Government give up one concrete step – to reduce the transfer funds in local self-governments. They have besides these measures that they have now defined, savings in the ministries, and how much more space to squeeze. Let them be squeezed, let them give up on individual travels, individual contracts of work, specifications of various services, and let them save and give up on the reduction of local self-government transfer funds, to deal with life, to deal with specific daily problems, current developments and current problems that local self-government has, instead of some laws that are in no way able to solve these day-to-day problems. The government should deal with daily problems, not deceive Parliament here. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing a law that, without the support of the assembly partners, should come into force in 2013 and break down an institution. Is that the interest of the ruling coalition? And I know that a large number of mayors and presidents of municipalities from the ruling parties are asking the government to withdraw this decision to reduce the transfer funds. In the end, I want to say that the government should withdraw the draft law amending the Law on Chambers of Commerce, having a more serious public debate, making a partnership with the economy, seeing where the problems are, if there are problems in the functioning of the chamber system, and then coming up with a serious argument with Minister Dinkic here in the debate on this issue, and focusing on real problems, such as the difficult trouble that has hit our local self-government by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-09-0.u17322	Ms. Natasa Micic has advertised the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-09-0.u17323	I'm advertising a violation of article 100, I'm misread, or the minister didn't tell the truth. She said there's no report for the Fund that's negative about the Fund's business. In fact, it says how much better it would be if Minister Dinkic were here because he knew, he hired an audit institution called BDO-BC EXEL, which made an audit report for operations on 16 June 2008. It hasn't been done for 2008. It's just some of the items I listed, which are perceived as negative. In addition, the auditor who signed it, Mrs Ksenija Ristic-Kostic, also noted and drew attention that the Fund had not received an opinion from the competent state authorities regarding the treatment of corporate tax exemptions. Let's just say you missed that, too. Then, I think it would be interesting to say, among other things, that in the course of our fight for the preservation of Kosovo, the Fund has generated revenues from selling apartments in Kosovo. It's just that there's nothing in public. If it had leaked somewhere, I believe you would have suffered great criticism, as the Liberal Democratic Party had a different view than most, or from all others on Kosovo, you know what kind of criticism it went through in public. In the end, I'd just like to add, as far as the National Investment Plan is concerned, and what I mentioned about Emir Kusturica, 244 million dinars, you didn't talk about it, you didn't answer me anything. If your intention was to encourage Nature Park, tourism, regional development, then it's not a good example of how you invested money, because Užice next to that local community, Mokra Gora, has Tara, Zlatibor and various other destinations, lakes, caves, so it would be much better to invest in the airport, since our infrastructure and our roads are desperate, and with some airport we might actually speed up the development of tourism. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-09-0.u17324	Mrs. Micic, there was no breach of the Rules of Procedure. The procedure wasn't compromised. The contents of the Minister's statement are something that is her right. Mr. Lapcevic also advertises a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Please, just so there's no abuse of the Rules of Procedure, because I'm going to have to say the measures in that case.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-09-0.u17325	Dear Chairman, I'm advertising the violation of Rule 101 and Article 100 of the Rules of Procedure. First, I will quote Article 100 paragraph 3: ''The President of the National Assembly, or the Chairman, gives a word to the MP who points to the violation of Article 1, following the completion of the presentation of the previous speaker, by the fact that the presidents of the parliamentary groups have the advantage. 'So, I called three speakers ago and I didn't get the word right away. It's the first injury. The second injury, Article 101: ''If the MP in his presentation at the meeting of the National Assembly is insultingly expressed about the MP from another parliamentary group, citing his name and name or function, or misreading his presentation,'' therefore, that is the provision to which I call, ''the People's MP to whom the presentation refers, has the right to replication. ''So, I was mentioned in the presentation of Minister Kalanovic's name and last name, there was no offensive presentation, but there were direct mentions and wrong interpretations. Based on the same provision and on the same basis, Mr. Ivanji got the word, and you didn't give me the word. Tell me, what is the criterion? What does that mean, that opposition MPs can't get by the same criteria of violation of the Rules of Procedure or the right to replica against MPs? What's wrong with the interpretation, I was saying, Mrs Kalanovic, that there are no mechanisms for accelerated regional development in the provisions of this development fund law, and I supported the facts in the Development Fund's report, take it and see if I don't present these figures here now. The second thing I also said was that the chairman of the Board of Directors is the minister responsible for economic affairs, that the supervisory function is performed by the Ministry of Economy and that the report is delivered to the Government by the Ministry of Economy, and that the Fund represents the Director, representing the Fund, organises and manages the work of the Fund, and the government is directly setting it up. Tell me, where's the logic? That's the wrong interpretation of what I said. You were talking about something else, and I don't know what I didn't listen to at the meetings I attended while you were acting as assistant minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-09-0.u17326	It's been two minutes, MP. So, when an MP replicates a Member, it is in accordance with Article 101. There's no replica of the minister's and the others' exposure, that's the first. Secondly, more of you were reported at the same time, some of you were answering, and it was breaking up, so nothing was trendy. I apologize if you've contacted Mrs. Micic before or before Mr. Palalic, so I didn't give you my word. Furthermore, the breach of the Rules of Procedure was reported by Ambassador Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-09-0.u17327	Madam President, I'm advertising a breach of Article 104. Rules of Procedure. We are obliged by it to honor the dignity of the National Assembly. This Rules of Procedure apply to us and to all those who participate in the work of the congregation. I find it unacceptable to really pass over the harsh failures of Minister Kalanovic. Here, our MP, Mrs Micic, quoted an annual report by the auditors, which has been very critical of the Fund's work since 2007. The Minister told us before that there was no financial report. I don't think we can conduct any normal debate unless we have a fundamental confidence in the facts presented here by government representatives and representatives of other parliamentary groups, and we ourselves have to stand behind some of the facts that are crucial here for decision-making. Today we are taking part in a debate on an emergency procedure law that will take effect in four years. No argument has been offered to us by the minister all day on what it is done in this way, except, of course, that the parliamentary majority who respects the government accepts the government's directives, regardless of the fact that it undermines the credibility of the Assembly and dissipates the debate itself. Now, at the same time, we are discussing the Development Fund, because the debate is united, and the chambers of commerce, and instead of arguments, we get some attitudes that have no foothold in the facts. We need very clear facts – is there, Mrs Kalanovic, a 2007 financial report or does it not exist? We quoted you as the auditor's house that did this to you, the auditor who signed that report, the auditor's remarks – please tell us if this report exists or not? It offends the dignity and common sense of this House.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-09-0.u17328	The breach of the Rules of Procedure, gentlemen, concerns my holding of the session, not the content of Ms. Minister's apparition. Mrs. Jorvanka Tabakovic is also advertising the violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-09-0.u17329	I would like to point out that the Rules of Procedure have been injured in the sense that you do not respect Article 113, which I will read for all of them: "The provisions of this Rules of Procedure concerning order at the National Assembly session are applied to all other participants in the sitting", which means to Mrs Minister, "in addition to the Members of the People's Parliament", and further says... "and are applied accordingly to committee meetings and other working bodies.. "So, the right to the replica of your colleague, Lapčević, you have absolutely injured by disrespecting Article 113. Rules of Procedure and the following application of the rules of law on replication. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-09-0.u17330	The replica is not the subject of a breach of the Rules of Procedure, on the one hand. On the other hand, the chairman has a sovereign right to assess whether he has a basis for replication. Of course, the motion for an act in accordance with Article 93(2), or the authorised representative of the group of proposing acts, shall be given the floor whenever it requests. It shall not be subject to restrictions on the duration of exposure and other restrictions. There's a word Mr. Milos Radulovic has about the breach of the Rules of Procedure, but he didn't sign up, so I can't give him a word. You need to sign in electronically. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-09-0.u17331	I'm advertising an article. 104 and 113. Minister, Mrs Kalanovic, here in an explanation and in response to the draft law on the Development Fund, presented by DSS MPs and other opposition parties, presented incorrect information. In Article 15. The draft law on the Fund for Development states: "The Management Board of the Fund has a president and four members". The minister said the board of directors had six members. And I will remind only that members of the board of directors – the chairman of the board of directors, the Minister for Economics and Regional Development; and members of the board of directors are the minister in charge of finance affairs, the minister in charge of labour and social policy affairs, the minister in charge of infrastructure affairs and the minister in charge of trade and services affairs. I think it is the ultimate misrepresentation of Parliament that the representatives of the government come here without being familiar with the material, namely the law that is in the procedure and discussed by the MPs of the National Assembly. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-09-0.u17332	Mr. Ambassador, there was no breach of the Rules of Procedure. Namely, you have injured the Rules of Procedure by pointing to an injury in your conduct, which has already been spoken of, and in accordance with Article 100 paragraph 2: 'The MP cannot point to an injury in the conduct of the President of the National Assembly, or the chairman, which is already indicated. 'I won't give you a warning this time. Otherwise, this was the reason for the warning. I will ask you not to react in this way. The word is made by MP Ivan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-09-0.u17333	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, on today's agenda of the Republic of Serbia's Assembly, we also have a bill on the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia. The Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia has been functioning for more than 16 years and has not been legally framed in the best way. So some of the information he had was not provided for in the old Law, which was passed in 1992, which was updated in 2005. That was insufficient and then the proper procedures were passed through regulations, which is certainly not good. It is certainly a good thing to legally frame the functioning of the Development Fund as an institution that is developing and especially needed in these times, when we have a global economic crisis, which is present in Serbia as well. Therefore, the Fund has this importance and it is also necessary to legally shape its activities. This proposal also provides for the pooling of activities of the Guarantee Fund and the Development Fund. The Fund for Development, therefore, takes over the work of the Guarantee Fund and it is certainly good for better coordination, and it is good that this will also achieve savings in the administration. I would point out a few members who were interesting to me when I read this law. This is Article 2 of this bill, which says: "The Fund's activity is based on the following principles: 1 encouraging and even evaluation of development, including the development of underdeveloped areas; 2) encouraging the business of legal persons and entrepreneurs in the Republic of Serbia; 3) promoting the competitiveness and liquidity of the Republic of Serbia's economy; 4) encouraging employment. So I would underline point 3 of liquidity and competitiveness of the economy. I think it's very significant.. (The President warns the MPs not to interfere with the speaker. )......................................................................................................... that the Fund recognises the areas itself, recognises the priorities of the Fund's allocation, because the funds allocated from the Republic of Serbia's budget are never enough and it is very important to use them properly. So we have an economic crisis and we need to invest in new technologies, we need to invest in innovation, and we need our companies' products to be cheaper so we can place them and compete with other world companies. Also, energy efficiency is important and I think it is necessary to invest in improving energy efficiency, so that it is safe to support these programmes with which certain companies apply, as well as projects of companies that work to restore energy sources. Furthermore, attention should be paid to deficits, since we have a large external trade deficit, it should be supported by exporting companies, and it must be one of the priorities. So let us hope that the future Development Fund will pay attention to these programmes and will support them with certain financial tranches. What is important is Article 20, which determines internal and external audit, external and internal audit of the work of the Fund and the reports to be written. I think this fund has no reason not to be transparent and there is no reason for any information not to be available to any Serbian citizen. I am sure that, although there is enough information on the Fund's website, it needs to be extended further, everything that can be published, that it can be seen, especially if we know that almost 100% of the Fund's funds come from the budget of the Republic of Serbia and it is necessary for citizens to know where the money is spent. The external auditor, the reports sent to the Government and the Government delivers to the Assembly, is a good institute and a good way for this Assembly to make its own insight into how money is spent by the Fund and how that money is returned to the Fund's assets. In the report last year, we can see that a positive result has been achieved, that the Fund has achieved a 6% profit compared to the previous year and that the asset has increased around 3,060 billion. It can then be said that the appropriate instruments and guarantees were good, that they invested in good programs and that they returned accordingly. What may not be best is that certain municipalities did not have adequate representation. We have some municipalities below one percent, companies from certain municipalities have access to less than one percent, and that is where it should work to inform these companies and enable them to access the Fund and in a certain way the state itself, the Ministry, the agencies, help companies from smaller municipalities that do not have project development centres, to help companies in applications for these funds. DS MPs will vote for this development fund law. This law gives one legislative regulation necessary for the functioning of the Development Fund. I would refer to the discussion of colleagues from New Serbia, who directly mentioned me and said that as an MP of the ruling coalition, I do not keep silent about the projects of the National Investment Plan and I would like there to be no reason, therefore, that his discussion was a creamworth, that you are allocating funds in this year by looking at the previous, given that in my city, I come from the Kingdom, changed power and that the previous government has not realised 100 million from the National Investment Plan that was defined for the previous year, it should not mean that this year it should receive much less funding. Therefore, it is not necessary for citizens to bear the blame that the previous incompetent government did not know that the funds were used, but were returned to the budget of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-09-0.u17334	The word has a folk MP, Mladen Grujic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-09-0.u17335	The Honorable Chairman, dear colleagues, the Honorable Madam Minister, in principle on this Chamber of Commerce Act, I said what I was thinking this morning. One thing just doesn't make sense to me. I was, unfortunately, away after lunch for two hours and now I'm in and something just happened that I didn't understand in the meantime. DS colleagues disagree with the government's proposal. I missed that a little bit. I was away for two hours, I don't know if anything happened in Serbia's political life in the meantime? If that's what I think it is, it means that the government has brought us together here, paid the logs, paid the expenses to fight here in front of us. So this day is lost. You've proposed a law that doesn't seem to go through this form through the congregation, and you've brought us together here. The basic civil order, what my mom taught me, is that we're not fighting in front of the guests, we're waiting for the guests to leave. Couldn't you have agreed on the government as a human and come out here with one concrete attitude, congratulate each other in the Assembly as agreed, because otherwise I don't understand the concept of position and opposition. So much for this business chamber law. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-09-0.u17336	The breach of the Rules of Procedure is advertised by Mr. Spasojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-09-0.u17337	I'm sorry, can I, I don't want to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure, but we still have a little time left? Finally, I would like to point out that New Serbia's MPs will not support the set of laws ahead of us. We are witnessing today that it was extremely painful here in the congregation hall. It is clear that a group from the ruling coalition also opposed these laws a few days ago, that they had received another ruling coalition, or parliamentary group, if they do not have to and do not want to vote, to leave the government. Apparently, Serbian citizens should see how the ruling coalition works. So at the same time, we have two laws, one that enters into force immediately after the adoption and one law that will take place in four years. It is obvious that the proposer of this law's wish is to create a good lobby through the Development Fund, and then to control the entire Chamber of Commerce of Serbia. – That, gentlemen, is the MPs from the ruling coalition, a message that Serbian citizens should know. At the end of this discussion, I want to look again at that my message to the city from which I come and the current ruling coalition in it is precisely that it is not enough for the King's 67 million in the National Investment Plan. These are extremely small funds, Madam Minister. The city, which has 30-40 thousand displaced persons from all over Yugoslavia, is in trouble, is constantly having problems in the Kingdom. We have an economy that doesn't work, we have infrastructure that needs to be restored urgently. Therefore, I would like to say, who is incompetent in power in the Kingdom, this will be evaluated by the citizens of the Kings in the next election, and will surely appreciate what the government of Vojislav Kostunica and Resor Minister Velimir Ilic did for the King in the previous period. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-09-0.u17338	It's obvious there are no injuries to the Rules of Procedure. The procedure isn't damaged. The word is Mr. Tamash Tot.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-09-0.u17339	The Honorable Presidency, Madam Minister, People's MPs, ladies and gentlemen, is on the agenda today, among other things, and the Bill on the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia. This law regulates the position, way of funding, jobs, management, labour control, supervision and other issues relevant to the work of the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia. The Fund's work is based on the following principles: encouraging balanced regional development, including the development of underdeveloped areas, promoting the business of legal persons and entrepreneurs in the Republic of Serbia, promoting competitiveness and liquidity of the Republic of Serbia's economy, encouraging employment. The Fund performs tasks relating to the granting of loans, the issuing of guarantees, the purchase of securities from values and other works on behalf of and on behalf of the Republic of Serbia, in accordance with the law. The Fund's assets are provided from the Fund's income, the Republic of Serbia's budget and other sources, in accordance with the law. The Fund is a legal follower of the Guarantee Fund and assumes the rights, obligations, objects, means of work and archive, as well as the required number of employees from the Guarantee Fund. The old institution was founded in 1967 and this was established through the joint assets of the economy. He was later transformed several times to experience the most significant transformation during the government of Dr. Zoran Djindjic, in 2001, when he moved from funding a socially inefficient economy to crediting small and medium-sized enterprises to private property. That year, a new leadership was established and the Fund had seen growth as a whole. Today, the Fund is a financial institution whose primary function is crediting private-owned businesses, which sustains itself and increases its placements year after year. This is accompanied by the fact that in 2008, Serbia's economy from the Fund's capital received 12 billion dinars, some 30% of which were placed in Vojvodina's economy at 3% annual interest rates, with a six-year return deadline. The Fund, though state-owned, has placed an additional 65m euros through credit lines of foreign banks on Serbia's economy on very favourable loans, with an interest rate of 4% annually, with a return date of 7 and 8 years. The Fund also performs commissions on jobs for the Republic of Serbia and that "Start App's credits, loans for undeveloped municipalities in our Republic under similar conditions, with a return period of up to six years and an interest rate of only 1% per year. In the period from 2001 to today, the Fund increased its activity by four times and showed that a state-owned institution with interest below market rates could be profitable, as the following data speak – according to the 2008 final account, the Fund earned a billion dinar profit. The cost of the Fund is on average 0.2% of the rent and it is: earnings of 50 employees and operating costs, totalling 35.7 million dinars last year. Fund employees don't have representations, bonuses, business cards, anything like that. All these costs are financed from part of the paid interest on short-term loans. All other interest and annuities are accounted for and re-placed in the economy. This means that the Fund is very efficient, at extremely low costs. The efficiency of business can be compromised by 24th and 25th members of this bill, as the Fund will be burdened with new 34 employees and a debt guarantee fund of 1.7 billion dinars. Additional burdens are also credits with subsidised interest through the government of Serbia's programme of measures to mitigate the effects of the global economic crisis, which will reduce the Fund's budget by five billion dinars. The percentage of loans provided by mortgages is extremely high. With the condition of 31.12.2008, the charge is as much as 90% without notice. Credit for beginners is incredibly 70%, which is almost twice the rate for such a type of credit compared to the countries in the environment. Last year, about 8,000 jobs were opened to loans from the Fund: 1,100 underdeveloped municipalities and 6,700 employees only through loans to beginners last year. There is also an AP Vojvodina Development Fund, which is very successful and efficient in business. From the start of his business in 2002 to today, he has realised 4,100 loans, totaling 15 billion dinars. These loans are designed to finance a long-term programme in the area of economy and agriculture, as well as for short-term financing of craft. Realisation of funded long-term projects has enabled more employees to open more than 20,000 new jobs. Based on the above data, it is clear how much this institution needs our economy, especially during the economic crisis, because thanks to these loans we can reduce unemployment, increase exports and improve living standards. The Democratic Party will support this law and I urge all other parliamentary groups to understand the importance and do the same, as today's greatest patriotism is the creation of new jobs and preservation of existing ones. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-09-0.u17340	Mr. Tot, thank you. Mr. Nenad Popovic has a word. You've got five minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-09-0.u17341	Madam President, commercial chambers have existed in Serbia since the time of Aleksandar Karadjordjevic, 152. Bringing down something that's been going on for 152 years is very easy. That's what this government has and this ministry has proven on the case of the Fiat. They brought down the flag, drove the workers home, promised 700m euros, promised tens of thousands of jobs, and lied to everyone. Composing citizens, composing Kragujevčana, composing the state, etc. The destruction is done by the destroyers, but gentlemen from the Ministry and Government, who, unfortunately, unanimously accepted the proposal, is very difficult to build. You didn't build anything during your term. Just tear it down. Chambers of Commerce are something that can be reformed. The Chamber of Commerce is not ideal, especially the personnel structure is not ideal. It is likely that one essential restructuring in the form of professionalisation of leading places, in the form of delegates across different countries, etc. But that is no reason why something that is a systemic solution in Germany, France, the Netherlands, Greece, is practically in all EU countries and Russia not to do so, to change something that exists in 152 years. I haven't met the businessman for this. They say, "But they want to join together differently." No one's banning businesses today, I'm saying this as a businessman, unlike those in the Ministry who don't have a single business day, Minister, State Secretary, and they found themselves destroying something after 152 years. Today, businesses are allowed, apart from mandatory membership, such as almost all EU countries, to join together and especially, so we have the Association of Foreign Investors, the American Chamber of Commerce, the Serbian Business Club "Privrednik", the Association of Energists of Serbia, etc. Esnafski, sectoral they can team up today. I think these reasons that are stated that the Chamber of Commerce will do more effectively pure stupidity, because this will only start in 2013. Is it today in the Republic of Serbia, where the general liquidity crisis, where jobs are lost every day, where we have a recession that will be much larger in September and October, the biggest problem of the Serbian economy organisations? Here's what the government does. Instead of telling us that it will help the economy, and the businesses have given nothing, we are the only country that has singled out for the economy, but only on paper, 100m euros. They repeat 100m euros, while Croatia, which is twice as small, gave two billion euros. The same government rather than dealing with a fundamental problem, it deals with the organization of the Chamber of Commerce, whether or not it is compulsory membership. Behind this stands, it should be said plainly, only a desire to be mastered by the property of the chambers of commerce. The chambers of commerce have a lot of property. Just to explain to the gentlemen of the government by law that property will belong to the founders of the Chamber of Commerce, it will not belong to the Government. There are no ideas about future mergers at the expense of businesses, about future acquisitions of assets. I have to say, this was all brought in without arguing with the businessmen. No one asked the economy. Here in the congregation benches sits gentlemen of the economy. I talked to them. The Ministry hasn't spoken to anyone. Change something that exists for 150 years, essentially, can only be seen in one broad public debate and this debate lasts for months, if not years, and all the positive and negative experiences of the past must be seen. I must say that it is very strange that, on the one hand, the coalition in power, the government, which says that we are seeking the EU, call themselves pro-European Serbia, or as they are already called, is doing exactly the opposite of what the most developed countries in the chamber system are doing. This isn't a ministry capable, nor has it capacity, economy or any other, that after 152 years, it decides to lift something. This would cause enormous damage, and I think it would take us years, if not decades, to re-establish the chamber system. (President: Time. This is where I end up. I ask the Ministry of the Ministry and the ladies of the Ministry to withdraw this proposal in the interest of the Republic of Serbia and to conduct in the interest of the economy a broad public debate involving the economy of this country, with all the broad spectrum of structures that are interested in the future development of the economy in the Republic of Serbia. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-09-0.u17342	Thank you. The word has Mrs. Minister, Mrs. Kalanovic, please, just sign in.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-09-0.u17343	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I won't answer again, I just want to say two sentences. First of all, my deep belief is that these economic laws that were on the agenda today and that caused this debate in the Assembly are a good indicator, that Serbia is finally dealing with the right things, the things of the economy. As someone who's been working in the economy for a long time, I can tell you that this gives you hope that we've all started to do everyday business for ordinary people. The second topic, which also dominated, related to infrastructure development and the National Investment Plan, was not on the agenda. My associates have carefully recorded your questions, your dilemmas and your possible problems in the realisation of the National Investment Plan, and you will be informed of them in good time, but here today was not the National Investment Plan. On the contrary, they were laws related to the functioning of institutions in the area of economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-09-0.u17344	Thank you. The word is Mrs. Marina Ragush.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-09-0.u17345	Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Minister, that is an additional reason, just to get to the end of your presentation, that Mr Dinkic should be present to explain a set of draft laws that are directly within his jurisdiction. As you yourself had the opportunity to see, what was the subject of the agenda is a set of economic laws that you say should bring certain systemic reforms in this area and, in doing so, mitigate the effects of the financial crisis, if I understand you well, so now I am giving myself the freedom to paraphrasise you. What is startling, but not surprising, is that somehow it is the established practice of the Serbian government, to live in some parallel reality compared to Parliament, and thus also the function of monitoring the work of the relevant ministries can sometimes seem trivial, for the simple reason that if you decide to change the 150-year tradition, there must be a valid good and justifiable reason. You need to convince us that the chamber system has not worked well for 150 years and that, beyond any reasonable doubt, the public in Serbia and MPs accept your argument. We honestly haven't heard. What we had the opportunity to get, as information, is a notice from the chambers of commerce and is a certain set of information we tried to obtain, and among other things, a letter that Mr. Milosavljevic, as Minister of Trade, directed to Mr. Dinkic, proposing to withdraw this bill from the procedure, because he is also not convinced that the chamber system should change in such a way. What is, above all, the most important for the public in Serbia who does not see how the effects of the financial crisis will be overcome, I fear that you have not answered me in the afternoon, is how that the Development Fund has so far not done what it is, in order to pre-warn this where the Serbian public has found itself. For me, they are concrete indicators - the rapper of the government's work and the success of the government's strategy in terms of fulfilling pre-election promises and improving the lives of Serbian citizens. It is also unclear why the pro-European course has given up European examples of the functioning and operation of chamber systems in, conditionally speaking, the most developed countries in Europe. So we can present here a parallel practice from Germany and beyond. It's not clear, and indeed there have been giant tones, that's what the opposition's been talking about all this time, the impression that there are several centres of power within the Serbian government, and that's why such chaos has been said, conditionally, and that's why this situation is both economic and social. The crisis, as a rule, exposes everything. The crisis makes the face and looks like that course that started and that, you'll admit, takes almost nine years. Your party boss, I think, is the author of the book "Economy of Destruction." I honestly expected Mr Dinkic to appear here and answer the essential questions. So, the questions I would ask Mr Dinkic believe are essentially not questions for you, so I hope you will not be angry with the MPs who will ask you the specific questions because they have a mandate to do so and they are bound by what is daily interactive communication with citizens who are behind all of us. It is unclear how the Development Fund as projected and plans to improve the state of business and the economic and social situation in Serbia. To remind you, I like to speak in pictures and examples, and I think it is the easiest way to understand reality in this way and I have to fence myself, I am not an expert in this area, but I am relying on the works of my colleagues, Mr Milorad Buha and Mr Dragan Stevanović, who are not currently in a situation to present this, as well as Mr Dejan Mirovic, who has been doing this for a long time. I hope to present them with dignity. I'll try to avoid, conditionally speaking, professional terms that can only confuse the public and possibly take them on a different path. But it is not clear how the situation is planned to be resolved and to implement what was projected by the Bill on the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia, if it is known that only to finance the current payment deficit of the planned 16.1% of the gross domestic product, therefore, foreign direct investment in 2009 is needed about 1.7 billion euros, an additional net debt of 3.9 billion euros. With about 3.6 billion euros in Serbia in 2009 to finance our excessive spending, loans totalling 7.5 billion euros are needed. What we have a chance to hear and every day actually press-clipping finds us and writing the media with some new surprise, some new attempt to overcome us for days and months without social breakdowns and economic terrible turbulence, just to remind you, Greece exploded because of the terrible crisis. Serbia is in recession. The crisis seems to be getting harder and harder. We don't see how the Development Fund is going to do what it is in his job description, such as. that it should represent a financial credit institution to promote economic development, to provide liquid funds for the restructuring of major economic systems, to prepare for privatisation, to provide funds for the creation of small and medium-sized enterprises, to encourage employment, to develop capital markets, etc. I'm moving on with the examples, so I believe you'll be able to answer that question. It's a transfer to local self-government. Today we learned that the situation is the next, so the total budget of cities and municipalities in 2009 is 40 billion dinars. After reducing transfers to local self-government, the budget will be 25 billion. What has been startled is also one of the measures to mitigate the effects of the financial crisis, and it is obvious that the government does not have a concrete right solution for this situation that we have encountered because it has simply been late with the right plan and programme, so it has decided to reduce the transfer to local self-government by 15 billion. And most of the presidents and mayors of local self-government have repeatedly been embroiled because of an announced reduction in spending from the republican budget by 40%. For example, Kocelev municipality, the budget is 170 million dinars, almost half of which is 83 million dinars. A similar situation is with the Majdanpek municipality, whose budget is 330m dinars, from the Republic's budget comes 160m dinars. Much less from the republican budget gets the city of Leskovac, 56 million dinars. Cities like Cachak and Kruševac, which have large budgets of 2.2 billion dinars, are given 540 million dinars from the republican level. It may be easier for them, but it raises the question of how the budgets of local self-government will manage to ensure the economic and social security of citizens living in their territories. It's not just examples. The total foreign debt almost comes to $30 billion. We talked about the loan with the Bank of the Council of Europe the other day, which should mean about 20m euros in additional debt. We have a transitional agreement that, according to our estimates, loses around 267m euros. Why am I talking about this? These are indicators of the government's relationship, the resolution ministries, all the law packages, so the government's attitude towards solving certain problems in the state of Serbia seems this way. What is an unfathomable language of numbers is that if it were to happen to give up the unilateral application of the Transition Agreement, the authorities could several times increase the budget appropriations foreseen for the Anti-Crisis Programme. If the government gave up the unilateral implementation of the Transition Trade Agreement, let's say, with the EU, a budget deficit of 580m euros would be nearly halved. If the funds lost by applying the Transitional Trade Agreement with the EU were to be channelled towards the economy's subsidies, they could be increased by almost eight times, and if the funds were directed towards the Republic Health Insurance Office, it would have almost seven times more resources. The sum of 267m euros is also higher than the expenditure foreseen for agricultural subsidies of around 212m euros, but also from the sum of around 192m foreseen for the National Employment Service. The budget figures were calculated according to the course of the period when the budget was adopted. Also, the sum of 267m euros is only 17 times lower than the total budget allocation, for example, for child protection. Compared to the budget expenditures and losses produced by this decision on the implementation of the Transition Agreement, the government was able to finance the work, say, of the following institutions: National Assembly, including MPs and professional services, to which about 23m euros go, the Ministry of Kosovo and Metohija, which receives 47m euros, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, including diplomatic consular representations, to which about 67m euros go, the Ministry of Justice, including the Office for the Implementation of Institutional Sanctions, the Directorate for the Management of Disposal of Assets, belonging about 74m euros. So, all these institutions cost Serbia around 211m euros in total, which is about 55m euros less than the loss generated by the unilateral application of the Transition Trade Agreement with the EU. On the other hand, the disastrous decision to unilaterally apply the Transition Trade Agreement with the EU is rarely criticised in the media, given that the extremely strong lobby here is trying to convince us that Europe has no alternative, and with Serbia's standard, we will do it another time. The Ministry of Local Self-Government announces the dismissal of about 8,000 local civil servants over the next four years. We think that this number will be even bigger, the budget transfer that's been halved says that local self-government will have to create a situation to fire, unfortunately, an increasing number of administrators. I ask you, how are you going to solve these people's social and economic problems? What was the Ministry of Local Self-Government projection, is that around 12m euros will be reportedly saved. The figure is more than 20 times smaller than the one we lose unilaterally by applying the Transitional Trade Agreement with the EU. The huge money Serbia gives to the rich EU must be directed towards our poorest citizens, unemployed, to improve health and childcare, to our farmers and to our economy. What is also very important, and it can serve as a picture of these unmistakable numerical indicators, is that Brussels definitely kidnaps 267m euros from our citizens, with the help of a government that really does not know whose interests are being carried out. For these money in this crisis and this recession in Serbia, 60 kindergartens or 50 living rooms could be built for children with secure transportation and new furniture could be obtained for 150 schools, 50 gyms could be built, 22 schools or 90 schools were completed, and 15 new schools could be built. Three new bridges in Belgrade could be built for this money that we have taken from Brussels. So, this is another picture of the very large incompetence shown by the Serbian government, the financial lobby within the Serbian government. It is not clear how the Serbian Development Fund will make domestic economy stand by, in fact, that domestic economy happens in Serbia, when, for example, we have the following examples: in Article 115. The Stabilisation and Association Agreement promises to help Serbia, which includes loans from the European Investment Bank. In this sense, it's really not clear, when such aid is defined, how help can be a loan that is actually a loan with interest to be paid. But as the reforms in the pro-European course appear in practice, the Fund for the Development of Serbia is also concerned, so it is unclear how they will be enforceable. That looks like the next way. For example, Austria's Por, which will at least close to 119m euros, build a bridge on the lower deck of Ade Giganija, had no competition among domestic builders, who were once famous in the world, because these domestic builders did not even participate in the tender. The reason was the strict conditions of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which were known in advance to be insurmountable for domestic operation. The first condition of the IBRD was that the contractor had a turnover of about 200m euros over the last five years. One domestic company that meets this last condition is the Bridge building, because it owns a mechanism for building a bridge on waterways, as is the case with the bridge at Ade Gypsies. In recent years, however, it has not built capital bridges because the state did not have economic power for such a thing. Also, very importantly, it is another example, all major projects, such as roads and bridges, have been assigned to foreign companies, although there is no evidence in practice that they are more capable than our own, but simply the standards set before our companies were too high or still there was free judicial confidence and investors that simply our companies could not meet the standards set before them. A similar situation took place in 2006, so all of these examples help us to believe that the Serbian government has good intentions, or at least one of its serious parts covering financial flows, in restoring the domestic economy, simply because you only meet EU requirements. So in 2006, there was a similar situation with the construction of a new bridge and the reconstruction of an old bridge near Beška in Vienna. Representatives of Serbia's Construction Unions and the Republic of the Border Union "Independence" publicly expressed their dissatisfaction with the fact that this time the Serbian consortium that made up the "Moses", "Planum", "Gosa", MIN, "Ivan Milutinovic", "The Werner", did not get a job building a new bridge at Beska, although independent commissions assessed the offer as the most favourable. The joint Serbian companies have managed to outrun all foreign firms by the quality of the offer, but the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the European Investment Bank has disqualified the domestic consortium because it allegedly does not meet the criteria. The European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, a total job on the recovery and construction of a bridge at Beška worth about 40m euros, imagine how well it would be as an injection for a domestic contractor, how many people would be employed on that occasion, so even the reconstruction of the bridge at Beška did not want to trust Mostogradnji, allegedly because this company had insufficient profits in 2005. So it was openly favored by the second-placed Alpine, even though the company's offer was two million more expensive. By the way, the bridge at Beška in the '70s just built the Bridge. The epilogue was that the contract to resuscitate the existing bridge and build a new bridge at Beška was given to the Alpina and DSD, and one of the subcontractors would be the Bridge. These are concrete examples of how all those of us are trying to borrow money to try to do something in Serbia's territory. In doing so, we see how the domestic economy is systematically destroyed, by setting truly extremely inaccessible and high standards, and even when these standards are met, the free judicial confidence of European investment banks and financial institutions eventually comes down to that – does not meet the standards. Something else that makes the Serbian Radical Party doubt that this proposed set of laws, as you said, Madam Minister, to mitigate the effects of the financial crisis, is also the following fact: we are not to manage the data that we ourselves are coming to, so that we are not respected that these are not real indicators, we have asked your party boss the final question, related to systematic dismissal, so, staying out of work and the possibility of earning about 64,000 people. We have received an official response from the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, and this sector of population development from the country's financial participation in the rescue of surplus employees. Be careful what the Resort Ministry replied: ''Analysis of available data in November last year, the cancellations of the labour contract have been registered or announced, to a greater extent, the consequences, first of all, of establishing surplus employees in social enterprises who are in the process of preparation for privatisation. 'And on this occasion, I would like to hear the information about where the funds went from the privatisation funds, and they were meant to revive the economy. Then we learned that it was formerly large giants, such as: "Viscosis", so there was to be fired 100 workers, "Zlatara''- Majdanpek – 80 workers, "Prahovo-produced fertilizer" – 160 workers, "Iris" from Prepolje – 450 workers, "Raška" – 100 workers. It was announced that 700 workers will be fired by the flag of cars, the "Gosa" - 200 workers, "Shamot" from Arangelovac – 300 workers, "Electroporcelan" from Arangelovac – 259 workers, JAT – 850 workers, on this basis. On the second basis, therefore, the establishment of surplus employees in privatised enterprises, with the aim of liberating new surplus employees, has made a commitment by purchasing contracts to invest in the development programme in the coming years, but not to fire employees during a certain period. For a number of privatised enterprises, a new phase has been under way to look at the optimal number of employees, so there has been a crisis. And then the information looked like this: "Zravlje" Leskovac – 194 workers, "Rubin" Kruševac – 63 workers, "Plima" Pek – 200 workers, "The End of Wine" – 270 workers, oil "Sun" – 700 workers. On the third basis – sending employees on a forced holiday, mainly in private companies and companies where there is no possibility of the workers being declared a surplus, these are: "Zender" Vranje – 720 workers. There, through the "Siepe", the state provided grants for the Grindfield investments and the National Employment Service has provided grants for training employees. But I have to remind you, while training and training staff, these employees have to feed their families. So they can't do that from course and retraining. On the fourth basis of the termination of work based on the cancellation of the contract of work at a certain time and work through the youth cooperative, they made "Belir" from Kikinda with 130 workers, "Svilion" from Vrsac – 100 workers "Vratal" Vrbas – 230 workers, "Ju-es style" from Smedereva – 400 workers, "Dunavka" from Velika Gradište for 125 workers. The establishment of surplus employees in the dedicated industry and the termination of the work of income institutions within the Army and on the basis of the establishment of surplus employees and the payment of severance allowances under the Vojsca Act, according to this basis, stopped working in the company "Milan Blagojevic" from Lucana for 170, in the "Remont Office" from the Cačka for 360 workers, in the company "Cer" from Čačka for 150 workers. According to the National Employment Service, in October of last year, the largest number of employees was fired on the basis of the expiry of a fixed time contract – 32,018 workers. A significant number of terminations of employment under an agreement between an employee and an employer have been recorded on the employee's initiative, around 16,000. – Termination of working relationship based on technological, economic or organisational changes in employers – 1,760 workers. – Termination of employment due to failure of work results for 603 workers. – At the same time, according to the National Employment Service in October 2008, around 64,033 workers were out of work on these various grounds. To this day, and we have tried several times to get a plan and a programme in which the Serbian government thinks to meet these people. We did not get that, nor did we have the opportunity to find out what financial institutions are, how the government's management team will find additional funds to mitigate such a blow, conditionally said, of financial crisis to the state of Serbia. So what we most recently expected to hear today is real information and real image scans in Serbia. In Serbia, over half a million people live below the poverty line. Not only are these people who are mostly our members, so we have a commitment to over a million and 220 thousand people, we express concern for all of Serbia. In Serbia, what according to all this data is now a real projection, there will be no family that will not be touched by this accident. And to tell you the truth, after all these indicators, we really need to have the courage to defend something that Mr Dinkic should have done, and it is a Fund for the Development of Serbia. Speaking of something that also paints the full alienation of the Serbian government and of life, and especially of Parliament, is exactly the information I am looking at in front of me, the Ministry of Trade and Services, sent to your party boss, Mr Dinkic. We were even aware of the conflict between Mr Milosavljevic and Dinkic on the draft law on amendments to the Chamber Law. But what the public in Serbia needs to know is, according to Mr Milosavljevic, under the provisions of Articles 2, 5 and 7 and within the meaning of Articles 8, 10 and 11, then, the draft law is essentially a single legislative intervention and this is a change in the existing legal regime of the organisation, a single chamber system that is in force in accordance with the applicable regulations. As Mr Milosavljevic says, the proposal for a legal solution that completely changes the existing chamber system model, since the concept of a single chamber system is defined in Article 1 of the applicable 2001 Chamber of Commerce Act, which regulates the concept of economic chambers as independent and business professional organisations, is therefore defined as part of the unique integration of business entities. In order not to read this in detail, recalling the 150-year tradition, what was proposed by Dr Slobodan Milosavljevic was then to withdraw the draft of this law from the procedure, because there was simply no analysis of the effects of the law, which, according to the Government's Rules of Procedure, was required to be delivered, on the basis of Article 40(2). We can only determine the error of procedure here, but it's very debateable why the tradition of something that exists 150 years without public debate changes. We are not hiding, the intention of the SRS is that we are just having a public discussion about all the draft laws, which the government is obviously avoiding to do, with professional and qualified people, in front of the Serbian public here and now. We'd like to hear how you think the Development Fund will do what it is to be its basic activity with all the indicators that I've put before you. I think it's an obligation for the entire government to go to the public and say there is no concrete solution to the crisis that will have the greatest impact between May and October of this year. We all remain here, and this is a picture of Parliament and interest in the situation in Serbia, and I am glad to see it now on the screen from 250 MPs who are people who really care about the well-being of citizens, who are people whose pre-election promises were so strong and strong and eventually tried to convince that Europe has no alternative and that this Europe will bring a better life in Serbia. We have just proven that this union in one recognizable way and for all other countries, Serbia is not an exception, sucking up what is a national income and a country's gross domestic product, with all the other prerogatives of one state. We have seen that this union has no intention of solving the crisis of any country. The other day, we mentioned an example of Mrs. Merkel and her relationship, for example. According to the Opel. What we can project, too, is that the fate of the EU will be very uncertain, for the simple reason, because a neoliberal system has fallen, as you have seen, Madam Minister. He fell by the irresponsible behavior of the strongest financial centres of power. That, apparently, only in Serbia is not clear yet. The next stage in resolving the financial crisis is the closure of the domestic economy and the domestic legislation of the strongest countries in Europe. And there's the future of the EU. We are in a position to prepare and rush with laws without public debate, with the government being split within certain drafts of the law. It's a complete mess being created in Parliament, being in public. In doing so, none of these laws even coincide with reality in Serbia, offers any concrete solution in Serbia that is under the protectorate, none of the proposed laws will apply in the KIM territory. We're playing some kind of virtual reality here. And worst of all, none of these laws will improve life in Serbia. None of these proposed legal solutions are enforceable, simply, there are no material and technical advantages to this. What a certain part of the government has shown, firstly one that controls financial flows, is that they care more about the EU than the lives of people in Serbia. There you are denied, Madam Minister. The fact that you said that you are glad to be talking today in Parliament about the ordinary life of people in Serbia, it absolutely does not stand. If you were pleased, we wouldn't be talking about such a set of economic laws today. We wouldn't change 150 years of tradition because of internal conflicts in some lobbies. And that's the only truth. – If you were pleased, you would already have several government sessions and our managers in certain public enterprises would not have millions of dollars, and if you really cared about these citizens, you would have come before us who are trying to introduce them here and you would say, Serbia is in a difficult crisis, the solution lies in that and that. You don't have a solution for that. If you see a solution in the new elections, you better say it right now, so that the citizens of Serbia know it's only political chairs and political ambitions and nothing else. It is the message that comes from the session daily, no matter how much the regime and the regime media have tried to cloud it, from the ministers who come here and who represent laws that will not be implemented in Serbia, and above all, you are introducing us into this living mud. None of these laws will help people survive this and for the next three years. And we, then, need to go out in front of those people and say, what? I'm sorry, we didn't make it! We failed, Madam Minister, because the media is closing and this is not to be talked about and because the opposition is being satanized so that this is not to be talked about. And that's the only truth.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-09-0.u17346	Mrs. Ragush, I have the impression that you've brought an end to one of the whole of the exposure. And we have information that direct transmission of RTS won't be from 17.55 p.m. I suggest we continue our work on April 14th, 2009, at 10:00 p.m. Also, allow me, honourable Members of the people, to congratulate, in your name and in your name, all believers who celebrate the Easter holidays on the Gregorian calendar, on the greatest Christian holiday of the Easter, and may the holidays be your salvation and spiritual age. Thank you.
