ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30430	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam President, I have a question for the Minister of State Administration and the local self-government of Mr Markovic and also a question for Mr Ivica Dacic's interior minister. The private company Šumadija Put d.o.o. from Ripnja deals with low-building activities. On 9 November 2009, Miodrag Bata Ivanovic, director and owner of the company, asked the council of MZ Ripanj to grant him the asphalting, free of charge, total free of charge, 13 local travel directions in MZ Ripanj. The application was filed under number 205/09 on 11 November 2009. On 12 November 2009, the Council of MZ Ripanj made a unanimous decision, approved and agreed with the company "Shumadi Put" d.o.o. from Ripnja to make a 13-way pavement of its cost in Ripnje. The decision was taken unanimously by members of the Council of the MZ Ripanj, of which are Zoran Zivanovic, Dobrosav Milanovic, Slavoljub Isailovic and Momir Kalajdzic of the DSS, Vladan Drobnjak of the DS, Radoslav Matic of the Serbian Movement of Forces and Milan Zivojinovic of the SPS. All these facts so far deserve every commendation for showing concern for their place, their municipality, their neighbors and fellow citizens. Work on paved the streets in question began on 14 November 2009, in order for complications and pressures to begin on the same day. Namely, I own and contribute with these questions the statement by Mr Miodrag Bate Milanovic, who owns the company "Shumadi Put", which says: "On 14 November 2009 in Ripenj Mr. Bjelic called me and reminded me that I am not qualified for works in the city of Belgrade past the tender and that I am not allowed to work. I told him Ceraprom and Built-in can work for money, and I can't do it for free for my village. He told me that I was disqualified for the work in the city, which I replied to him that I've had nothing to do since you were in power. He added the phone to Mr. Gilas, the mayor of Belgrade, who impugned my mother without introduction, called me a thief and threatened to arrest me, and I didn't owe him either. This happened at 12:45, in front of numerous witnesses, and the call was number 063390390." We also have witness statements that will confirm the threats of Mr. Belic and Mr. Dragan Gilas. However, this trauma continues. I also own Mr. Zoran Zivanovic's statement... Madam President, I believe our colleagues from the DS are not interested, and it's likely they already know all this, but please, if you can, calm them down and don't include me in time these few seconds. I also have a statement by the president of the council of MZ Ripanj, Mr. Zoran Zivanovic, saying: "The Ripanj local community has received donations from the Šumadija road company to do several streets in Ripanj, among them a market and a centre. At 12:45, I was called because Belgrade Mayor Dragan Gilas suspended works at the market. I came and culturally introduced myself and asked Mr. Gilas what was the problem. He asked us who was doing the work, and what I answered was that it was MZ Ripanj's market and that the company was doing it. The next question is anyone paying for it, which I answered was a donation. Mr. Gilas is starting to... And to call me a thief in front of all the citizens. He also threatened to arrest us, which I replied that I had not been arrested for such things in the age of Slobodan Milosevic. Mr. Gilas's curse came again, as I and Mr. Alexander Vukic will j... A thief's mother. By calling me a thief, he said we were buying votes from the citizens of Ripnja, which I replied they were doing the same. “ The President: Time. ) I will finish with one sentence directed to Mr Milan Markovic – how long will the haughtiness of Dragan Gilas and the use of all possible things in the election campaign be tolerated? Also, to Mr. Ivica Dacic – does Dragan Gilas arrest Serbia, can he... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30431	Mr Babiću, I ask you and all the other MPs to use the appropriate terms and associations that may arise from your statements in this House, and for the sake of the reputation of home, the highest legislative home and the body of our country. Mr. Dragan Todorovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30432	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam President, I urge you to put up your authority and that the questions that we ask are not only empty work Members, but that you really do your job as President of the Assembly and do your best to get answers to the questions that have already been asked first. There is a year and something about me asking a question about the assets of the Alliance of Communists of Yugoslavia, the Socialist Union of the Workers' Union, the Socialist Youth, etc. Because the Party Financing Act makes the assets available and the use of political parties in the amount of 50%. Also, I remind you, Madam President, that according to that law, every recording of the property I have listed forward is in vain. Here, there's been no answer for over a year. I'm afraid, Mrs Dejanovic, that these "yellows" may not have possessed all that property and used it, and that those who are legally entitled, these are other parliamentary parties, cannot use that property. I know that there are about 300 objects that fall under this law, so we in the SRS had to slowly start collecting documents, or information about whose hands this property was in. But I think the Serbia Property Directorate would finally have to respond and deliver to the Serbian Radical Foreigner, taxed, data on the complete property that these institutions had and, in accordance with the law, made it possible for parliamentary parties to benefit from this property. I'm expressing concern that there's a possibility that in the meantime this property is alienated from those who are currently using it, so I'd really like to ask you to finally get that information. A second question would be asked to the government of the Republic of Serbia, or to the Prime Minister, and this is about "the port of Belgrade". This is more because of the citizens of Belgrade, because this issue has been discussed in the Belgrade City Assembly, but everything has been done to cover the matter up, so that the citizens of Belgrade do not have the right information. It is the re-purpose of the "Luke Belgrade" land, a change in the urban plan. We have now come to the situation that all that the Serbian Radical Party claimed, that "Luka Belgrade" will be used to make at least two people and probably another group around them enormously rich... Just to remind you that "Luka Belgrade" is privatised under the Law on its own transformation, that on 13 September 2005, the Securities Commission approved the offer of an investor at the price of 800 dinars per share and that the investor owned 93.52% of shares. It's Miskovic and Milan Beko. You know that Luke was bought for about 50m euros. However, at a property fair in Cannes on 10 and 12 March, Dragan Gilas presented the project "The City of Water" in the area of "Luke Belgrade". So it was already pre-planned what would be done – two and a half million squares of living space will be built. If you only take that one square in Belgrade is 2,000 euros, it is five billion euros. Here's how you "yellow" rob Serbia and rob Serbian citizens. Dragan Djilas, a "great brother", has allowed Miskovic and Bek to take five billion euros for space in the "Luke" territory by changing the urban plan, which will be sold. That's what you've been doing since you came to power. I ask the government of the Republic of Serbia to review all these "Luka Belgrade" affairs and to do everything to prevent this robbery of state property.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30433	Thank you. Does anyone else want a word in accordance with Article 235? No, I don't. ) I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by MPs: Mladen Grujic, Đuro Peric, Milica Radovic and Milos Radulovic. According to Article 88(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, in addition to the representative of Proposer Snezana Malovic, Minister of Justice, I called for the session to be attended by Slobodan Homen, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice and Jovan Ćosic, head of Justice. We move to the 1st item of the agenda – I have informed Ms. Minister that she should be here about 10.30 hours, counting on us to use a more intense member of 235, so please give me a few minutes off until she arrives... Yes, the Minister is worth more than we've evaluated. Here you go, Mrs. Malovic. We move on to the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Regulation of Courts. You have received amendments submitted under the bill by the MPs of the People's Republic of Rade and Gordana Pop-Lazic. You have received a report from the Committee on Justice and Administration and the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The People's MP, the Prophet of Radet, submitted to the 2nd Amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Mrs. Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30434	Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Malovic, Article 2. The proposal for this law refers to Article 20 of the Basic Law on the Regulation of Courts. We have intervened in an amendment because we think that there was no need for this law to change at all, given that the existing law already stated that judicial actions are taken every working day, and that actions that do not endure delays and in the days when the court does not work. I don’t know why you needed to write “in time, ” since it already stands“ in the days when the court does not work, ” I guess that’s understood. In the second point, you said: “The rules of procedure determine the judicial actions taken at the time and the days when the court does not work. “ This is completely unnecessary. On the contrary, this matter cannot be left to the Registrar for mercy and mercy, so to speak, but must be perfectly regulated by law. In the light of this amendment, the Code of Criminal Procedure, which regulates it, and you will agree that it is. But you said that the amendment is not accepted because there are, not only in criminal matters, but also in some other, actions to be taken and at a time when the court does not work regularly. It is true that one such procedure, for example, is an election procedure, but it is not left to the Rules of Procedure, but is also regulated by a law that regulates the electoral procedure, where courts are said to be acting within 48 hours. So, simply, both this and these other laws that we're talking about today (and we talked about the other day) are actually, I would say, the order is because you're trying to hide the current reality in the Serbian judiciary by some group of laws. Again, as you did a few months ago, you let Mr. Homen's secretary of state say in the media that the judges were elected, that 500 judges had already been out of work, and then a spokesman comes out and says that's not true. Unfortunately, that's obviously true, because it turns out that when you send Mr. Homen to talk to the public, that's something that really happened. And, please tell us that Mr. Homen, who is not a member of the High Council of the Judiciary, knows that judges are elected, how does he know that 500 judges are out of a job? Question for you, Mrs. Malović – a year you've been here since we discussed your so-called reforms, claimed before the MPs and citizens of Serbia, that the reform would show its results as early as January 1st. You moved your deadline the other day. You said you expected a normal functioning of the courts from March. So, the agony that's been going on for almost a year after your announcement continues until March, and we're telling you, unfortunately, a lot longer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30435	One minute and fifty seconds were spent from the time of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by Parliament of People Gordana Pop-Lazic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed the examination of the Bill's proposal in particular, does the Proposer's representative wish to give the final statement under Article 144. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 2nd item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the Law on Judges (single) You have received amendments submitted by MPs Sreto Perić and Mirko Munjic to the bill of law. You have received a report from the Committee on Justice and Administration and the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, opening a search of the draft law in particular. National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30436	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the whole draft law supplementing the Law on Judges, with both members, the government shows an unprofessional and incorrect attitude towards the citizens of Serbia. Madam Minister, you are looking at me – how and in what way unprofessional. Well, in the course of last year, to be exact, at the end of December of the month, we passed the Law on Judges. In the course of this year, we had amendments and additions to this law; you knew back then that in our judicial system there would be law on the judicial academy and you are not in Article 30. The Law on Judges could provide for that exception to Article 1. It is precisely defined that the judge cannot be in office in law enforcement bodies, in executive authorities, in public services, in the authorities of the province's autonomy and in the units of local self-government. Now, by amending and supplementing this law, you suggest that judges may be members of the judicial academy's governing body. We in the SRS believe that judges cannot be members of the managing authority of the judicial academy, and I have therefore proposed, on behalf of the SRS, that Article 1 of this proposal of the law be deleted and that no exception be made in relation to Article 30. The law on judges. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30437	Excuse me, MP, are you done? You're done. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's Messenger Mirko Munjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30438	Madam Minister, in December of last year, when you adopted these laws in the field of justice, you said that these laws would in some way circle this area of justice, by resolving in one comprehensive way all the issues that are relevant to this area. We are witnessing that this is not the case, but only after a year after the adoption of these laws. That tells us something, which is that you, in your ministry, don't make laws for them to last. You do not bring them in order to last, in a comprehensive way, to really address all relevant issues, in order to set one legal practice by means of a longer period of time so that those who apply the laws and those to whom these laws apply have legal certainty. But what's there is, it's not just in your ministry, it happens in other ministries. I suggested that Article 2 be deleted, since this is the logical consequence of the amendments that we have submitted to Article 1. So Article 2 says that this law takes effect on the eighth day of its publication. Normally, you refused. The judge may be in office in bodies which adopt regulations and enforcement authorities, then, in public services, as well as in services, or cannot be in these bodies, as well as in the services and organisations of the Autonomous Province and units of local self-government. However, it may be on election committees. Here some circumstances are qualified, characteristics, such as: expertise, therefore, are graduates with a passed judicial exam; this is their daily participation in interpreting legal rules and making decisions; it is their alleged impartiality and independence because it is understood, both by the Constitution and by the law, that they are independent in performing their functions, and it is understood that they are impartial. But is it all like that? I say it isn't, and many examples of practice will prove it during today's debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30439	It's been used 30 seconds since the MP's group's time. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed the examination of the Bill's proposal in particular, does the Proposer's representative want to give the final statement? No, I don't. ) In that case, I conclude the examination of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of the Law on Public Prosecution (specificities) You have received amendments submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic and Aleksandar Martinović to the bill of law. You have received a report from the Justice and Administration Committee and the Government's opinion on the amendments. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed a search of the Bill's proposal in particular whether the Proposer's representative wants a final word, as referred to in Article 144. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly? No, I don't. ) In this case, I conclude the examination of the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office, in particular. After we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in detail, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 4th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Organization and Jurisdiction of State Organs in the War Crimes Procedure (specificities) You have received amendments submitted by Members of Parliaments: Petar Jojic, Zoran Krasic, Gordana Pop-Lazic, Verica Radeta, Milorad Buha, Aleksandar Martinović, Dejan Mirović, Sreto Perić and Boris Alexic. You have received a report from the Committee on Justice and Administration and the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. The word is "Veriza Radeta".
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30440	Article 1 The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Organisation and Jurisdiction of State Authorities in the War Crimes Procedure should be deleted, and that is the position of the SRS, because through this amendment we are actually expressing our view that there should be no special court at all, no special prosecution. The position of the Serbian Radical Party, known from the establishment of the party, is that courts should judge only as regular courts, that we do not need any "specials", that such courts are actually turned into state bodies, that they become toys in the hands of the executive authority. Unfortunately, in practice it turned out that we were absolutely right. The fact that this law, which you passed in 2003, suffers, here, the fifth amendment, this is the fifth amendment of this law, says that neither the ruling coalition, or DOS, was prepared to do something like this, because when a serious job like this is done, when something that has worked out for years and decades from the ground, and it has worked quite well in the state of Serbia, then it has to be done in a way that it takes years and decades, and not that you yourself who have passed this law... Of course, Mrs Malovic, I don't mean you personally, I mean the representatives of the government, the representatives of the DOS, who have been trying to revolutionally change something in the judiciary since 2000, unfortunately, every change is a step backwards.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30441	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Gordana Pop-Lazic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30442	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS estimates that it is quite logical to submit an amendment to Article 4. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Organisation and Jurisdiction of State Authorities in the War Crimes Procedure. We presented our position last year and our principles regarding the organisation of a judicial system in Serbia. Of course Mrs. Malovic disagreed. She bears great responsibility for such an attempt to reform the judiciary. No, you are not exclusively; since 2000, as Ms. Verica Radeta has already pointed out, DOS parties have been trying in an entirely inappropriate way to reform the judiciary. This is what not only the MPs of the SRS show you, but also the fellow judges, who, you must admit, the largest number of them, know that they are doing an excellent job and apply the positive regulations relating to the area in which they operate. You said that, besides the war crimes prosecutor, in Article 4. The bill, relating to Article 7 of the basic law, should also be added to the war crimes detection service. So, the war crimes investigation service. We believe that there should be a single general system of justice and there is no place for a special prosecutor for war crimes, and even less service to detect war crimes. We believe that the prosecution is required, and has competences in accordance with the applicable positive rules, to issue certain orders to all authorities in Serbia, namely to seek their participation, to assist in the processing of certain cases. We therefore propose that the amendment be made to Article 4. The bill is accepted because it proposes that the member be deleted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30443	Anyone else want a word? If not, MP Aleksandar Martinovic has submitted to Article 6 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was tabled by the People's Parliament of the Verse of Radeta. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from the Verse of Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30444	Thank you. Article 6 The proposal for this law refers to Article 10, it seems to me, the basic law, is, by which you delete a member of the 10th existing law and add a new member where you say, among other things, that in the Supreme Court in Belgrade, criminal acts in Article 2 of this Law are being handled by the Department of War Crimes. The work of the Court of Justice shall be managed by the President of the Office of the Court of Justice, etc. If we didn't have a negative view of the existence of this law and this kind of functioning of the judiciary, we wouldn't have any objections because this is in line with the laws that should have been in force since 1 January, or maybe since 1 March, as you said the other day. Something that really bothers this Article 10 is that "exceptionally from the provisions of the Law on Judges, the High Council of the Court may refer the judge from the second court to work at the Department of the Great Court, in time of six years, with his written consent. During the deployment, that is to say, references to the Higher Court Department are preferred by judges who have the necessary expertise and experience in the field of international humanitarian law and human rights. “ Mrs Malovic, you insult all judges in Serbia with this article. Do you think in Serbia judges do not know the area of international humanitarian law, especially human rights? That's really amazing. What are your criteria? You said it in an explanation – it has to be because they need to know it. What are the criteria, unless this is the attitude of Natasha Kandic on a particular judge? You are turning your head, and the whole of Serbia knows, it is a public secret, that Natasa Kandic manages both the Special Prosecutor's Office and the Special Court of War Crimes, that she appears there, although she is not a lawyer, to appear as a representative, that she dictates judgments etc. You have now legalized the existence of Natasha Kandic and the Humanitarian Law Fund, which is doing its utmost to work against Serbia and the interests of the Serb people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30445	Thirty seconds has been used since the parliamentary group's time. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Dejan Mirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30446	The amendment was submitted as part of our criticism of our judiciary's tribunal. We feel that the argument needs to be pointed to the following facts. Of course, you will make an argument that there are international obligations on our country and that there is a need to co-operate with The Hague tribunal, because it is an ad hoc court of the United Nations. On the other hand, the question is raised and we think it is a key question – what if that court violates human rights? What if the court violates the European Convention on Human Rights, more specifically Article 6 of the Convention, which regulates a fair trial? If you choose between the so-called the international obligations and respect for human rights and the Convention adopted in 1950, then it is perfectly logical that you protect your citizens, especially those in the detention of The Hague tribunal. In that sense, I will only give you one example: you have Judge Meron, who in the case of Vojislav Seselj made over 20 negative decisions and only one positive. On the other hand, when he was a member of the appeal council in the case of Oric, he reached a liberating verdict. That's scandalous! It's a classic example of double standards. That's why we're against respecting such a court and such judges.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30447	Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 10 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Ms. Verica Radet. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from the Verse of Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30448	You have added to Article 11, a new member here called Article 13a, and you have predicted that "the war crimes prosecutor may suggest that as a witness an associate be questioned by a member of the armed formation, a state body or a political organisation, against whom a criminal offence is being prosecuted under Article 2 of this Act. “ These are, most clearly, crimes for war crimes. We have suggested that this be deleted because we believe that these crimes for war crimes should not be treated differently from other crimes prescribed in the Criminal Code, as is prescribed in these crimes. They can't be treated against the Criminal Code. You have responded very interestingly that "an amendment is not accepted for a reason" – this is the case for you each time, it is obvious that you have carefully examined this, so you have a mistake like this – "which is in all order to give the possibility to apply the new Institute of Guilt Agreement and in the proceedings for the crimes of war crimes, without restrictions on the Code of Criminal Procedure". First of all, in this explanation you didn't respond to the explanation of the amendments I submitted, because you said this in such a way that I don't think anyone living can understand what you wanted to say. But what were we going to say? What counterpart Mirovic said -- the SRS absolutely opposes the tribunalisation of the Serbian judiciary. Unfortunately, the tribunal has been at work for years. You are making the most profitable profession in Serbia, not only when it comes to war crimes, but when it comes to any crime. We could spend all the time at our disposal, related to these laws, telling you what you've done with your fellow witnesses, that is, how the witnesses pass, how you keep them, how they continue to do, about what they've done before, just now in a different way. Of course, this time I don't mean war crimes, but since this law applies to it, I have to tell you that even in this Special Department of War Crimes, the verdicts were made on the basis of false witness statements from the associates. These judgments were disproved by a higher court, for example, the Vukovar case, or "Ovcara", where the higher court found that... The procedure is still pending and as a lawyer, I know that I should not comment on it, but what is a fact when these first-degree verdicts and second-degree court rulings were at stake, there were co-workers there who were crucial, no other evidence for that group of people, and the witnesses from the co-workers in their statements say they had personally participated. One of them has a nickname "Bloody." So, the Witnesses themselves admitted to committing war crimes, and on the basis of their statements some other people were convicted. This is what the SRS opposes, you gather such witnesses and help The Hague tribunal and take them to The Hague, or take them to The Hague to testify. They testify against the interests of the Serbian state, you know it well. The best example of an associate witness, but who, thank God, were absolutely defeated, were witnesses who appeared in the case against Professor Vojislav Seselj. Now because of such witnesses, who did not have and cannot have any evidence that Vojislav Seselj committed any crime, because, because of such witnesses, the prosecution doesn't know what to do, there are no new witnesses, there are five hours, he still doesn't use them. Such negative things from The Hague are being transferred to the judiciary and released by people who have committed war crimes, because they will serve you for use, or because they will falsely accuse someone who has nothing to do with some war crime, and as someone who has committed this crime, they will be a citizen who will be guarded by the police of the Serbian state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30449	Two minutes and 55 seconds used the time of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment was submitted by Parliament of the People Gordana Pop-Lazic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 13th of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30450	A good Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure absolutely solve all problems related to perpetrators and their processing, however, you are trying to be more Catholic than the Pope. We do not dispute that, but we will always oppose your legal proposals with our expert opinion and our principles, which the Serbian Radical Party has established since its establishment. On that basis, it is logical that we have submitted the amendment to Article 14. Proposal for a law where Articles 14b and 14v are added. You see, counterpart Mirovic spoke of an attempt to tribunalise the justice system in Serbia. We have a far more drastic situation here than the one that governs the UN tribunal itself. See what Article 14v says: “The time spent in custody before the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia is not included in the length of the detention procedure laid down in the domestic court in accordance with the provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure. “ It really doesn’t make sense, at all, to deliver such a proposal to children in primary school, let alone to MPs who are willing to read your suggestions. Article 14v says - if the defendant, or the suspect, does not take the defendant himself, the President of the Court will appoint him as an official attorney in the order of lawyers who meet certain conditions, so here you have said ten years in the area of criminal law, etc. Here you are literally trying to rewrite the provisions in force in The Hague. I suppose, Madam Minister, that you will not, perhaps, defile the judicial system in Serbia; there was one minister before you who suggested that in Serbia, our legislation be imposed a death penalty that would last one day or 15 minutes, it seems to me, directed exclusively against political insinuators, not those who are perpetrators, or perpetrators of a crime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30451	Anyone else want a word? If not, MP Zoran Krasic submitted to Article 17 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 18 of the amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. The word has a People's MP... Excuse me. So in the debate on the amendment to Article 18, no one wants to participate. The 19th amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic, who wants a word. The word is by MP Dejan Mirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30452	As part of the story of the tribunalization of our judiciary and the perception of negative examples, instead of positive, it is not clear to us in the SRS why you do not look up to yourself, for example. the so-called The Roman court, which passed the Roman Statute. It is known that even the European Union has adopted a declaration supporting the principles of the statute and the regulations as a kind of codification of international law. There is nothing disputed, it is a permanent court and in this sense I see no reason why you did not see yourself, for example, in that court supported by the vast majority of UN members. As for the so-called so-called. The Hague tribunal, I would like to point out another example that shows these negative anomalies in the work of this so-called so-called so-called "supervised". The tribunal, which is an example of Croatian journalist Domagoj Margetic, who published a list of protected witnesses, in particular 102 protected witnesses, including Croatian President Stipe Mesic. He published in his newspaper that it was a list of Hague secret witnesses and allegedly sent it to him by Carla del Ponte. For such a violation, more specifically the contempt of the court, he was sentenced to three months. On the other hand, Vojislav Seselj, who did not publish the name of any protected witness and who published a book containing documents accepted by the court council, was sentenced to 15 months in prison. This is another example of double standards, a negative example of one work that is not to be seen and to be condemned. After all, you know that Carla del Ponte published a book in which she openly admits that until the beginning of her term she didn't even know that Republika Srpska existed, she didn't use English, she didn't know the basic things about the former Yugoslavia, except what she read in the paper, so it's scandalous that our judiciary sees that kind of work both of those people and lawyers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30453	Anyone else want a word? If not, the People's MP Milorad Buh has submitted to Article 20 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed the examination of the Bill's proposal in particular, does the Proposer's representative wish to give the final word, based on Article 144. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly? No, I don't. ) Since we have carried out a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 5th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Organization and Jurisdiction of State Organs for the Fight against Higher Technology Crime (Statistics) You have received amendments submitted by MPs Petar Jojic, Mirko Munjic, Sreto Perić, Zoran Krasić and Boris Alexic, as well as the amendment of the Committee on Justice and Administration. You have received a report from the Committee on Justice and Administration and the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's Messenger Mirko Munjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30454	I submitted an amendment to Article 2 where I asked for the words "full freedom" to be added to the words "trafficking people, child pornography". Article 2 provides that this law is to be applied for the detection, prosecution and prosecution of: 1) criminal acts against the security of computer data specified by the Criminal Code, 2) criminal acts against intellectual property, property, business and legal traffic in which computers, computer systems, computer networks and computer data appear as objects or means of execution, as well as their products in material or electronic form, provided that the number of copyright copies exceeds 2,000 or material damages resulting from a million dinars, 3) criminal acts against freedoms and rights of man and citizen, full freedom, full freedom, public order and constitutional order and security of the Republic of Serbia, which, due to the manner of execution or use of funds, can be regarded as criminal acts of high-tech crime, in accordance with Article 2(1) of this Act. “ I asked for the words “trafficking of people and child pornography ” to be added to point 3 of this Article 2. I've been looking for this because the SRS thinks that the crimes of human trafficking and the crimes of child pornography are crimes that have been in a huge expansion lately. These are crimes that can be found in the ranks of those crimes that may be most committed or at least among the five crimes that have a really high degree of execution lately. That's why we've been asking for the decidation of this law to predict both the crimes of trafficking in human beings and child pornography. Of course, the government has not accepted this amendment of mine. In his explanation, he says that the child pornography crime is contained in the head of the Criminal Code relating to crimes against semi-freedom, which already provides for the jurisdiction of specialised state authorities to combat high-tech crime, in accordance with Article 2. It's a bill of law. However, I have requested that this be a criminal offence, and the crime of human trafficking. The government did not refer to this act of human trafficking, although I believe this is also one of the crimes committed to a significant extent. We are all witnesses of how our police and police countries in the environment at our and other state borders prevented the perpetrators of these crimes from committing such and similar crimes. For this very reason, we felt that human trafficking was one of the crimes that was necessary in the provision of members of this law. The government didn't accept that. I think it's a big mistake and we should accept this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30455	Thank you. A minute and 40 seconds have been used by the MPs' group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30456	We have submitted an amendment to Article 2 and with regard to Article 3 of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Organisation and Jurisdiction of State Authorities to Combat High-Technological Crime. We are aware and familiar with the fact that Serbia does not have a large number of judges who are placed in the jurisdiction of certain courts, the conduct of these crimes, and here we wanted to help, to contribute to the conclusion of this law, to be applicable. Article 3 states: “This law applies to the detection, prosecution and trial of: 1) criminal acts against the security of computer data determined by the Criminal Code... “ It’s just a matter of time before I go home. ” Our intervention with this amendment refers to Article 3(2): “criminal acts against intellectual property, property, business and legal traffic, where computers, computer systems, computer networks and computer data, as well as their products in material or electronic form, if the number of copies of copyrights exceeds 2,000, ” is the bill, “or material damage exceeds a million dinars. ” We have proposed an amendment to say, "if the number of copyright copies passes 500." That is the situation we had in the current law. I would ask you, Madam Minister, after my explanation, if you are in a situation, to state what motivated you to try to change this member. We believe that such a proposal as our amendment would protect a greater number of those affected by the application of this law. Or: “... a material damage exceeding a million dinars; we proposed that this amount be 500,000. We believe that in this way a greater number of people would be protected, or those who exercise certain rights according to these inventions, a greater number than in the proposal for this law. In this way, we would show all future perpetrators that we will resolutely oppose the execution of such crimes. Because we know that this is something that occurred in a later period, these are not crimes that date back, I don't even know how many years, but they're part of a newer date. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30457	Thirty seconds has been used since the parliamentary group's time. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Committee on Justice and Administration, pursuant to Article 142(2). Rules of Procedure, the amendment was submitted to Article 5, which was adopted by the proposing representative at the meeting of the Committee. The Legislative Committee has not spoken out, so this amendment will be declared by the National Assembly, as well as by others, in the voting day. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed the examination of the Bill's proposal in particular, does the Proposer's representative want to give the final statement? No, I don't. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 6th point of the agenda – PROPOSAL OF THE LAW ON THE COURT AKADEMYA (individual) You have received amendments submitted on the bill by the MPs: Tomislav Nikolic, Jorgovanka Tabaković, Zoran Antic, Veroljub Arsić, Zoran Babić, Jelena Budimirović, Božidar Delić, Stefan Zankov, Oto Kišmarton, Milan Knezevic, Saša Maksimović, Zoran Mašić, Predrag Mijatović, Ljiljana Miladinović, Borisa Peljević, Mileta Pošurić, Gojko Radić, Mićo Rogović, Vučeta Tošković, Dragan Čolić, Dragan Žalić, Mirić, Vjerica Radetina Radetin Radović, Radovan Spasović, Srđan Spasović, Dusan Marić, Dusan Marić, Boražan Marić, Borisa Šrjana Žalić and Mirjana Švić, Mirjana, Mirić, Mirić, Mirić, Mirić, Mirić and Mirjana, Mirjana, Mirić, Mirić, Mirjanić and Mirić. You have received a report from the Committee on Justice and Administration and the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. National MP Jorvanka Tabakovic withdrew her signature from the amendment, which, along with MPs Jelena Budimirovic and Zoran Antic, submitted to Article 45. It's a bill of law. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we move on to a review of the bill in particular. Under the name of the amendment law, a group of 20 MPs from the Prosperity Group submitted to Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Jorvanka Tabaković.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30458	Thank you. On the occasion of this first amendment, I will use the right to in principle place objections to this debate in particular, giving some of our general objections in the way this law has been done. First of all, I would ask the Assembly that the Rules of Procedure we have are respected, in terms of the jurisdiction of the Legislative and Constitutional Committee. Why do I say that? A large number of our amendments have observed that some of the provisions of this law are unconstitutional; this should not have been done, according to the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, by the Legislative Committee, which is competent to determine the compliance of the legal system and the law with the Constitution, in the way it should have been done. The remark on the government's side that the Secretariat of Law was supposed to do that is something that shouldn't be, that we have a similar responsibility. The government didn't do it in her part of the job, and the Assembly didn't do it in her part of the job. What should not be a practice in the future is that we do not have a statement of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, which, under Article 44, is responsible for this kind of principled consideration of the application of the Constitution in certain legal provisions. What I'm saying right now doesn't apply to Article 1, which I'm going to explain, but in principle it concerns the key things that define this law. To illustrate this, I'm just going to mention a 40th member who largely illustrates the Horniness of a legal-technical, crafty part of the lawmaking business. For example, this 40th member has some eleven provisions, and three of them are directly unconstitutional. So, Article 40, which prescribes the obligation of the High Council of the Judiciary and the State Council of Prosecutors to propose first and foremost those candidates who have completed their basic training, which is disagreement with the Constitution. You (this illustrates the government's relationship) in response to our remarks in your reasoning that it is indeed proposed that candidates be those who completed this training, but that they only have an advantage over other candidates, which you say does not take away the right to propose. Mrs. Malovic, what can other candidates replace that advantage that you give to those candidates who have completed training? How can they reach it, undo it, reach that number of undefined points? They have nothing to reach her. It's an inaccessible advantage. You say there is no question about the right to propose to others. We're serious people, you're a very intelligent woman, you can't bring the right to propose to the same level with the right choice. No, you do not dispute the right to propose, but those candidates who do not have this advantage that you define unconstitutionally with Article 40, points 8, 9 and 11. What I'm talking about is inconclusive. For hours you can claim something else, but the Serbian language, the Constitution and the law as defined here do not allow you to prove me right. It is not my aim to show that you are right, I am right or someone third; the law that is passed in this building is in accordance with the Constitution and to enable what we all stand for – equal chances for all. This law does not largely make it impossible, but rather puts a certain category of persons, those who complete initial training and a judicial academy in a privileged position. That's not allowed. The fact that you haven't adopted any amendments to our parliamentary group doesn't concern us at all. It is our goal to show the difference of approach, but here we do not argue about different ways of solving the same problem; we cannot argue whether or not we will respect the Constitution. Is it acceptable that today, for example, we have a problem applying the Public Information Act? Is it lawful to have a problem with the application of the law on the confiscation of property arising from a criminal offence, to apply more provisions of the Criminal Code for which the legal team of SNS and legal professionals claim that sooner or later the European Court of Justice or the Constitutional Court will put you in a position to amend the provisions of this law? The Constitutional Court has received much broader jurisdiction. He's got a lot of work to do. Let's not give him every law, almost every law that's been passed here, because they won't be able to achieve what you're imposing on them. Basically, what's in the laws that we're getting here is, in fact, a crisis of division of power. We have evidence of that in legal solutions that come here, regardless of which area they regulate. The executive government, the government, is trying to put directly and indirectly under its wing everything that is not in its direct jurisdiction. It's not a general remark, it's the most difficult remark that can be put on this bill and it's quite consistently implemented through all its mechanisms. What you failed to respect is your damage, and I'm afraid this law really won't be able to withstand a more serious review of the higher findings, and it certainly will be. Article 1 in an inadmissible way defines this institution, which is an institution, but, as the transitional and final provisions say, it will actually operate under the Law on Public Agencys, so it is very happy with the right to call the Justice Agency, like all others, others, for which we know how independent they are and how they work in the interests of citizens. It is unacceptable for you, by the term "legal academy", to characterise something that is not an institution that is neither in its organisational form, nor in its legal status, nor in your own activity. They repeat what is stated in the principle debate – that it simply leads to the delusion of third parties in legal traffic, because, as a public institution, according to the Business Society Act, in Article 17(2), it has to be called to speak about itself, which it deals with, what powers it has and what third parties can expect. This is a name that is suitable for art, high military and similar schools, and it is really not good to call it something like this that tends to be an academy, and it only deals with the training of civil servants, without the right to give any level of education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30459	Six minutes and 65 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) A group of twenty MPs of the Progress Serbia Group submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30460	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the respected citizens of Serbia, this amendment refers to eradicating the work of Article 1 of this bill, which refers to training of the holders of judicial functions. The training of legal holders, public prosecutors and judicial and prosecutorial assistants has already been fully regulated by the Law on the Training of Judges, Public Prosecutors, Deputy Prosecutors and Prosecutors, the Law on Judges, the Law on Public Prosecutors, the Law on Regulating Courts, the Law on the High Council of the Judiciary, the Law on Courts, the Law on the Regulation of the Courts, the Law on Ministry. Those laws fully lay down the procedure, bodies and criteria for selecting users of training, the rights and obligations of users of training, the authorities responsible for determining the training programme, the duration of training for certain categories of users, the procedures and reasons for compulsory training, the costs and the organisation of training and all other training elements of those categories. The draft law on the judicial academy is partly trying to regulate the specified matter, where it regulates almost all competences, character, content and duration of training, categories of users and their rights and obligations, introducing new categories of users, new rights and obligations both for the users and for state authorities and officials, where all provisions are in conflict with those laws and some with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The proposal also contains a provision on the termination of the importance of the Law on the Training of Judges, Public Prosecutors, Deputy Prosecutors and Judges and Prosecutors, but remains the problem of collapsing with all other laws and the Constitution, which will partially prevent and create unresolved problems in the application of these and other listed laws. The proposal quite unnecessaryly sees some of the rules that so far do not change the process of proposing and electing judges and prosecutors and which amends and derogates the Constitution and the law of established jurisdiction of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, the State Council of Prosecutors, the Government and the National Assembly. This proposal also introduces categories of users of training that are not contained in the disputed provision of Article 1, nor in any other law governing the judicial system, thus creating a conflict within the law itself. For this reason and for all these reasons, I propose that the proposed amendment be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30461	Thirty minutes have been used since the parliamentary group's time. I ask that correction be entered into the stenogram, as well as others who measure the time spent at the session, that six minutes and 45 seconds used by MP Jorgenka Tabakovic was used as deputy president of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by a group of twenty MPs of the Prosperity Group of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30462	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, Article 2 refers to the goal of establishing the Academy. What is given in the text of the law, according to us, are some general principles, which can apply to general objectives, to a complete judicial system. It is quite incorrect that the basic goal of the academy is professionalism, independence, impartiality, to ensure these principles. This is what is the goal of all of us; it is ultimately in the National Strategy for Justice Reform; it is provided primarily through the Constitution, through the rule of law and social justice, through laws governing the organisation of judicial authorities. The main objective of this law on the Judicial Academy is the factical training – the training of judges, the training of prosecutors, the training of staff working in courts, in prosecutors. I think that this finding in the law itself is given in a very inappropriate way and too ambitious and that it is in fact not responding to that basic goal. The goal, therefore, is to train, not to provide some general principles, which we all advocate when it comes to Serbia's judiciary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30463	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was tabled by the People's Parliament of the Verse of Radet. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from the Verse of Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30464	The amendment to Article 2 has been accepted, Mrs. Komic, so I am informed, but well, it is not a waste to comment on it, with pleasure. Article 2 speaks of the aim of establishing the Academy. The aim of the establishment of the academy, the government said in its proposal, is to ensure professional, independent, impartial and effective performance of the judicial and prosecutorial functions and professional and effective performance of the affairs of judicial and prosecutorial staff. The amendment we have made is somewhat different, but it is essentially different, and it is good that the government has accepted this amendment. Our amendment, i.e. Article 2, now that it has been accepted by the government, is "the aim of establishing the academy is to contribute", so the government said - to ensure, and we say - that it contributes, "professional, independent, impartial and effective exercise of judicial and prosecutorial functions and professional and effective conduct of affairs of judicial and prosecutorial staff. “ Why have we endured this amendment, and why have we made the difference between “security ” and“ contribution ”? Because it is impossible, the Judicial Academy, with the powers given to it by this law or by any other jurisdiction, cannot provide either professionally, independently, impartially and efficiently performing judicial and public prosecutorial functions, but, of course, it can contribute to that. That's the essence of our amendment. The Judicial Academy, therefore, can only contribute to the achievement of this goal, which is still, unfortunately, only the goal, but it itself cannot achieve the ancient democratic ideal of an independent judiciary, independent of the executive authority or, worse still, from day-to-day politics. Today, unfortunately, in Serbia, we have many examples... And not only today, the fact is that the judiciary has never been independent, but the peak of dependence between the judicial authorities and the executive authorities has happened and is happening in the last nine years. It's something that's a fact, something that... Ask any citizen, ask anyone, here, I have as many examples as you want of how the judicial authorities work, which people deliver to us from the field. Of course, we always stress that in Serbia most judges and most prosecutors do their job in accordance with the law and do it as best they know and can. But there is one fear, one fear that these judges will now be out of a job. Turn your head, Mrs. Malovic, but you did not respond to what your deputy, State Secretary Homen, said. He says you've chosen judges. He says – we chose, not a member of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, but only a member of the Democratic Party, formerly a member of the "Resistance"; these are people who choose judges and prosecutors. You know, I guess he's a responsible man. He shouldn't be making a public statement like that if it wasn't true. He said, Mrs. Malovic, that 500 judges today are out of work, only no one has told them yet. He said, your deputy. That's why I asked you that question, expecting you to answer. Of course, it is your right to answer or not to answer, it is your right to record all our remarks and to address us when we have finished this debate in detail. It's just, in such a case, when the minister does so, then we MPs are a little disabled, then of the goodwill of the chairman depends on whether we can replicate you again, so if you didn't understand something, that we understand each other, to explain ourselves, that we have contact, but that's absolutely your right. It's a good thing you accepted this amendment. It would be good if you accepted all amendments from the Serbian Radical Party. Mrs. Comic, I don't know what's funny about that. I can illustrate to you as many examples as you like how many times we've intervened on some law, the amendments have been rejected, with some unforgivable explanations, and after only a few months we've received proposals for amendments and additions to those same laws in which the provisions that we Serbian did to our amendments have been incorporated. They were alive and saw, and this law will experience the same fate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30465	Three minutes and twenty seconds were used from the time of the parliamentary group. The amendment is in the procedure and the applicant of the amendment has the right to speak because the Legislative Committee has not spoken, but in the voting day, the Assembly will decide. The amendment shall cease to be the subject of the debate in particular only if the parent committee, the Legislative Committee and the Proposer, whoever you are, have the right to speak, and I must ask if you wish to speak. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Đuro Peric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 3rd amendment was filed by a group of twenty MPs of the Progress Serbia Group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Dusan Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30466	Ladies and gentlemen, with this bill, the government has proposed that the seat of the Judicial Academy be in Belgrade. On behalf of the SRS, I suggested that the headquarters of the Academy be in Kragujevac. We have been witnessing that for decades, and in particular this has been expressed in recent years, there has been a trend in Serbia of "belogradation". Under the powers it has, and especially by the financial resources available to it and by the institutions in it, Belgrade is increasingly state-owned. I think we all agree that it's one adverse phenomenon that needs to be stopped. The phenomenon has a large and permanent migration of the population, especially from Serbia's border areas, towards Belgrade, especially when it comes to young and professional people. This, on the other hand, has the current situation, which is that we have several hundred villages in the interior of Serbia and Serbian border areas, better said former villages, in which there are now no residents. According to data I collected a few days ago, preparing to discuss the census law, there are more than 50,000 abandoned houses and households in Serbia. On the other hand, there are at least a few tens of thousands of homeless in Belgrade. We have been hearing for several years, especially in pre-election campaigns, from top state officials and top officials of leading political parties, that if they win the elections, the state will take concrete measures to dispel Belgrade's huge concentration of government, huge concentrations of institutions and huge concentration of money, however, there is nothing in practice. I think this is a truly symbolic opportunity for the government to show that this commitment that its ministers have made in the election campaign is not just a day-to-day, pre-election campaign, but rather a real commitment in some general social interest, and that is why I propose that this amendment be accepted. I would like to hear from Mrs. Malovic a logical explanation why the seat of the Judicial Academy must be in Belgrade. What, for example, wouldn't it be in Kragujevac? In an explanation of why the amendment was rejected, the government said: "The government does not accept the amendment. The bill provides for the head office of the Judiciary Academy to be in Belgrade," which is why I have suggested that it be changed, "for reasons of economicity, since in the capital are the seats of the highest judicial institutions and the highest number of courts and public prosecutors. “ The government has already denied itself in the following sentence of reason and says: “In addition, the statute of the Judicial Academy provides for the education of organisational units outside the headquarters of the academy. “ I don’t see why it’s uneconomy for the seat to be in Kragujevac, in itself, but it’s economical that, let’s say, the Judicial Academy assumes that there are five or six other district units, which would in any case add up this project. Finally, I draw attention once again to the fact that it is the headquarters of all major judicial and other institutions in Belgrade. I think that practice should be stopped, and for Kragujevac I decided for the following reasons: first, it is located in the centre of Serbia, it is equally remote from all parts of Serbia, so that the reason for economics would be satisfied; the second reason is that Kragujevac was the seat of the Serbian parliament and the third reason is that Kragujevac is one of the largest centres in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30467	Two minutes have been used since the parliamentary group's time. The People's MPs Srdjan Spasojevic and Aleksandra Ilic submitted the 3rd amendment together. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Srdjan Spasojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30468	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honored Chairman and Honorable Ministers, counterpart Maric practically submitted the same amendment as New Serbia. In this part, I'd only be attached to a few things. The point is to decentralise the authorities and in the area of the judicial system. The amendment is that the seat of the appeals courts should be in Belgrade, Novi Sad, Nis and Kragujevac; I would now not bid in any of these cities where appeals courts are scheduled. Of course, through this amendment we express our desire and request that the seats be in one of these cities. We are witnessing these days that, Madam Minister, practically, only through funds of public information, that Serbia's Constitutional Court will move to Sremski Karlovci, Vojvodina. If this is an effort to decentralise the judicial system, then there is no reason, if it is the seat of the Cassation Court in Belgrade, that some of these two cities in central Serbia, Nis or Kragujevac will not be the headquarters of the Judicial Academy. I think it's absolutely unacceptable that this is being solved through the statutes of the academy. I think it should be resolved through a legal proposal, because whenever something is left to be resolved through the statutes, it can be one way or the other, whether that statute will be accepted as such or not... There's no reason for one of these serious issues to be solved by some sublegal acts, as I said, through the statutes. If there is a real desire to decentralise the authorities, and I think I have made enough arguments, we have the seat of the Casation Court in Belgrade, probably the Constitutional Court in Vojvodina, Novi Sad, or Sremski Karlovci, and if this is going towards a tradition, then I think it was necessary to accept the arguments of colleagues Maric and mine, and this amendment was absolutely to be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30469	Fifty seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by Parliamentarian Radovan Radovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 5th amendment was submitted by a group of twenty MPs of the Progress Serbia Group. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a national emissary Jelena Budimirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30470	Thank you. Dear citizens of Serbia, my colleagues and I, on behalf of the Prosperity Group, submitted an amendment to Article 5, and proposed that Article 5 be amended so that it reads: "The institution performs the work of training and professional training of judges, judicial interns, judicial assistants, public prosecutors, deputy public prosecutors, prosecutors and assistant public prosecutors, in accordance with the law. “ Article 5. The proposal lists a number of non-legislative jobs that regulate training and professional training of judicial and judicial institutions for which the institution is established. Since institutions are established only to ensure the exercise of the rights laid down by law and the exercise of the law of established interest, as set out in Article 3. Public services laws, non-legislative transactions cannot be an activity of the institution, nor can this law lay down in a different way the rights and obligations of the users of training, or establish new categories of users, in particular for the reasons that the law establishes that training and professional training are financed from the budget, as the jurisdiction of the Republic, within the meaning of Article 92. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. My colleagues and I felt that it was especially necessary to point out the unacceptableness and legal inadmissibility of certain of these matters. For example, point 1, which reads – organizes and conducts the entrance exam for initial training. The establishment cannot carry out the entrance exam and select the users, as training users are determined by the competent judicial authorities, in accordance with the law. Point 2 – issues publications and performs other publishing work. It is not possible to carry out publishing activities because it is a specific economic activity which companies registered for this activity are engaged in and fulfil the conditions laid down by law, including the conditions laid down in the Public Information Act. It is also a similar situation with the issue of brochures, so these commercial transactions are incompatible with training operations of legal holders. Point 3 - performs research-analytical activities and deals with scientific work. These activities may, under the law, be dealt with by institutes and higher education institutions, which meet the requirements laid down by law regarding professional staff, equipment, space and others, so that this institution cannot deal with those tasks. In addition to these needs, the issue of financial affairs must be added. In addition, there is no need, as this is already being done by existing law schools and institutions financed from the budget. The last point of Article 5 states that the institution is also carrying out other tasks established by the Statute, which is legally not possible. Article 13(3) of the Public Service Act stipulates that the activity of the institution is determined by an act of establishment, which is the law in this case, so that the activity cannot be extended by the statute adopted by the Management Board. Otherwise, he could change the laws with his own decision. The Statute of the institution shall determine only an internal organisation in an act which is not laid down by law or by an act establishing it. By giving the board of directors the opportunity to expand its activity beyond the one for which the institution was established, particularly commercial, it is seriously risked that the basic activity should be neglected and the material basis threatened by business risks, as well as that the institution should be brought into business and business relationships that would undermine independence and the reputation of the judiciary. Let's just say, if someone gets the benefit or suffers damage in a business with a controversial businessman, who is later prosecuted for economic crime, then the subject of the investigation becomes a judicial academy.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30471	A minute and 50 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. Anyone else want a word? If not, National MPs Natasa Vukkovic and Nenad Konstantinovic together submitted to Article 5 of the amendment. This amendment was accepted by the Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration, but the Legislative Committee did not, so the National Assembly will declare itself on it in the voting day. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Sreto Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30472	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Serbian Radical Party has tabled an amendment to Article 6. The draft law on the Judicial Academy and the amendment reads that the member is changing. This is about the organs of the academy. According to the draft law, the authorities of the academy are the following: board of directors, directors and programme councils. The Serbian Radical Party proposes that all of this be retained and added -- the supervisory board. I'm absolutely sure Mrs. Secretary supports this amendment of ours. There is no reason, neither practical nor theoretical, that this amendment is not accepted and that besides these three organs, which we believe should exist, not add another one, and that is very important. Our great desire is for the profession to dominate certain things. Here, to accept the condition that without a judicial academy there will be no good judges, but our desire is to protect their resources on behalf of Serbian citizens, therefore, to control the spending of money in the existence and operation of the Judiciary Academy. The government’s very interesting argument is that an amendment to the SRS is not accepted, says: “Amendment is not accepted in view of the existence of the Supervisory Board as the authorities of the Judicial Academy for reasons why the supervision of the lawfulness of the work of the Academy is carried out by the Ministry of Justice. “ Over some legality, supervision is directly carried out, let’s say, by the minister of police, who can betray, and even by the minister of justice to do the job, he can issue a warrant for detention, so that there may be abuses again, and there will be no abuse in the judicial academy. She won't be here just because she's being watched directly by the Justice Department. The reasons that you gave, or which the government gave in the explanation, are detailed, thin, unacceptable, not drinking water. It's impossible there's no board of directors and there's nothing wrong with the law school's business. In addition, you add, supervision of the financial operations of the Academy is carried out by the State Auditing Institution. And other beneficiaries of budgetary resources can be supervised by the State Auditing Institution, both the budgetary inspection and other inspections, but the abuses in practice are numerous. So, if there weren't, so as not to happen, the SRS suggests there's another one besides these three bodies of the academy, which is the Supervisory Board. I am absolutely sure, unless you accept this amendment now, that you or some other minister of justice will go out here to the MPs and say – we have noticed that there are certain irregularities in the business of the Judiciary Academy and therefore we believe that, in addition to the existing authorities, there is also a monitoring committee to be introduced. We had such an argument during the debate in principle regarding the laws on the restriction of the number of employees in the republican authorities of the administration, as well as in the local administration. One of the ministers said -- well, no one's said... Since the year 2000, workers have been accepted, mostly by party belongings, and suddenly one minister came up to say – no one before me has suggested that such laws be passed and that the number of employees be limited, but, behold, we now want to provide better quality services to citizens. It's pointless, it's insulting the intelligence of not the MPs, but the citizens of Serbia. Therefore, in order to avoid one inconvenience, if you are a minister after a few months, when you propose to introduce another judicial academy body in addition to the existing authorities, you can resolve the problem by accepting this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30473	Two minutes and fifteen seconds used from the time of the parliamentary group. The 6th Amendment was submitted by a group of 20 MPs of the Progress Serbia Group. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30474	Article 6, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, refers to the authorities of the Academy. What does not stand and is not acceptable in all of this law is that the Law on Public Services is put into another plan and that the Law on the Judicial Academy is placed in the balance of some system law, which gives itself the right to put the Law on Public Services in another plan. As far as Article 6 is concerned, the authorities may be the board of directors and directors, but the programme council, in the opinion of the SNS, cannot be the authority of the administration. One more thing has been done here – the board of directors appoints a program advice, which, according to us, is also inadmissible. We also have a law on public works which clearly defines the bodies, authorities of the administration – board of directors, directors and supervisory board. Eventually, instead of a programming council in this member, the Supervisory Board could stand; this way we would not have a conflict between the two councils. As far as the Programme Council itself is concerned, I think that, in relation to its activity and role in the Law on the Judicial Academy, it is this factical professional body, and this expert body should be found in the statute, to regulate the way in which the programme council is elected. Once again, I will express the dissatisfaction of the Serbian Progressive Party, as far as this law is concerned, with the proposal, which the Law on Public Services has put into play; it is system law for us, and with that law all other laws must be harmonised, not above that law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30475	Anyone else want a word? The 7th amendment was submitted by a group of 20 MPs of the Progress Serbia Group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Government has submitted to Article 7 of the amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration accepted the amendment, but the Legislative Committee did not deliver an opinion, and the National Assembly will also declare itself on this amendment in the day of the vote. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Spasojevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Srdjan Spasojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30476	As we have heard, the Government has submitted an amendment similar to this amendment of mine to Article 7 and, as we can see, the Legislative Committee has not spoken out. The amendment that I and the amendment submitted by the government are very similar, the fundamental difference is that the government's proposal suggests three members. I think it's a large number of members that the government is proposing, as a carrier of the executive government. New Serbia's proposal and it's mine for the government to propose one member. The fundamental difference is that my amendment, New Serbia's amendment, predicts that the government cannot propose someone in the order of state secretaries, or deputy ministers, but rather the order of ministerial assistants. Recital of this amendment: "The Management Board of the Academy plays a decisive role in the supervision and organisation of the work of the Academy itself. The composition of the Management Board is not good and does not guarantee that it will fully comply with the requirements set out before it. The Academy must be deprived of any political influence on work and control in order to truly be an effective and meaningful institution. The proposed amendment does not foresee the possibility for the secretary of state to be on this board of directors, but rather for the assistant minister, because the secretary of state is a changing function, unlike the assistant minister, for whom it is intended to be a permanent function because they will be elected in the contest. “ I see no reason why this amendment is not accepted. By leaving the minister, the secretary of state; if we want some continuity in the work of the academy, I think it is entirely consistent for the assistant minister to be the one in that academy to represent something constantly. I don't think there was any reason for you not to accept this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30477	It's been used 30 seconds since the MP's group's time. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Both the Government and the Justice and Administration Committee accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee didn't. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment will be declared by the National Assembly. The government has submitted to Article 8 of the amendment. Both the Government and the Justice and Administration Committee accepted this amendment. We do not have a legislative report, so this amendment will also be declared by the National Assembly in the voting day. The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 9th Amendment was submitted by a group of twenty MPs of the Prosperity Group of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Otto Kishmarton.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30478	We have submitted an amendment to Article 9. It explains that the competences of the Management Board in Article 9 of the proposal have been established in a way that does not correspond to the competences that can be established under this law in most part. It introduces new types of training and obligations that do not exist in laws governing the organisation of justice and the position of employees, which is not legally possible because it is not subject to regulation of this law. In addition, competences are unclearly defined, so there is confusion over the interpretation of terms, especially often mentioned: "indulgence", "indication", as well as the type of training. The Management Board is also authorised to adopt rules on the admission exam, although candidates are designated by the competent judicial authority, so the institution implementing the decision cannot be authorised to make the choice of candidates. The procedure under training programmes is in collegiate with laws governing the work of judicial authorities and the position of judicial holders and employees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30479	National MP Dejan Mirovic submitted to the 9th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Spasojevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Srdjan Spasojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30480	In the discussion, in principle, the basic objection to the draft law concerned the introduction of an admission exam. On Article 9(1), we have submitted an amendment to change the word "confirmation" to the word "confirmation", and the sentence "brings a programme of admission exams for judicial and prosecutorial trainees" is deleted. The explanation of this amendment is that it is much more precise in a specific case that the word "confirms" stands. With regard to the introduction of the admission exam, it is totally unacceptable and humiliating that candidates who have graduated from law school and passed the judicial exam re-trial for the academy. In connection with the forward, it is unacceptable that when someone passes an entrance exam for the academy, they have a working relationship. In my opinion, it's contrary to the Labour Act, and I think it's against the constitution. So the bottom line is that it's totally unacceptable to pass the entrance exam this way. What is further completely unrelated is that when someone passes the entrance exam, Madam Minister, he starts a working relationship. It's something that's absolutely inexplicable. I don't know who could have put it in the bill to build a working relationship that way. I believe that in this part of the bill there is much that is against the constitution, so I am sure that this issue will also be addressed by the Constitutional Court. I'm sure we'll file an initiative to assess the constitutionality of this law, this particular piece. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30481	The 10th amendment was submitted by a group of 20 MPs from the Progress Serbia Group. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's Messenger Zoran Antić, and the People's Messenger Milan Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30482	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, another member in which we have a collapsing law on the Judicial Academy with the Law on Public Services; another member who, in our opinion, proves that this law itself is very confusing and unclear and that it will be very difficult to apply in practice, that it completely disregards the application of other laws, which means that it appears, in some way, as some kind of lex specialist in relation to our legislation. So, according to the Law on Public Services, we have a clear procedure that in all institutions whose founder is the Government determines the Government; there is no possibility of a different definition of another law, the Law on Public Services must be respected. Also, with regard to the discharge of the chairman of the board of directors, it should, in our opinion, be regulated in the second part of this article by the statute, and remains very little of the matter to be regulated by it. Because, as I said, this law regulated a lot of things that were unnecessary and that the job of some other accompanying documents, acts, and statutes, and on the other hand, in some parts went too wide, too wide and gave himself the right to put many other institutes in another plan.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30483	On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure, the amendment to Article 10, was submitted by the Committee on Justice and Administration. The amendment was adopted by the proposer's representative, and the Legislative Committee did not declare itself, and the National Assembly will also declare the amendment in the voting day. The 11th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Spasojevic. Both the Government and the Justice and Administration Committee accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee didn't. The amendment will be declared by the National Assembly. The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Aleksandra Ilic and Milutin Jelic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 13 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 13 of the amendment was tabled by the People's Parliament of the Verse of Radet. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from the Verse of Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30484	Article 13. The bill talks about the director of the academy. The following point is added: ‘The Director is the Executive Authority of the Academy’. The amendment that I have made, I will explain later, has been accepted, but it is not quite clear why the amendment of counterpart Aleksandr Martinovic, who has proposed that attitude 1 be changed and that the director is the management body of the academy. The government’s reasoning is that the Director only executes the tasks of the Management Board and says: “Amendment is not accepted for the reason that the Director’s primary responsibility is to execute the decisions of the Management Board and the Programme Council, so it is, accordingly, a provision of Article 13(1). The proposal for a law is more precise." It remains unclear who is the management body of the academy, if it is not the director, and it cannot be anyone but the director, so we are not satisfied with the fact that this amendment has not been accepted, given that the government has accepted quite a number of amendments from the SRS MPs. It is obvious that all our amendments are very professional, in one part and legal-technically, and that through these amendments we have extremely well-intentioned that this text of the law, when adopted, should indeed be a good law, a serious law, because the subject is also extremely serious. It would be bad if you hadn't accepted, let's say, the amendment I filed, because the law on the judicial academy applies exclusively to lawyers, and it wouldn't have been good to get the lawyers to use the law with some nomotechnical and legal-technical errors, such as the one that was corrected by the amendment that I filed on behalf of the SRS, which refers to Article 2 where you said that "the director of the academy is elected for a period of five years, with the possibility of re-election". We thought it best to say "with the possibility of reelection", and the government accepted it. This is certainly good because of the law itself, because of the fact that this law will read and apply exclusively by lawyers; to those who are in front of that judicial academy tomorrow would probably be uncomfortable if they saw such bad formulations in the law. When I spoke earlier about the state of justice and how much you from the executive authority contributed to such a bad state, I said that we often get written by citizens, to call us, to speak to us because they are used to SRS MPs here speaking really on behalf of the citizens who chose them, in fact, on behalf of all citizens. Now one question from Mr. Alexa Suvac of Vienna, who addressed the application; he said he wrote to various state institutions, but, behold, this morning he addressed the Serbian Radical Party, our parliamentary group. He says that in 1995 he left "Trudnik" because he had not received a salary for a year and a half, that "Trudnik" remained in debt to him for 18 salaries, that he received a dispute with "Trudnik" in 1997 at the Third Municipal Court. From 1997 to the day of today (November 2009), Mr. Alexa Suwaiac cannot get the money. He's got an executive ruling from the Fourth District Court, but every time he gets an explanation he doesn't have any money. Such examples suggest that there are some people in the judiciary who do not do their job in accordance with the law, who do not feel that the law is the same for all and that they are all the same before the law, because the representative of the "Trudents" during that period obviously had some influence over this gentleman who remained deprived of 18 earned salaries at the time. I set this example primarily for the public, and to you, Mrs Malovic, as a member of the High Council of the judiciary. Unless it's true what Mr. Homen said, that they or you, he put himself there because he said "we chose judges", if it's not true what he said, that you chose judges and that he knows which 500 judges are out of work today, but he still doesn't know he's out of work, that you take care of cases like this. The dignity of performing a judicial function is examined, so it should be, most of all, in the fact that the judge judges by law, not by law, that the judge applies the same law to everyone, that they are all equal before the law. Do not be crucial and fundamental in selecting these future judges as party belongings. Don't, Mrs. Malovic, receive and read letters from the DS Municipal Committees. There'll be an opportunity, we'll talk about it. Unfortunately, this choice of judges (known to the judges, from the judges and we get the information) will, in the most part, be accompanied by party belongings, belonging to the Democratic Party, which is in power today. It is not good for you either, as Minister, because one day it will be said otherwise; it is not good for the courts; it is not good for the justice system in Serbia; it is not good for the citizens of Serbia. Serbian citizens expect something epic from all your announcements that have been going on for a year. Mrs. Malovic, you should make sure that everything you say in public isn't just for you and that the citizens hear it, that the citizens comment on it, that the judges, the prosecutors hear it, that they also comment on it, and that they expect that you will really do this choice by some criteria that are objective. I claim that this is very difficult, given the very composition of the High Council of the judiciary, because the composition of the High Council of the judiciary is absolutely party, and you know it. You are not only a member of the Democratic Party, and Bosko Ristic is from the Democratic Party, the president of the Supreme Court is the woman of the regime, because that's why she got the post, it's also a public secret. The citizens of Serbia really don't expect anything good, believe me; they don't really hope, but they really don't hope for anything good from what you call justice reform. It's probably not too late, or maybe it is, if Slobodan Homen is right that judges are already elected and 500 judges are out of work, and they don't know who; you know, but these judges don't know. If that is not true, if you are still working on it, Mrs Malovic, accept our well-intentioned objections not only to this law, not only to these laws, but to our remarks concerning what you call judicial reform. We claim there will be chaos in the judiciary and we've been telling you that for a year. Believe that most of the people in the judiciary tell us that we're right, because they know a lot more. People are in this business and know how to be threatened and how to draw attention to how to judge, to whom to judge, whose subject to stand in a drawer, whose case may be carried out and should be removed from the drawer, and all of it from the executive authority and all of it and from your associates, Mrs Malovic. Serious things happen in the Serbian judiciary. You may intimately believe that what you're doing is good; we're telling you it's very, very bad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30485	It's been used eight minutes since the parliamentary group's time. Anyone else want a word? MP Srdjan Milivojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30486	Mrs. Malovic, the Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, listening to these discussions where people from the "Resistance" and Slobodan Homen, the State Secretary, are very often apostrophe and call on the people of the "Resistance" and Slobodan Homen, the State Secretary, I must give you strong support in efforts to reform justice in Serbia, because Serbia's citizens somehow bear poverty, but they do not bear injustice at all. The court proceedings in this country are, unfortunately, longer than the Spanish series, and you know how many episodes Spanish series have, Serbian citizens. I must really support you and tell you that it is good to do justice reform, to strongly support this reform, because it is really necessary to get an effective judiciary that will be in the service of citizens and above all in the service of justice and justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30487	It's been used 45 seconds since the parliamentary group's time. Right on the line, the People's Parliament of the Witch of the Rade. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30488	Thank you. Mr Milivojevic is right in this discussion. He actually confirmed what I said. I don't know who Mr. Milivojevic complains about when he talks about how long court disputes last. Mr. Milivojevic's party has been in power for nine years. The judges are unfortunately under the influence of the party for nine years. Once again, I will mention to Mr. Alex Suvac, whose letter I hold in my hand, in favour of Mr. Milivojevic's discussion. It is true, Col. Milivojevic, here you can see – Mr. Suvavac had a legitimate solution in 1997 and an attempt to execute this solution, as it stands here, has been going on, about, since then, nine years. Of course, you will say – you were in power at the time, from 1998, from March to 2000. That's true, and let's say we're responsible for Mr. Suvayac's not getting that money in those two years, but who's responsible for not getting it nine years after that? So, Mr Milivojevic, we support the fact that you have recently supported our efforts for better justice in Serbia, for an independent judiciary in Serbia. Thank you for that. However, I don't know why you answered on behalf of "Resistance", unless because of the fact that you know that what your "resistance" colleague Mr. Homen said three or four days ago in the media. Do you know that judges have already been elected, that 500 judges today are out of a job without people knowing? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30489	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) If not, the People's MPs Aleksandra Ilic and Srdjan Spasojevic submitted together to Article 13 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Srdjan Spasojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30490	Ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, Honored Chairman, Honorable Minister, Article 13. The draft law on the Judicial Academy refers to the director of the Academy. New Serbia has submitted an amendment that is entirely comprehensive and I am truly sorry that the minister has come out at this time and I cannot accept the fact, and I will have to, that this amendment has been rejected. Practically, we always have some amendments to accept a word that essentially doesn't change anything, and this amendment should have been accepted for a number of reasons. The bill states that the director should have high professional training. The proposal that passes through the amendment is that the threshold is extremely small and should have been put there for nine years. If we start with the fact that a director in the state administration needs a nine-year experience, it's true that it's a judicial academy, but we think the same principles should be met. What the people would say is that only a high expert prepares it. The New Serbia amendment goes in that direction that it was absolutely meant to be the candidate who has a law school and passed a judicial exam. In an environment like the Judicial Academy it is totally unacceptable that a person who has another university decides and commands and leads something at that academy and asks questions, because no one will know better the problems of those students of the Judicial Academy than a graduate lawyer and someone who has a judicial exam. I don't see any reason why it bothered, only if it wasn't pre-excavated that someone from a ruling party, who is already scheduled for the place, is being excavated. It's the only way I can interpret it. My claim, Mr. Cosic, is based on the fact that in Article 59 of this same law you provide for the selection of acting directors of the academy until the election of this director by competition. Now I can guarantee that this acting director will certainly be the future director. So, it's practically beautiful to make sure that the little door... There, it has to be V.D. In order to bring in some founding acts of the academy, etc., and then you will go to the competition, then there will be three or four candidates, and the director is already predetermined. It's completely illogical for you to predict it this way. There is a professional service, there is someone in the legislation, there is someone who will give the initiative. What's with the fact that there's an act of duty, who are we going to pick out later in the competition? I think you should accept this amendment. As I was saying, in the ambience of the Judicial Academy, it's much better to be a graduate lawyer with a passed judicial exam than someone from another profession, because any other profession... This academy is on the budget, there is no income relationship; all the problems of the students of the academy will be better understood by someone who is in that profession. That is the basic reason why you should accept this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30491	Two minutes and fifteen seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Lidija Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30492	I am reporting on the amendment of my colleague, Aleksandr Martinović, to Article 14.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30493	I haven't read that amendment yet. It's no problem. You'll get your word when we've finished this amendment. The question is, does anyone want a word about the amendment to article 14 submitted by Zoran Krasic? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Lidija Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30494	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, MP, Master of Legal Science Aleksandar Martinovic, on behalf of the SRS Parliamentary Group, submitted a very meaningful amendment to article 14 concerning the jurisdiction of the Director of the Judiciary Academy. In this amendment, it is proposed to amend the indent 5 by saying, "The Director submits an annual report on the work of the board of directors, the High Council of the judiciary, the State Council of Prosecutors, the Government and the National Assembly." The government rejected this amendment with the following explanation: "Amendment is not accepted for the reason that the solution referred to in Article 14(5) is a solution. Proposal for a law in accordance with the provision of Article 9. The draft law, under which the Management Board shall elect and resolve the Director, is therefore prescribed to submit an annual report on the work of the Management Board." The Serbian Radical Party believes the amendment should have been accepted because it proposed a higher degree of control and a higher level of public in the work of the Judicial Academy. From that surplus, probably, as the old saying goes, the head wouldn't hurt. And today I will point out that although it represents the most legislative body, it violates the law and the Constitution by not accepting my and my colleague Elena Christmas-Talijan's resignation. Otherwise, our resignations were handed over to the president of the National Assembly on 31 August of this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30495	One minute and 45 seconds were used from the time of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 15th amendment was submitted by a group of twenty MPs of the Prosperity Group of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Milan Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30496	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the President-in-Office, in front of the Prosperity Group, Serbia, along with my colleagues, I have submitted an amendment, or we have submitted an amendment to Article 15. Otherwise, Article 15 refers to the termination of office and the dismissal of directors. We have suggested that this member be deleted because of Article 18(2). The Law on Public Services found that the director of an institution whose founder is the Republic appointed and resolved by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, so that this member, which refers only to the termination of office, is absolutely unnecessary. The government's reasoning, which has partly technical errors, I will not point out to them, is that the amendment is not accepted for the reason that, in accordance with the draft law, a special way of selecting the director, it is also necessary to prescribe its resolution. One argument that was formulated just to formulate itself, with no essential reason to reject the amendment. If we start from that, the selection of directors of each institution dealing with certain specific tasks is a special procedure, but it must have clear legislative regulations. In particular, this argument cannot apply to one institution whose founder is the Republic and where the Law on Public Services provides for the appointment by the Republic. Otherwise, this member is a surplus, and a previous colleague has said that this law has extra members, especially as regards the termination of the office of members and president of the Management Board, as is this member. The law is burdened with certain professional works which are unnecessary in law. This individual competence shall be exercised and regulated by the statutes of the relevant institutions, their internal act on organisation and systematisation. Besides what I said, in this law you have extra members and should be amended, as well as this amendment to Article 15, adopted, because that way the law will be much better, clearer and clearer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30497	It's been used 30 seconds since the MP's group's time. The 16th amendment was submitted by a group of 20 MPs of the Progress Serbia Group. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a national emissary Jelena Budimirovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30498	Thank you. Dear colleagues, respected Serbian citizens, along with my colleagues, I have submitted an amendment on behalf of the SNS Group. We have proposed to delete Article 16, which refers to the establishment and operation of the programme council. We believe that the establishment and operation of a programme council or of any other body that performs professional tasks should be regulated by the statute of the institution and by the act on the internal organisation of business, because it is business that is variable by content and scope due to the change of various regulations, so it is not possible to regulate them by law, especially because such bodies are not managing bodies whose work would have to be regulated by law. The proposed text seeks to address the issue of freedom from the work of judges, prosecutors and judicial staff for work in institutions. I will now quote the 5th position of this member, who says: “The members of the program council of Section 3 of this article can be freed up to 50% of the size of the work in the academy. “ But it is governed by laws that regulate the position of legal holders and employees and laws on the High Council of the judiciary and the State Council of Prosecutors, so that it cannot be regulated by this law. Another reason to delete Article 16 is the proposal that the programme council is the body of the institution and that its work is regulated by this law. At that time, the membership of judges and prosecutors in this body is not allowed because they are functions. Article 30. The Law on Judges and Article 65. The public prosecutor's law has been found that judges and public prosecutors cannot be in office in public services. The law allows judges and prosecutors to work in a training facility, but only to carry out professional work, for limited time, but not to perform functions in public service bodies. The explanation for erasing this article is more than enough and therefore I suggest you accept our amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30499	National MP Boris Aleksic submitted to the 16th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 16 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30500	Madam Minister, you and colleague Srdjan Milivojevic say – reforms in the judiciary, we say – yes. We also show this, in practice, by the large number of amendments we have submitted, some of you have accepted, and this clearly shows that our desire to reform the judiciary is great. For judicial reform, in addition to the SRS MPs, you have absolute support and citizens of Serbia precisely because of cases such as Mr Suvavac and many others in Serbia, which have been waiting for two decades to solve their problems or to realise their claims. That there is no other reason for judicial reform, there is. What you should be most concerned about when choosing judges is their quality. This should be what is basic, most important, no obedience, no party belonging or sympathy. I have to tell you right now, no matter how we understand this message, we're not sure it's going to happen. Despite a recommendation by the acting president of the Serbian Supreme Court not to delay the trial until new judges are elected, you know there is. This will also be said to you by the presidents of municipal and county courts and all others, that many judges, because they are not sure what the outcome will be, what their fate will be after 1 December and 1 January 2010, respectively, are reluctant to order trials. Another example of our consistency is this: when we submitted the amendment to Article 6 we said that, in addition to these three bodies of the judicial academy, a monitoring committee should be established. We haven't touched the program council, here, and we accept it here, but we've had two interventions related to Article 16, which regulates the program council. counterpart Boris Aleksic, who is not in a position to defend this amendment, submitted an amendment to Article 16(4) and said who could not be a member of the programme council. These are members of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, the State Council of Prosecutors, members of the board of directors, which is in the proposal, and he added that lecturers and mentors at the judicial academy should not be proposed, elected for members of the programme council. The amendment that I tabled on behalf of the SRS to Article 16(5) refers to the following proposal: "The members of the programme council referred to in Article 3 of this Article may be free of up to 50% of the work in the academy. “ Let’s just see who makes this composition: “At least five members of the program council are judges, at least three of them are prosecutors, one of whom is proposed by one member by the Association of Judges, or the Association of Prosecutors, and one of them is from the Order of Judiciary and Prosecutors. “ The bill provides for the possibility here that the High Council of Justice or the State Greater Prosecutors of this programme council releases up to 50% of their regular obligations. We have predicted that this position is deleted entirely because we believe that if judges or prosecutors have an obligation to spend more than 50% of their working time in the judicial academy's program board, then surely their need to appear in courts, or in prosecutors, and to carry out the tasks foreseen by law will have to suffer. The fact that the new organisation envisions a reduction in the number of judges by about 600 suggests that there will be a smaller number than it has been so far. If we have a situation that we don't have good court duty now, with an existing number, which will be up to 31. 12. In 2009, what situation will we then have in case a number of members of the programme council are released so that up to 50% of the time they have to spend in courts, or in prosecutors? If this stays, it will be a rule that 50% of the time will be released, and then they may use it for other purposes and needs. The final position of Article 16 states: "Members of the programme council who are not part of the order of judges, prosecutors, and judicial and prosecutorial staff have the right to special compensation for work, which is determined by the board of directors. “ Nothing is disputed, they have the right to a special fee, but there is a need here, in one indirect way it is seen that the supervisory board should exist. If the Management Board makes a decision on compensation for members of the Programme Board, the Supervisory Board should periodically control how these funds are spent, whether they are purposely spent, whether in the amount granted. Therefore, this amendment submitted to Article 16, as well as the amendment to Article 6, should be adopted, as this law would in that case be more acceptable and more applicable in practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30501	Three minutes and fifteen seconds were used from the time of the parliamentary group. The 17th amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Spasojevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Srdjan Spasojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30502	New Serbia's stance on the admission exam and on the members of the judicial academy is well known. It's too much and it's unacceptable to do that. I wouldn't repeat it again, it's a general position, that the entrance exam for someone who's a graduate lawyer and has a passed judicial exam is completely illusory. Madam Minister, I will use this section to point out some absolutely unacceptable things and statements from Mr. Homen's Secretary of State at the moment when we choose judges, or when the High Council deals with the team. I'd really like to know if it's an individual statement or if you're behind this statement? The holders of judicial functions are completely confused, because one day it is said that the job is finished, when it comes to choice, and the next day it is denied. I think such a relationship between the executive authority and the people who are holders of judicial functions is unserious. First of all, it is unacceptable for future holders of judicial functions. I think it's very incorrect for those former legal holders who, well, in a month's time, are probably going to lose their jobs, they're not going to be legal holders anymore. At a time when we have that choice we simply need to fence ourselves; if the choice of judges is so secret, I don't think that such a thing contributes to the judicial system in this country. Finally, the right statements should be made, if the judges of the Cassation Court... If the candidacy is done, they should be published. It shouldn't wait until the last minute and make one cut on December 1st. It's still about the judges, it's not just any people, it's people who in this country, in one way or another, but probably in some correct sense carried those judicial functions, did the job. He is particularly concerned, as a fellow SRS officer said, that we have in this situation a delay in a large number of trials, waiting; simply, he is paralyzed at this time by the judicial system. So, you know who's suffering? The citizens of Serbia, citizens of Serbia, who cannot exercise their right. Many await a first-degree verdict, many awaiting a second-degree verdict. Simply, Serbian citizens cannot exercise their rights at this time. Why? Because many judicial officials are waiting to see what their status is. I think it's high time you deal with the team, because Serbian citizens don't have to take any of this sort of thing that we have, the choice of judges, suffer. They shouldn't be interested in that, after all. Moreover, Serbian citizens, and I also don't understand how this judicial system will be more effective when a large number of judges will not be bearers; it decreases by dozens, hundreds of judges. The legislator, or executive authority, has made some efforts through peaceful dispute resolution through the introduction of a guilty institute through large court fees to prevent some court disputes. But that doesn't mean that justice will remain the best judges, it doesn't mean that we will have a more efficient system because great legal holders will come, but because of a series of measures that have been done before, there will be fewer disputes. That's true. In any case, we look forward to it being more efficient, if so, but given the examples of countries in the environment that have implemented the same system as ours, believe me, ask around a little bit, in countries around the trial are scheduled for three, four, five months in litigation. I will once again say from this place – until you change the Code of Criminal Procedure, none of the reforms in the judiciary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30503	Two minutes and 45 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. The word is made by Justice Minister Snezana Malovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30504	I would like to thank all the MPs who have tabled the amendments and for this bill, as well as the other draft laws on the agenda of today's session of parliament. A few things are mentioned here, which may have something to do with the very texts of the law, and may not, and I feel a duty to both you and the citizens of Serbia to make certain facts that have been made clear. First, as for Mr. Homen's statement on whether or not judges were elected in Serbia, I would like to say that the title was drawn from the context of his words, it was put by the editors. Later, it was also denied by Mr. Homen himself, and the president of the Supreme Council of the judiciary acted with the right. As a member of the High Council of the Judiciary, I would like to say to you and the citizens of Serbia that the choice of judges is still under way, that the application of all candidates is being considered studioically, as the law requires, as ordered by the Regulation on criteria for the selection, promotion and resolution of judges, who adopted the Supreme Council of the judiciary, which the Venice Commission assessed by a positive assessment. These are the only criteria held by the High Council of the Judiciary and as a member of the High Council of the Judiciary, I will literally apply it, nothing beyond that. I also want to say that the Department of Justice is competent to ensure the smooth work of the judicial authorities. It is an obligation arising from the law and the Constitution and we will do so so that the organisation and the network of judicial authorities can begin working on 1 January 2010. With that in mind, I would like to stress that the beginning of the work of the courts is the beginning of the law in that part of January 1st, not since March, as it may have come to some of the statements. I would like to stress that this law is something that needs to contribute to judicial reform, because the choice of judges and prosecutors will be made on the basis of whether certain persons have been trained in the judicial academy and what assessment they have been given. The number of seats will be determined by the High Council of the judiciary and the State's Major Prosecutors. I agree with your statement, Mr. Spasojevic, that judicial reform cannot, at least in the part relating to litigation, be complete unless the law on executive proceedings is changed. Also important is the Law on Prosecution and will be found on the website of the Justice Ministry in the coming days. I invite everyone interested to look at the bill. Also, I want to hold talks with the parliamentary groups on this issue, and that it may be on the agenda of this House's session as early as next month. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30505	The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic. It's in the electronic system. Do you want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30506	Since Mrs Malovic has already given part of the explanation regarding some of the concerns that exist with our fellow MPs, it is not going to be me as a graduate farmer of agriculture, the direction of livestock farming, to lecture people who have graduated from a law school in Sarajevo, Belgrade or anywhere else in Serbia. However, clarifications are working, for the Democratic Party, binding what is written in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia – in Chapter 7, of Article 142 and further defined the principles of the judiciary, the kind of courts, the choice of judges. The Democratic Party, as long as it is in power and has the responsibility to perform the largest state functions in this country, will adhere to the Constitution, and some other political parties can adhere to "Kurira", "Presa" and other tabloids and place titles that suit them. This is purely in the context of that suggestion that 500 people will be out of a job. As Mrs Malovic explained, the Secretary of State Slobodan Homen did not say. It was said by the editorship of a tabloid in Serbia and put it as a headline in its newspaper. I don't even see a reason to deny it, because in the same newspaper, it said that yesterday in Serbia it would be a beautiful and sunny day, and it was raining well in Belgrade. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30507	One minute and twenty seconds were used from the time of the parliamentary group. The 18th amendment was submitted by a group of 20 MPs of the Progress Serbia Group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 18 of the amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Spasojevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Srdjan Spasojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30508	Article 18 and this amendment - I have already told you in the debate in principle and in particular that our principled view that the Judicial Academy is sufficient for someone to be a member of the Judicial Academy and that there is no reason for a judicial exam. I'm partly pleased, Madam Minister, with your explanation for some of my questions. I would like to ask you this time – what will the Justice Department do for a large number of lawyers who have been on strike these days for fiscalisation, or the introduction of fiscal accounts into that dam? I'll give you just one example, I'd like you to explain to me, if fiscal cash registers are introduced, in what way will someone be allowed to detax, or reduce the amount of defense by official duty? You know that when a defense is officially served by the courts, that is, the budget pays the lawyers 50% of what they have invoiced. This is a specific example. If all is typed through a fiscal account, how will the courts and who will be allowed to approve to pay 50%, if you typed in a 100% fiscal account? So I'd really like to go through this example, where there's absolute correctness of a lawyer, where it's accepted... Of course, it wasn't you who introduced it, it was a long, long time ago, that lawyers were paid 50% of the services provided. I'm giving a concrete example, I just don't understand how something like that would happen. I think I made myself clear, Madam Minister. I find that unacceptable. You have a variety of instructions and various letters from international organisations that protect the interests of lawyers, when it comes to fiscalisation, and nowhere in Europe there is such a system for the collection of legal services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30509	Fifty seconds of time used by the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 19th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Radovic, Jovan Palalic and Miroslav Petkovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Miroslav Petkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30510	Madam Chairman, the Honorable Mrs Malovic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the DSS Group held in principle the view that Serbia needs a judicial academy, that Serbia needs this law, but we have made a series of objections and objections to the text of the proposed law. I am pleased that the government has adopted some 11 amendments. I think there was room to adopt many more amendments that opposition MPs submitted to the proposed text of the law precisely in order to correct this text. This text has 61 members, and 102 amendments, so, twice as many amendments have been tabled on the draft of this law. I think it was necessary for the government to accept the amendment of the Democratic Party of Serbia, which we have submitted when it comes to determining persons who can be mentors and lecturers. Namely, in Article 19. The bill states that mentors can only be judges and deputy public prosecutors. We have, of course, respected the fact that the holders of judicial functions must be mentors, but we wanted to include representatives of lawyers in that circle, precisely because they are people with great knowledge and experience. I'd like to hear from you, if you have this information, how many former judges, the President of the Court is now in law, people who have spent practically twenty, thirty years in courts? I don't think they should be excluded from this process. I don't think being an occasional lecturer gives them enough space to really educate people who need to go through the Justice Academy. Another example: when we talk about lawyerry, you are aware that the state's major prosecutor's office has not been completed, that the Assembly has not passed the proposal of the Bar Association of Lawyers, namely, has not received the support of the DS candidate of the Serbian Bar Association. I don't know why it was done like that, but in a month and a half, we are expected to operate a new justice system in Serbia. Does this mean that the State's Chief Prosecutor won't be working in full? Don't mind, it's normal for MPs to expect certain answers from you, you're a member of the High Council of the Judiciary. We can't tell if the editors or the secretary of state have properly delivered any statements. It has often happened that your secretary of state, Mr. Homen, has made different statements. I will remind you only of the situation with Mr. Ciric, State Secretary of the Ministry of Economy, when we literally did not know what was going on, or the judges did not know what was going on in individual work disputes. That's why certain sanctions have been imposed, but I don't see that they've corrected anything in their behavior towards the media. When this guy's statements are made, they have to be very clear and precise, because it's the fate of hundreds of people in this country. I remind you, too, that the High Council of the Judiciary is not in complete composition. In fact, the candidate of the law school did not come to the vote at all, he was not proposed here at the session to be declared by the MPs. This means that the number of 2.252 judges and 600 prosecutors in Serbia will be reduced by about 400; according to data you published, 1,863 people should be elected judges during this re-election. It will not be done in the full composition of the Supreme Council of the judiciary. Of course it wasn't a wish a year ago, when we passed a law on the High Council of the Judiciary. When that number is reduced to these 1,800 judges, 1,285 cases come to one judge. In Belgrade, the data is even more significant, worse, because 1,700 cases will come after a judge. I don't think there's a judicial academy that's going to be able to get legal holders to fight so many cases. We point out all of this in order for you to reconsider and accept some of the amendments that we have submitted. Of course, we'll explain some more amendments during the session. We believe that they are primarily aimed at correcting the text of the law and allowing legal holders to do their job in a quality way. We wish that we could trust you, both you and the secretary of state and the people of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, that indeed these criteria that are foreseen will be respected, that this will be chosen by judges in Serbia. We will have the opportunity to plead when the re-election is over, when we consider all these memos that are coming, believe me, every day from different backgrounds, from various cities in Serbia. It is perfectly normal that people are concerned and that they provide certain information about what is happening in certain courts, as they say, mount certain results. Take care of the election of judges to be conducted within the next month. If the judges elected only remain silent and are aware of the fact that there have been irregularities, then it is the fact that the parties chose to do so. When the party chooses, then you must remain silent and put up with it, you must not rebel against it. Of course there'll be a few hundred dissatisfactions, probably a large part of them and justified. You'll allow me, I'll hand you a memo that I received from the Trade Court in Chačka, which was signed by 26 employees, which primarily refers to this provisional rule that you passed in October of the month, where, I'm merely stating an example, with 22 employees in 13 systematiced jobs this court should function. The town of Cachak barely fought to get a trade court. You know we belonged to the King and it was just a department. I think that these people who do their job in a good way should be allowed to do it properly. Believe me, with three office employees, with five judges, one of which is the President of the Court, you can't handle 2,500 cases, how much has arrived at this point in the Chamber of Commerce. Under the new rule, three judicial assistants are scheduled. If we really want to look at things, I'm sure you're aware of the fact that it's impossible to do it in a quality way. I once again appeal to you not to bring yourself and all the people who are members of the High Council of the judiciary into the situation in the next month and not to look us in the eye because we are going to prove to you that the choice of judges has not been made in the law. Please give this case to you later, to look at only one small example (believe that there are hundreds of them at the DSS Parliament Club), all in the desire to really help the holders of judicial functions and to help citizens who address these courts to exercise their rights and justice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30511	Five minutes and twenty seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. Dear People's MPs, applying Article 27 and Article 88(2), I just want to inform you: thanks to the careful reading of Vice-President Judita Popovic, the report of the Committee on Culture and Information which has just been shared contains a technical error. I would like to thank Vice President Judita Popovic. Correction will be made, and you will be divided. Those who have already had a report should know that the error was detected. I apologize if you've been led astray by reading. The amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Spasojevic to article 19. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 20th Amendment was submitted by a group of twenty MPs of the Progress Serbia Group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 22nd Amendment was submitted by a group of twenty MPs of the Prosperity Group of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Jorvanka Tabaković.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30512	We have submitted an amendment to Article 22 which speaks of funds and conditions for the operation of the Academy. Article 22, as defined in the bill, says funds for the work of the Academy are provided from the Republic of Serbia's budget, which is undeniable but also from donations, gifts, revenues from publishing publications and the realization of projects and other sources, in accordance with the law. Our solution provided that the funds for the institution's work were provided exclusively from the Republic of Serbia's budget. There's more reason for that. First of all, what is called judicial independence is really provided by precise funding only from the budget. Because whoever pays you directly or indirectly can direct your work. The evidence of this and the principle that this government has, at least that part of the Democratic Party ministers, was carried out through Mr. Sutanovac's stance: when we had an objection that our soldiers who were part of the Norwegian contingent were sent somewhere in the peace mission to fight for peace and justice had no Norwegian salary, even though their authorities wanted to pay our soldiers' wages because they were already under their flag, the explanation was – it would be beneath me, and it would be a shame for the state, that these soldiers would be paid by someone else. Why is it not a shame here for one who should decide on justice and on fully accurate individual rights that they are financed from certain donations or other sources? It is simply not consistently implemented in one government, which means independence and the obligation of the state to finance its most important organs. What I am particularly concerned about, not as a doubt, but as an experience, is this kind of source called – revenue from publishing publications, which may be and are some kind of own income. Do I need to remind myself how many of my own incomes are uncontrollable and out of the way of this government's money, without being able to enter into records, control and, most importantly, the function of this state and the defence of citizens' rights? So we're introducing controversial ways of funding the law. Then as Government, we complain we can't control it. What's the scariest, missing funding means we provide by putting on paper signatures on loans that are not easy at all, but are very long-term, in terms of the obligations we produce. The moment to react is exactly this, when we can't allow that kind of funding. Please seriously consider this one more time.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30513	The time used for an authorised representative is one minute and thirty seconds, as deputy president of the parliamentary group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Article 23 of the amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's Messenger Mirko Munjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30514	Article 23 regulates the issue of judge and prosecutor training. Madam Minister, after two or three sentences, which also have something to do with this subject, I will look a little more specifically at this training of judges and prosecutors, what is the subject of this amendment. Before that, allow me a couple of little dyspressions related to the general state of the courts. At a time when you already know how many and in which courts there are extra judges, when there is already some way to "trive" the judge, the choice of judges is being held, although all of this is done under some secret, nothing is, as you say, transparent, but I suppose it will all be at a time when you announced that there is a choice of judges. I'll tell you that, for example, the District Court of the Nine Judges, has four surpluses. The town court in Cačka has nearly 50% of the extra judges. Municipal courts, I'm talking about the courts of the Moravia County, municipal courts in Gornji Milanovac, Guci, Ivanjici also have an extra judge. Madam Minister, do you know that in certain courts they already exercise, in the towers, statements by individual judges that they might offer some 10,000-15 000 euros if they choose, do you know? Did you know that some judges in some courts are already thinking out loud about what they would do if they were elected? Madam Minister, these are the judges from the second, third echelon. Those are the judges of the second, third call. They already know they will be chosen. I've talked to a few of them and I can see from the conversation that they already know they're going to be elected. They know, but, I'm sure, not based on their references to their previous work, to confirm their decisions, etc., but on some entirely different circumstances that have nothing to do with this. As for the training of judges, we asked for the training of judges and prosecutors to be organized to restore and perfect practical and theoretical knowledge and skills necessary for the independent, professional and efficient performance of their functions. As for renewal, I am sure that whoever graduated from law school and passed a judicial exam, unless a certain number of years are in some matter or insufficient in that matter, that knowledge is slowly lost and it is necessary to restore its knowledge through this. In addition, it should be perfected in these practical and theoretical knowledge needed to perform the judicial function. The government said her decree was more precise. She didn't explain why she was more precise, she didn't explain why she didn't accept that there was a renewal of their knowledge and the perfecting of practical and theoretical knowledge, but let her go that the government said what she said, that their decision was more precise. However, I ask the question – will this training that you have foreseen prevent illegal, ordered decisions and, listen to this, fictitious decisions? I'm deliberately making fictitious decisions about some of the events I'm about to tell you about. It happens that judges make a fictitious decision, Madam Minister, without holding a session. Now I'm going to give you an example of this. I'll give you the paperwork you need if you're willing to take a look at it. As an authorised representative of the SRS to elect a new MEP in So Luciana, I submitted a proposal to the Electoral Commission. The President of the Election Commission, Madam Minister, is the judge of the Municipal Court in Guca Jelena Curcic. In addition, I have submitted all the necessary documentation, the decision of the District Court that earlier, the former council member is no longer a committeeman, that he lost the status of the committee; then, the written consent of the candidates to accept the term of office and my authority as an authorised person of the applicant of the electoral list. What happened? I have learned that the Election Commission, whose chairman of this judge, has made a decision to assign the mandate to a person I did not propose as an authorised representative. I suggested Milovan Obradovic. The judge in question has made a decision to assign the mandate, here is a coma - Verica Stanojevic. The mandate, he said, was assigned by the Lucani Municipality's Electoral Commission to a candidate appointed by the applicant for the electoral list, an economic technician from Lucana Verica Stanojevic. The election committee appointed has issued confidence that it has been elected. Madam Minister, I went to the judge on Friday to present the file (with my authority that I was an authorised representative) on the basis of which I proposed a new candidate in front of the SRS. When I gave her all the documentation, as well as the explanation of the District Court that I'm going to show you, where it's said that I'm the only authorised representative in front of the SRS who can do that, when I gave her all the paperwork, do you know what she told me, two or three times? After this, I can kill myself. Two or three times the judge told me that again. All of this would be no big deal in the realm of material rights, clearly, by proving whether or not it was meant to be one way or another, you understand, if the judge hadn't literally told me – I didn't even hold that session. Madam Minister, someone brought her, according to her words, a piece of paper that said who was choosing the councilman. They told her it was a valid decision, that it was all right and that she should just sign it. Imagine that farce! She signed it. She told me she signed another decision that day. Right, it was the choice of another councilman. That's what the judge did. What kind of justice are we talking about? What kind of morality, what choice of judges, what kind of judges will you choose, Madam Minister? Would you choose judges who are so obedient? Would you choose the judges who make the decisions without holding the sessions? It's unseen in the history of the judiciary, not just ours. I'll give you that paperwork later. Example number two, let me do that. After this farce that has happened, the County Court of Cacca, the worthy judge Milorad Janjijevic, states in his explanation that it is true that I am the only legal applicant for the Election Commission's documentation, that I am the only person who, in his capacity as an applicant, can apply for a change of committee. He confirms it. At the same time, however, he says he rejects our appeal for the reason that the Election Commission was not given written consent by the person to accept the mandate. She's been put up with it. Here, it says here in the file that it was filed, writes – the written consent of the candidates, acceptance of the mandate, signed by a municipality worker. This judge rejects us for that, Madam Minister. Come on, and that would be the subject of some... that the judge did not fail to read a member of the Law on Local Elections, which says: “It is written consent to accept the term of office from the candidates before confirming the term of office. “ Madam Minister, the mandate is confirmed by the local self - government assembly, the local self - government assembly is seeking this written consent, not by the Election Commission, as this great judge claims. So, at this stage of the Electoral Commission, we didn't need this in writing. Look at the judges. You should train them, but some you shouldn't choose, surely. These are your examples, there are more of them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30515	Nine minutes has been used since the MPs' time. The word is made by Justice Minister Snezana Malovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30516	I thank you for your discussion. The aim of the judicial reform is to ensure an independent, efficient, objective and responsible judiciary, in order to restore citizens' confidence in the judiciary itself, because it is the only way to ensure the right to a fair trial and the right to trial within a reasonable time. From all your discussion, I've been under the impression that you're in favour of judicial reform. I have to say that many of the facts that you've presented are disturbing, especially since you said someone tried or intended to offer money to certain persons to be elected. If it is about judges, I would like to point out that according to the Criminal Code, the attempt to bribe a criminal act is itself. Please, if you have that kind of information, point it out to the DA. At the very least, it is the obligation of every citizen of Serbia, and especially of a national MP representing Serbian citizens. I ask you once again, and I suggest, if you have such information, that you point to the prosecutor, because that's something that's being prosecuted on official duty. The same applies to the second part of your discussion, when you said that the judges had made, as you put it, the fictional decisions and that those decisions were, as I understood, written by someone else. According to the Criminal Code, it is also a criminal offence which is prosecuted by official duty and with this regard, please and I suggest that you inform the prosecutor as well.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30517	National MP Mirko Munjic, right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30518	Madam Minister, in any case, the SRS supports judicial reform, but reforms must be truly comprehensive. There can't be a situation like this in our system. I've set two examples. There's still plenty of cases like that. I told you to talk about it in the towers. That's what I heard in the towers of two or three courts. As far as this is concerned, here they come to me, let me just tell you this, by the people who are members and deputies of the Electoral Commission who I sent a memo to because they made an illegal decision, if they made it, if they participated in it, that I would file criminal charges, as an authorized person, against them... Here come the statements of these people, let me read to you just one thing: “I declare, under your criminal and material responsibility, that I did not take part in the decision of the Electoral Commission SO Lucani, to which the mandate of the committee in SO was assigned, according to the proposal of Obrenić Vukoman, Stanojevic Verici. I also declare that no one at the Electoral Commission session where such a decision was made has invited me, nor has anyone contacted me on such a decision in any other way, so that I did not take part in the decision of the Election Commission on the mandate of Stanojevic Verici. “ I’ll let you know if I get any more of these statements, and I’ll finally complete your paperwork. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30519	National MP, I am under obligation, working under Article 27, to repeat to you and to all other MPs who have knowledge of the attempted crime or criminal offence, regardless of whether it is a judge, a member of the electoral commission or any other, by law you are obliged to inform the public prosecutor, and not the minister of justice. I ask you to understand that this is not about the exchange of information between us, but about the legal obligation, whether we're MPs or not, to inform the D.A.'s office of attempted bribery, because it's also a crime, and any criminal act we have knowledge of. It's in the laws that we've passed. We ask the Minister of Justice to oversee the legality, since it is the work of the Ministry of Justice, and for strict application we are obliged to do so as citizens. You're re-enlisted, do you want a replica of the minister? You had the right to a replica of the minister, and I made it clear in my address that I was applying Article 27. You have no right to a replica. National MP Verica Radeta, right to replica the minister's presentation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30520	First of all, Mrs. Comic, what you just said to your colleague, Munjic, is not exactly in line with the law. (President: National MPs, you have been given the right to reply to the Minister's presentation and I ask you to use it rightly. ) Mrs. Comic, this is where the circle revolves: it was said by his colleague, Munjic, Mrs. Minister, Col. Munjic, you, Mrs. Minister. And this is part of this debate, but anyway. It is good that Mrs. Minister is concerned about the situation in the judiciary, but, Mrs. Malovic, what you said earlier in the law says that someone who offers bribes is subject to criminal responsibility, as well as one who receives bribes, you know, everyone was terrified -- both those who offer and those who receive bribes. We know that, and the ones who do it know that. Mrs. Malovic, you are not expected to have a theoretical debate, you are expected to say what you have done or what you will do specifically. You know, if the MP from this place raises suspicion that someone committed a crime, support it with certain documents, as counterpart Munjic did earlier, then it obliges you and your ministry's right of supervision, but it also obliges the public prosecutor. All that's said here is a publicly spoken word. The public prosecutor has an obligation, not to wait for someone to come and write to him, Mrs. Comic, but to react if he reads something in the paper and if he hears someone say it somewhere, especially if one of the MPs said it. This is not the first time we've been distracted – if you know it, go and file a criminal report. We, when we talk about justice all the time, talk about how we've filed as many criminal charges as you want and how these criminal charges end up in a drawer. It is the essence of our claim that the judiciary is well under control, under the paw of the executive authority. That's what's not good. To file or not to file criminal charges, as long as there's such a string, there's nothing to it. What my colleague Munjic said, the case of this term, needs to be carefully strained by the brain and understand what nonsense this court and the election commission have done. Imagine, an authorised representative suggests one man to be a councilman, and you, because someone else whispered to you, determine that the councilman is someone who was not proposed by someone who was authorized to do so. It's something a healthy brain can't take and explain to itself. It's not the only case of electoral violation. Mrs. Comic, if you'll excuse me, I'll proceed to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30521	There are other registered MPs. The replica is complete, so we'll have a question again who wants the word. People's MP Milorad Krstin has been reported in the electronic system. You want to talk about the amendment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30522	Madam Minister, I'm just going to complete something with evidence similar to that of my colleague Munjic. You know well that I was with you about two, two and a half months ago, you received me, and this is about elections for the Council of the Meat Community in the populated town of Novo Milosevo, the municipality of Novi Becej. There, the SRS of 17 candidates won nine and had a majority. However, the Electoral Commission, which voluntarily revised the minutes from the polling post 24-19, has reduced two council members, for several reasons, which are DS members. I told you at the time that the District Court, in exchange for two councilors, of the 22 SRS in the city of Zrenjanin, acted legally, but that same District Court, on our criminal charges against two members of the Electoral Commission, did not act by law and said it was not in their jurisdiction, which you replied to me that you were not satisfied with the work of the District Court in Zrenjanin. You have systems, methods to check civil litigation, civil charges. We took the lawyer who filed criminal charges against them. These are not the only examples, the example presented by Mr. Munjic and the example I present, the events in the Central Banat County, the municipality of Novi Becej, the inhabited town of Novo Milosevo. There are bigger stories, there is a dump that should be in Novi Milosevic, where about 640,000,000 dinars will be invested, and it is known, if the SRS comes, there will be no stuttering or thieving, so some needed to steal two council members. I showed you the records from the polling station 24-19. In the section – any objections, none of the members of the election board signed that they had objections. Even at the end of Monday morning, they published a list of council members without the signing of the president of the Electoral Commission in the Novo Milosevic Mesna Community and without stamps, and the count was only Thursday. Since Sunday, when the elections were over at 8:00, it was counted until 3:15 a.m. on Monday, and it continued only Thursday, without a member of the SRS. Examples like this in Serbia, Madam Minister, you have a lot, and you do nothing; do nothing to get them to do what they are paid for in the judiciary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30523	Three minutes and eleven seconds from the time of the SRS parliamentary group were used. It is now available for 26 minutes and 30 seconds. The People's Parliament of the Witch of Radeta, on the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30524	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are talking today about the draft law on the judicial academy. Just imagine what that sounds like - a judicial academy. This should have special significance in the future judicial system and in all, both current and future, graduate lawyers. In particular, I am talking about the amendment of my colleague Mirko Munjic to Article 23, who said that the training of judges and prosecutors was organised to restore and perfect practical and theoretical knowledge and skills necessary for the independent, professional and efficient performance of their functions. Why this isn't accepted, it's probably only the minister and her associates. It's not good if you don't accept an amendment like this and if you don't understand how well-intentioned our amendments are. I will remind you in the context of the reasoning of this amendment, let's say, of the amendment that I have submitted to article 35 where you have forgotten (conceal, you have forgotten! ) to state constitutional law as one of the basics. You said: “The initial training takes two years, starts on October 1st and consists of the theoretical and practical work in the field of civil, criminal and criminal law, as well as general and professional culture. “ You did not foresee constitutional law training. You've accepted the amendment, and that's good, but I want to say how much we truly wanted these amendments, believe me, for the sake of the very justice system and for the young people who are going to be in this judicial academy... We have to tell these people, I said that before, make them feel like something really important in their lives, in their careers, in their professional orientation, etc. What counterpart Munjic was saying, citing concrete examples from the Lucani court, regarding these parliamentary mandates, is no wonder, we have as many examples as you like. A moment ago, in the context of an amendment, I said that Nata Mesarevic, president of the Supreme Court, is a regime man. And now I'm saying it. So, this Mrs. Nata Mesarevic, for a year -- either she didn't give a council council or she gave it to someone and told them she kept it in a drawer -- she holds in the drawer the subject of the SRS Forest District Committee, which is tied to the parliamentary mandates, which only in that court, on the territory of the District Court in Kragujevac is not resolved in accordance with the law. And, nothing, it stands. As long as it stands, who cares. Mrs. Nata Mesarevic is famous for what she says – we have received the verdict instead – we have reached a verdict, so that we really do not need such things, unfortunately, to surprise us. There are problems regarding the application of the Constitution, the law and the Rules of Procedure and in this House itself. Today we are discussing amendments adopted by the Government and the Justice Committee, but we do not have the opinion of the Legislative Committee. Of course, in the SRS, we also answer to these amendments, because it would never have been known that you at the Justice Academy left out to provide for theoretical and practical teaching from constitutional law that there is no opportunity for us to say that we drew your attention. It is not a good practice that the Legislative Committee does not have an opinion. In fact, the Legislative Committee couldn't meet, there were more attempts, but there was no quorum. Now, Mrs. Comic, I will quote what you said to Mr. Todorovic the other day about his remarks that the representatives of the Democratic Party do not come to the Security Committee, as you do not come, I now say, on the Legislative Committee and do not make quorum. You say then: “As for your remarks on the work of the working bodies, I remind you that for the president of the National Assembly, the president of the National Assembly, the chair of the National Assembly, as well as the presidents of the working bodies, it is valid and can be applied to Article 27, which implies the care of the orderly conduct of the jobs for which he is in charge as president of the working body. So, I don't think so," you say, Mrs. Comic, "all opportunities are exhausted to hold a session of the committee you chair. I refer you to the provisions that you can address to the President of the National Assembly, which will schedule a committee session, but at the same time I remind you that every president of each working body, as each chairman, is obliged to provide conditions for the work of that body. This is not only practice but also obligations under the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and this responsibility cannot be transferred to anyone. “ Of course, when you talk like this, we have no right to replicate, but you see, there is always an opportunity to comment on it. My question for you and Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic is: did you address the chairman of the Legislative Committee Vlatko Ratkovic this way; did Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic schedule a session of the Legislative Committee within her jurisdiction; was the quorum provided for the session of the Legislative Committee? Since you said that the obligation of both the President of Parliament and the Chairman and the President of the Working Body, how do you explain that yesterday and the day before yesterday we did not start working at the time foreseen by the Rules of Procedure, that you did not provide a quorum for the start of the session, and that did not happen only yesterday and the day before, but more times? Whose responsibility is that, Mrs. Comic? You further said, when Mr. Todorovic remarked that the MPs of the SRS did not make the quorum respond that it was our political position... That's true, of course, we still won't do the quorum where the ruling coalition has a duty. You know, if you're ruling, it means you have a majority in both the Assembly and every working body. If you need help, then it means you're not ruling anymore, that you don't have most, right? You said well at the time: “You consider the political position of the decision not to attend the sessions of the working bodies a political attitude and cannot be the subject of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. “ It’s okay, I’m just asking you as a member of the Democratic Party is the Democratic Party’s political position not to attend the session of the Legislative Committee? Furthermore, we have a problem here, Madam Minister, not in your direct jurisdiction, but certainly, widely interpreting, it's good that as a minister of justice you know and that, we also have a problem with the functioning of the Administrative Committee. We have two resignations, which were submitted by Lidija Dimitrijevic and Elena Bozic-Talijan, in accordance with the Constitution, in accordance with our rules of procedure, but not in line with the position of Nenad Konstantinovic, who for that time provided the majority on the board to say that there are no conditions to accept those resignations. Do you, Mrs. Malovic, mind your own business? You've been a member of the RIK for a long time, and you know exactly what it means to be an MP or not to be an MP. I guess it has to be respected, but your Democratic Party doesn't respect it. We had a case on RIK a few days ago, here Mr. Odalović is present as a member of RIK – there was a suspicion by the Democratic Party in RIK whether the authority of our colleague Ljuba Kragovic is in accordance with the law, because, my God, they probably think it is impossible for Vojislav Seselj from The Hague to give someone specific authority. So, what happened here and what happened? Of course, Ljuba Kragovic has the proper authority, because Vojislav Seselj in The Hague gives all the powers needed, is certified by the Consulate and with the seal of consulates, these powers are applied to legal traffic in Serbia wherever necessary. Provoked, of course, by such suspicion, which was not only present at the time, is that, Mr. Odalovic, members of the RIK of the SRS asked to check the authority of Mr. Goran Bogdanovic to replace a councilman, I think in the municipality of Novo Brdo, I may have confused the municipality. Here, Mr. Odalovic says – Vitina. Then what was found in the materials? That Boris Tadic authorised Mark Đurisic, and based on that authority, Marko Djurisic authorised Goran Bogdanovic to conduct certain electoral actions, submit documentation, a list, etc., which is absolutely in accordance with the law and is not controversial. But in that authority that Tadic gave Đurisic, it stands out that he is not allowed to change the councils, and the Democratic Party tried to push that through the Republic Election Commission five days ago, Mr. Odalovic. But thanks to the zealous work of members of the SRS commission, Mr Odalovic also accepted it as a fact to which it had to respond. Of course, in the meantime, Mr Bogdanovic was given proper authority. There's nothing to argue about, but what do we want to tell you? That one of the most sacred rights, it's an electoral right, in this House, in this assembly, so much violates that a truly normal man and a good lawyer, it hurts his head. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30525	Since the parliamentary group's time, eleven minutes and fifty seconds have been used, the SRS has 15 minutes and twenty seconds at its disposal. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 25th Amendment was submitted by a group of twenty-nation MPs of the Prosperity Group of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Mileta Poscurica.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30526	Ladies and gentlemen, it is quite obvious that an unfathomable dream of lustration, at least of its indirect effects, can be implemented in the judiciary by law, by mic, by law. We have one of those in front of us, who may have the ultimate goal of losing a few hundred judges after all. However, perhaps not under the same political circumstances that were in place at a time when another minister was shouting loudly why the law was missing, why not cancel all functions and repeat the choice. We're on the trail of the fact that we're already several laws that regulate the work of the judiciary, systematically regulate it, the law of the judiciary, the law of the network, and now the law we're passing, about the academy... Of course, we've made an observation as to why we're talking about the Academy Act, why it's called the Academy, because we're now introducing an education system that's completely inappropriate for someone who's probably going to be a master in a year or two soon, so he's going to end up a higher education, he's going to have an adequate degree of professional training. After that, he'll have to go, in a time that's obviously not long enough to settle the demand of an academic educational institution, what the academy provides, but of course you don't accept any amendments and suggestions... We are not sure that you will accept what we wanted to amend in Article 25, which may be a key member of the third chapter, as regards the training of judges and prosecutors. With one small correction, we tried to specify this description of the initial training that should be done by those involved in the judges and the deputy prosecutors, at the level of the basic courts and in the infringing courts; through this initial training they should be introduced, with the amendment of the members, in terms of this law. Therefore, in order to avoid a legal institution that you have appointed, we have passed through the Law on the Supreme Council of the judiciary, where there is an unequivocal obligation in Article 13 to train, this so-called initial training, only judges, so to avoid such ambiguity in the law, we have proposed in Article 25 of the amendment that has exceeded, logical and would, of course, concern both the judge and the deputy prosecutors, but also their assistants and trainees. We didn't get a proper response from the government. The answer we received was not satisfied, a team before we were followed by our further amendments, in which the amendment to which the legislator was called was also the subject of our intervention that we wanted to delete, so this was, therefore, a very far-fetched amendment, but in the context of adoption and that 45th member. Of course, we can see that this is very unlikely, that the system of work and the functioning of the organisation of the judicial network, the judiciary, the election of judges is obviously being conducted politically. We come from the middle in which judges at professional colleges, regular meetings despise each other. Someone feels completely safe, someone extremely insecure. It's a rather immature and unhealthy atmosphere in our courts and they're not doing it, but obviously they have to resort to such reform procedures by the Justice Ministry, and we'll see what that leads to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30527	One minute and thirty seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 25 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 26th Amendment was submitted by a group of 20 MPs of the Progress Serbia Group. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30528	Article 26, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, who also treats initial training, has been formulated differently by the Serbian Progressive Party, and in order to comply with laws that are extremely important in the area of justice, means, with the Law on Judges, the Law on Public Prosecutors, the Law on the High Court and the Law on the State Council of Prosecutors. According to us, this article is as it is given in the bill is not adequate, it is in collegiate with these laws, for the simple reason that this law on the Judicial Academy is exempt from the right to decide on the rights and obligations of the holders of judicial functions, especially when it comes to the right to professional training. This right is handed over to the agency, or academy, the right to train and to elect candidates for training. It's a right that must belong to the judicial authorities, not to the academy. This member of the 26th Academy has, in a way, conditioned new candidates with an entrance exam, which should also not be the right of the academy, but, as I said, stems from these laws that he just listed. In some ways, it is also humiliating that judges and public prosecutors, who have been elected and who have proved by election in the National Assembly, or at least we MPs have so assessed, that they have adequate qualifications, adequate expertise, that they are worthy of the functions to which they are elected, take an additional exam in front of the academy. It seems to me that this is a bad solution, which in some ways degrades both the judicial and the prosecution functions and the judiciary at all. Therefore, we of the SNS believe that the proposed solution that we have made in Article 26 is significantly more correct and in agreement with the laws already passed in the area of justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30529	Thirty seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 27th amendment was submitted by a group of 20 MPs of the Progress Serbia Group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 28th Amendment was submitted by a group of 20 MPs of the Progress Serbia Group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Palalic, Milica Radovic and Miroslav Petkovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Miroslav Petkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30530	Madam Vice-President, Madam Malovic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is one of the amendments submitted by the Democratic Party of Serbia, which we were sure would be accepted, and I think we understood in the principle debate about it, but when we saw the government report this morning we simply couldn't believe that this amendment was not adopted. After four years of studies, the young lawyer speaks either to the President of the Court or to some law firm in which he will conduct a traineeship and conduct two years of hard training, from buying bureks, writing the first lawsuit, complaints, making judgments and all. Most colleagues must have gone through it and it's certainly a good school in every way. Those more valuable before the end, before the end and two years of traineeship begin to prepare a judicial exam; those who have other obligations after a traineeship have been carried out enter into a serious process of preparing a judicial exam, which lasts three, four, five, and for God's sake and six months. They pass a judicial exam, and then they're totally ready to enroll in the lawyer's directory or wait after a certain period of getting a working experience to be elected judges. With this law on the judicial academy, you all those people who passed the judicial exam, which has so far been the crown of some training and education in our system, after which you get virtually all the conditions to be elected judge or law enforcement profession, you place them in a position to take an entrance exam at the judicial academy. This is provided for by this Article 28 (and also by Article 29) – reception conditions for initial training. So, after college, a judicial exam, two years of experience, he goes to initial training for almost two years. I really don't know what's going to be provided for by the law on the judicial exam, but we think this should be deleted from this article. It is totally unacceptable to explain the government, where it says it is required to pass a judicial exam and to have a working experience. Well, nobody slows it down. The only thing we're arguing about in this is that after I passed the judicial exam, I'm taking an entrance exam for initial training at the judicial academy, and I've been doing it for another two years. In total, after about ten years, a few years of getting a job experience, I get a condition to be elected judge. When I say "be," I mean all the people who will go through this process. We have proposed to delete the judicial exam from this article, these other conditions are correct, or in a different way to define the passing of the judicial exam itself. We find it totally unacceptable for people with certain knowledge, certain experience, which they have passed, as mentioned here, in the area of civil, criminal and criminal law. The entrance exam also predicts the knowledge of the general culture. Of course, it's the only difference between a judicial exam and this admission exam, which is taxed here to be passed and some general culture test. Believe me, that's what it takes. Maybe that's what law should provide for a judicial examination. I had a chance to see, to hold in my hands a solution in the name of the people, brought by the judge, although chosen before 2000, in principle, which I'm afraid will work this time. There's no common culture, no academy, no anything, just not born for that job when she could do it. No one can convince me. I like to say that you can't make a violin out of a beech. So someone who's not up for the job can't do the job. So I ask you to accept this amendment, that the judicial exam from this article be deleted here. Be assured that people who have acquired the condition to pass a judicial exam and do so can do so in a quality way. I think it's really humiliating that they're taking some initial training and taking an entrance exam for the academy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30531	Two minutes and fifteen seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 28th of the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30532	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, when you presented your colleague, Munjic, you reminded and asked in a vague way whether we were in favour of judicial reform. Now, on behalf of the SRS Parliamentary Group, I would definitely and openly say to you -- yes, the SRS Parliamentary Group is for judicial reform, and not only in the area of justice but also in all areas of life. Simply, in the last twenty years, for various reasons, something because of our influence, something because of the influence on the side and other opportunities, we lived in some unsettled conditions. It is necessary to reform all segments of our lives, but the area of justice especially deserves to be taken into account, because it is the judges who have the right to restrict the freedom of citizens of Serbia. If so, then we feel that reforming the judiciary is necessary. We could have had a better choice of judges in the National Assembly, as we have so far and it is still so, or it would be better through the High Council of the Judiciary, or the State Council of the Prosecutors, when it comes to public prosecutors. It was said that the choice of judges in the National Assembly was too much of a policy influence. We could agree, but there are 250 MPs sitting here, the entire territory of Serbia is covered, so the MPs knew well the candidates for the judges or candidates for the presidents of the courts and were able to professionally check their merits and contribute to the development of the judicial system, i.e. in the exercise of prosecutorial and judicial functions. There may be a more professional choice of judges, when it comes to the High Council of the Judiciary, or the Public Prosecutors, when it comes to the State's Chief Prosecutors, but given the composition of the Supreme Council of the judiciary or the State Council of Prosecutors, it is obvious to conclude that there are too many members who are directly influenced by certain political parties. You are not, at least not publicly, a member of any political party, but if you have in mind whose proposal you have been elected to as justice minister, then it is concluded that you cannot be completely free of the influence of the party that has put you in that place or proposed. At this point, I do not claim that you are always doing certain tasks for the party's account, but when it comes to more serious reforms, as someone proposed by the party, you will not be able to get rid of it completely. A colleague of Gordana Pop-Lazic submitted an amendment to Article 28. Proposal for a law on the judicial academy. Article 28 says: “The conditions for admission to initial training are: a judicial examination is passed,” we do not have intervention in this respect, “the fulfilment of general conditions for working in state authorities”, and we suggest that it remain, but the removal of indent 3 is proposed — “the accepted exam for initial training”. Therefore, in Article 28, the indent 3 is deleted where it is said to be – passed the admission exam. One of the conditions required for a particular person to be able to attend initial training at the judicial academy is the initial exam for initial training. If a ‘legislative examination’ stands, the illogically ‘received admission test’ is because it minimises the legal exam. You know, as I know, a judicial exam is one complex exam and can't in any case a admission exam to be measured or to mean anything other than the possibility of manipulation or determination... I am starting to assume that there will be many more candidates than the High Council of the Judiciary or the State's Major Prosecutors in a given year that objectively there are needs, namely how many judges to fill certain courts, or public prosecutors. You have probably left this possibility “a passed admission exam, ” for someone can pass a judicial exam in the best possible way, i.e. to show the best knowledge of the area of justice and of all the positive rights that are passed in the course of the judicial exam, but not to pass this admission exam. If that happens, it's a direct consequence of someone's desire to keep such candidates out of training, so they can't perform a judicial function. It's the only reason, and nothing else. I think the amendment submitted by counterpart Gordana Pop-Lazic should be accepted. This would allow for a greater opportunity for quality to come to light and for us to have people highly trained within the framework of judicial functions. I think admission exams are too much, since primary school, high school, college; it's not disputed where it's supposed to be, where it's the only qualification to show who can go on, who can compete, but in addition to the judicial exam, the entrance exam is quite excessive.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30533	Five minutes and forty-five seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 28 of the amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Spasojevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Srdjan Spasojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30534	In the spirit of fellow MPs, Mr. Petkovic and Mr. Peric, we need once again to clarify some things, to tell Serbian citizens that we are overly complicated the situation, a complete selection of future judicial holders. At some point, we'll have a law school, we'll have a judicial exam, we'll have a judicial academy, we've got a High Council -- how much an institution that a man who decides to be a legal holder needs to skip, show great knowledge, which is not controversial. The application of this law should be postponed because there are a large number of people who have enrolled, who have passed a judicial exam and who considered it sufficient to obtain candidate status for the holder of judicial functions. Now, at one point, another instance is being imposed, and then another instance, and all of this is not a guarantee that someone will be elected judge. Madam Minister, when one of the interns comes to court, believe me, six months to a year is absolutely enough to assess whether anyone is fit for a future legal holder. It's exactly in every city, every county court where someone's an intern or some law firm just feels it. I'm afraid this is how we're going to stamp out great talent with rigid legal proposals, we're going to freeze people who are absolutely enough to be the bearers of judicial functions after a judicial trial, because it's going to take another two or three years to complete their training, even if they're going to be elected, whether they won't, etc. Did you think, when you passed a bill like this, that there was an increasing number of female populations in the judiciary? Do you think that someone who graduates from law school and passes a judicial exam, I mean women's populations, should form a family, give birth in this Serbia, where they are born extremely little, and does anyone need to end all of this? Of course, the law provides for a possibility in the judicial academy, they are protected, but an extremely long period is needed for someone to become a judge when it comes to women. I don't think that's correct, I think this law is some kind of discrimination against the family, according to birth, because still, it's certainly going to take seven, eight years for someone to pass all these instances. You know how, in health care it's different – you become a doctor, so when you go to specialization you do the practical part when it comes to family formation, and it goes with some fixed rhythm. That's how it's been so far in the judiciary. As my colleague Peric says, it could be one bad day during that admission exam and it would all fall into the water, and it would waste more time for that candidate to compete in another period. I think the only solution, if you're so much so, as the people would say, is that you're going to pass a law like this, that its application is delayed. It is a lot to bring about this many legal changes in a short period of time when it comes to the judiciary; we have laws on courts, we have a series of laws, all in one year, I'm afraid that this will have adverse consequences when it comes to the justice system.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30535	Two minutes and twenty seconds used by the MP's group. The 29th amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MPs Srdjan Spasojevic and a group of 20 MPs from the Prostrem Group of MPs to Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 30 of the amendment in the same text, MPs Srdjan Spasojevic and a group of twenty MPs of the Group of MPs advanced Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a national emissary Jelena Budimirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30536	Thank you. Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Serbia, we have amendedly proposed to delete Article 30 concerning the case and the programme of admission exams for the training of judges and prosecutors. This member, as well as Art. 28, 29, 31, 32, 32, and many others, are not in the balance with the Law on Judges, the Law on Public Prosecutors, the Law on the Supreme Council of the Judiciary, the Law on the State Council of Prosecutors, which only the judicial authorities are authorised to decide on the rights and obligations of the holders of judicial functions, including their reference to professional training, so that training institutions cannot be authorised to determine the fulfilment of conditions for candidates. Those laws have established that the right and obligation to training on the cost of the Republic of Serbia are subject to judicial functions, assistants and trainees, so that the law cannot be restricted and conditioned by other laws due to the constitutional principle of independence and independence of the judiciary and judicial authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30537	Member of the 31st Amendment in the same text was submitted by MP Srdjan Spasojevic and a group of twenty MPs from the Prosperity Group of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 31 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The 32nd Amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Spasojevic and a group of 20 MPs from the Prosperity Group of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 33rd amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Spasojevic and a group of twenty MPs from the Prosperity Group of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 33 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 34th Amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Spasojevic and a group of 20 MPs from the Prosperity Group of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 35th Amendment was submitted by a group of twenty-nation MPs of the Prosperity Group of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 35th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Natasa Vukkovic and Nenad Konstantinovic. This amendment was accepted by the Government and the Justice Committee. The Legislative Committee has no report, so this amendment, as well as the others, will be voted on in the voting day. Member of the 35th Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. This amendment was adopted by the Government and the Justice and Administration Committee. National MP Sreto Peric wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30538	Article 35. The draft law on the judicial academy discusses in more detail what is being done, which all cases and which are being taught positive rights, i.e. during that initial training are being perfected. This is one of the good ways the SRS Parliamentary Group has made a serious contribution to improving the text of the law and this proposal has been accepted. I just have to say what the difference is with what was proposed in the bill. He says, "The initial training takes two years, starts on 1 October," it is also in the amendment and the bill, "and consists of a theoretical and practical work in the field of civil, criminal and criminal law, as well as in the general and professional culture", that is also in the bill and in the amendment, and Mrs Verica Radeta added more – constitutional law. It is a bit incomprehensible and incomprehensible, if these four disciplines or four branches of the positive regulations are in the initial training programme, which is why constitutional law is left out, when it is known that constitutional law... Given what year of law school studies he's studying, it's impossible to leave him out of training for judges at the judicial academy. This is one of the ways in which the SRS shows that in a practical and professionally justified way it tries to fix this law. A number of amendments have been accepted, but it is certain that some more amendments should have been accepted, so perhaps we could do two, three, and four years to count on this law not to be returned to parliament because of changes and additions. In the event of the amendments submitted by the SRS MPs, at least in the voting day, we will have a situation that we may have amendments and additions to this law at the beginning of next year.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30539	Two minutes and thirty seconds were used from the time of the parliamentary group. With this debate in detail on this amendment, we are finishing our morning work. I'm setting a break by 15.00 hours. At 15.00 hours, we continue to work on the debate in particular, and this is the amendment to Article 35, which was submitted by MP Srdjan Spasojevic. Under this law, we have 34 amendments to discuss. Let me inform you of the time remaining for the parliamentary groups for the afternoon: The New Serbia Parliamentary Group – another three minutes, the Parliamentary Group Forward Serbia – 19 minutes and 50 seconds, the DSS - Vojislav Kostunica - 14 minutes and 25 seconds, the SRS Parliamentary Group - seven minutes and 20 seconds. Presidents and authorised representatives, except for the Progressive Serbia parliamentary group, have at their disposal all the time. Before we stop working for the afternoon, I would like to inform you, on the basis of Article 85, that we will be working after 1800 hours today; we will continue to discuss the point that is on the agenda at that time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30540	We're continuing our work. The minister, by the way, is very close. He'll be here any minute. National MP Srdjan Spasojevic submitted to the 35th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Mr. Savior, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30541	Ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, in Article 35. The draft law on the Judicial Academy in paragraph 3 is proposed that initial training lasts for two years, starts on October 1st and consists of theoretical and practical work in the field of civil, criminal and criminal law, as well as general and professional culture. The amendment I tabled on behalf of the New Serbia Parliament Club in Article 35(3) behind the words "criminal" are added to the words "administrative and commercial". The reason for this amendment is that this academy must provide a more complex education for all future holders of judicial functions and must justify its existence through the coverage of all segments of the legal profession. This amendment is now offering that supplement. I really don't understand why this amendment was not accepted by the Government. We have had an entirely similar situation in previous amendments; of course, it is absolutely acceptable that these amendments are accepted, but it is not seen from the reasons why this amendment is not accepted, why these areas of law, when it comes to administrative and commercial law, did not find a place to educate and educate the staff and students of the Judicial Academy in this initial training. I hope the minister... I'm sorry she's not here right now, I'm sure she'd have a hearing. I believe this amendment is something that really corrects the law and I expect it to be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30542	Thank you. On Article 35... We have a minister coming. We welcome him. The 36th Amendment was submitted by a group of twenty-nation MPs from the Prosperity Group of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 36 of the amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Igor Becic. You want a word after the last one? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30543	I'm sorry, 36th member.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30544	I gave you my word on article 36. Just sign in again.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30545	But not on Mr. Aleksic's amendment, but on the amendment of the Prosperity Group, Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30546	Then first Boris Alexic has a word, so I'll give you a word later. Mr. Alexic, please sign in. He's not here. Sign up then, Mr. Becic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30547	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable citizens, on behalf of the SNS, we have submitted an amendment to Article 36. The bill, where we asked for article 36 to be deleted. The very fact that the Prosperity Group has submitted more than 40 amendments to Serbia and that only in 27 amendments requires that individual members be deleted shows that this is one disastrous law. Article 36. The proposal sets out how to assess the parts of the training carried out in courts and prosecutors, including the distance from the training of users due to the assessment of 1 in part of the training. These provisions are contrary to the laws governing the position of holders of judicial functions, assistants and trainees in courts and prosecutors, who regulate training as a right and obligation, without giving such restrictions, so they cannot be introduced by this law because it would challenge the law guaranteed the right to train and violate the Constitution of guaranteed independence and the independence of the judiciary. At the same time, it should be borne in mind that all persons who are users of training, other than trainees, are subject to a judicial examination, which is laid down by law as a condition of competence for the appointment of all judicial functions, so it is not appropriate for persons whose laws recognise the expertise to be assessed by the mentor to be insufficiently evaluated and distanced from training. The Law on the Regulation of Courts in Article 66 provides that an intern who passes a judicial examination with a distinction is to be admitted to a permanent working relationship in the calling of a judicial assistant, and for such a person, the disputed member of the proposal is to receive an insufficient assessment by a person. The proposed solution is also contrary to points 40 and 42 2) of the 2003 Declaration of 4 from the Advisory Council of European Judges on Initial and Permanent Training, which determines that participation in training is not subject to a qualified assessment, i.e. that the assessment during training is not appropriate for countries that are selected by judges from the ranks of experienced lawyers, as objective evaluation methods are applied prior to the appointment, as is the case under the Constitution and the laws of the Republic of Serbia. Other provisions of the Declaration also point to voluntary training and oblige courts to encourage their judges to participate in training. In the light of the proposal, the Proposer is currently calling for that declaration, and accordingly this recommendation must be respected in the same declaration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30548	Thank you. A group of twenty-nation MPs of the Progress Serbia Group submitted to the 37th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 38th Amendment was submitted by a group of twenty-nation MPs of the Prosperity Group of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 39th Amendment was submitted by a group of twenty-nation MPs of the Prosperity Group of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Tomislav Nikolic and Bozidar Delic submitted to the 40th amendment. Mr. Zoran Antic has a word. Here you go. Just sign in, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30549	I'm sorry, I missed the card. I wanted it clean, after a member of 39 finished one area and there were a few amendments the Serbian Progressive Party did not speak of... It refers to the entrance exams, which is in Article 31, the evaluation, the rank-list, the implementation of initial training, the final exam, the final evaluation, means, all those areas and all those institutes that SNS considers to be in collegiate with existing laws on justice, meaning, with laws on judges, prosecutors, the High Council of Justice. That was one of the reasons. In this article 39, we have a situation that, as we have already said, we agree with the initial attitudes and that those words that are unnecessary in this text mean "which contains an assessment for each part of the training and final evaluation", they are deleted. In this way, we would, in our opinion, get one significantly more quality law, and this member is in the function of all of those institutes that we have proposed in the previous discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30550	Thank you. That was on Article 39. National MPs Tomislav Nikolic and Bozidar Delic submitted together to the 40th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 40 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric, who wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30551	Thank you. From Art. The conditions for initial training are set out on 26 to 41. Article 40 regulated the obligations and rights of users of initial training. The intervention we have submitted to Article 40(1) refers to the following. Article 1 The bill reads: “The user of initial training is based on a working relationship for a certain time at the academy for 30 months, starting from 1 October of the year in which he was admitted as a beneficiary of initial training.” We have suggested that Article 40, paragraph 1, reads: “The user of initial training can establish a working relationship at a certain time at a 30 - month academy, starting from October 1st in the year in which he was accepted as a beneficiary of initial training. ” Why did we propose such an amendment? Because it may occur that the user of initial training is working on some other jobs, where his cash compensation and receipts are higher than that provided for in Article 40, and here it is said, if it comes from the basic court, that he is entitled to a cash compensation of 70% of the average receipt of the judge of the basic court. You're not suggesting that users of initial training be necessarily employed in courts, are you? They can also come from other institutions, or other jobs, of course, under exactly the conditions provided for by this law. We therefore believe that in this case it can be defined that the user of initial training can choose whether to receive this fee as a beneficiary of initial training in the academy or to retain the right to compensation from the company, firm or institution from which it comes.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30552	Member of the 40th Amendment was submitted by MP Jorgovanka Tabakovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here, you have a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30553	I'll talk about article 40. Not only about attitude 2, which I have submitted to the amendment, but about Article 40, who, with 13 views, is trying to regulate eight areas, in a way that is not constitutional. I'm using your presence, Madam President, to repeat what I said this morning. It is not right to consider such a law without the position of the Legislative Committee on the compliance of this law with the legal system of the Republic and with the Constitution. So, that common formulation, almost technical, that the Committee has been considering some law and that it has submitted a report, in the jurisdiction of the Legislative Committee, exceeds the technique. Indeed, the Legislative Committee has one fundamental responsibility, where it does not declare proposals in a formal sense, that it has passed the committee. Simply, his work in practice is not only about the fact that the amendment is legally possible, but it is as defined in Article 45 of the Rules of Procedure. I even claim that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, under Article 44, had to, within its jurisdiction, and its competence to assess the principle of application of the Constitution, to assess how much this member and the law is in agreement with the Constitution at all. That's what I'm saying first of all because a member of the 40th defines a candidate to elect judges. If we have laws, which we are considering at this session, where the employer is said to be able to do something, here are provisions explicit, in terms of orders, where it is said: The High Council of the judiciary, or the State's Major Prosecutors, is obliged (meaning, obligation) to propose candidates who have completed their initial training at the Academy. That is why I insist on the unconstitutional nature of this part of the law, where the advantage of training at this academy is given to an explicit order to the promoter, which is illegal, and such an inaccessible advantage where the government's explanation as a proposing, which says it does not dispute, or take away the right to propose to other holders of functions, is a little demeaning of man's logic. So you can't tell anyone – by contesting your proposal, I'm reducing your right to choose. True, you do not dispute the proposal to any body that is competent under the Constitution, but you are making it impossible to choose candidates who are thus proposed, because these have an advantage. And what is explicitly defined, it is said that only if there are no candidates who have completed initial training, the State's Major Prosecutors or the High Council of the judiciary can propose candidates who meet some other general conditions for the election. So where training will be done, how much training compensation will be paid, whether it evaluates, proposes and trains the same body, it is really not appropriate to be in one of these laws, which presupposes it to create an independent judiciary. Again, this is one of the laws under which we have an apparent crisis of division of power and an attempt to put executive power under its direct influence by judicial authority. This law says it best. The government's saying that the way to choose the board of directors will reform the amendments, that it reduces the registered and recognised influence of the executive government, and that no amendment has been changed, says that the government has no intention of giving up in any way of this law, and that it should be honored by it. I am convinced that the Constitutional Court will be the first to finish the next job with an assessment of the constitutionality of the Public Information Act, and possibly by assessing the constitutionality of that law on expropriation, where we had a conversation on the pipeline, where it can be decided, and by law. If we hadn't passed the laws on a shortcut, in a hurry, and they weren't a reflection of the political ambition of individual ministers, we wouldn't have met this situation. Most seriously, I ask that these warnings be taken into account for article 40, and the other views will never come forward again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30554	In order for the committees to function, they need to have a majority. I have information that there have been sick MPs from the parliamentary majority who have been unable to take part, so I pray that when issues of this importance are quorum for work, all those MPs who think as Mrs Tabakovic. National MP Jelena Budimirovic submitted to the 40th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 40th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Antic and Stefan Zankov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 40 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Babic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Mr. Granny, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30555	On the basis of Article 147. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group Advanced Serbia - SNS, I have tabled an amendment to Article 40. Proposal for a law on the Judicial Academy. Namely, paragraphs 8, 9 and 11, which are set out in this amendment, the obligation of the High Council of the Judiciary and the State Council of Prosecutors to propose primarily candidates who have completed basic training, according to a ranking proposed by the institution, and that the other candidates may only be proposed for the election if there are no candidates who have completed their basic training. This legislative solution does not comply with Articles 4, 147, 154 and 165. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and it does not comply with the Law on Judges, the Law on Public Prosecutors, the Law on the High Council of the judiciary and the Law on the State Council of Prosecutors. The constitution and provisions of these laws have laid down the exclusive jurisdiction of the Supreme Council of the judiciary and of the State Council of Prosecutors to propose candidates for the selection of judges and deputy public prosecutors, which you hereby abolish. In this way, you impose an obligation on the selection to be made according to the list of candidates established by the institution under direct control of the Executive Authority, or the Ministry of Justice, with candidates and elected by the institution, according to its own rules. In this way, you will virtually take away the right to elect candidates who should propose for the election, which is the right and obligations that you take away from them by the Constitution. In this way, you are also violating the generally accepted rules of international law on the independence and independence of the judicial authority from the legislative and executive, so I urge you once again to accept the amendment of the Serbian Progressive Party in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30556	The 43rd amendment was submitted by a group of twenty-nation MPs from the Prosperity Group of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 45 of the amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's Messenger Mirko Munjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30557	I asked for paragraph 45 of Section 1 to be deleted, and Section 1 states that judges and deputies of public prosecutors who were first elected to the post, and have not completed initial training, are obliged to attend a special programme of permanent training. The government responded that in order to perform their duties more effectively and efficiently, it is necessary that those categories of judges and deputy public prosecutors attend the training. However, I am asking another question here – how can we train those judges who do not comply with the law in their work? How do we train those judges who allow themselves, as president of the electoral commission, to make a certain decision, not to schedule a meeting of the electoral commission, not to hold the meeting and the decision to make? Mr. Minister, I'd like to speak to you, given that what I'm about to say directly applies to your ministry. It's very good that you're here, too. Have you ever had a situation in practice so far, Mr. Minister, that the electoral commission in a local self-government decides not to hold a meeting of the electoral commission to decide on the mandate of a committee? I don't suppose you've had it in practice by now. Did you, Mr. Minister, have in practice another more drastic example to change seven or eight council members in one local self-government without having any election committee meetings? Is that possible in this country? It's possible. Eight councilmen have been changed, Mr. Minister, and no election committee meeting has been held. Although, I can see this isn't touching you. The Lucani Municipality's election committee, led by the municipal court judge in Guca, has decided, Mr Minister, to assign a mandate to one of the committees proposed by an unauthorized person; it has decided not to hold a meeting of the electoral commission. She decided to assign seven more parliamentary mandates before that to the committee, without having held any meetings of the electoral commission. Those decisions were simply made to her for signature, Mr. Minister. This is done in a local self-government - in the municipality of Luciani. Will the Ministry do anything about this? Is it possible that a president of the electoral commission could do such a thing? Mr. Minister, I'm going to present you with this file. I'm going to ask you a parliamentary question about this, and I'm going to ask your ministry to take certain steps, if you really want to do it legally. If it's your intensity, and you always say it is, that everywhere and in every place legal and proper, we'll see what you do and then we'll let the public know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30558	Members of the 45th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Tomislav Nikolic and Jorvanka Tabakovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Mrs Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30559	We have requested the removal of Article 1 of Article 45 in which judges and public prosecutors who are first elected to the post are also required to attend a special programme of permanent training, and the 3rd position on which the user of the special programme of permanent training (means, the mentioned judges and deputy public prosecutors) will be reduced to 30% during the duration of this programme, based on the decision of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, or the State Council of Prosecutors. First, Article 3, these relationships relating to users of training on the reduction of the volume of work and working time cannot be governed by this law because it is governed by the Law on Judges and the Law on Public Prosecutory. What kind of forest of legal regulations where those who need to implement them can't manage, where the Lex specialis dictates basic law, where laws are mutually in collegiate, where there's really no value in experience, no knowledge, no legal logic, but I guess those recommendations by the executive authority how to apply some law, or what we had recently as a case of agreed justice when the authorities met to see how to postpone the application of the Public Information Act... It is also unacceptable to interpret the way the government interprets international recommendations and rules, and above all the Advisory Council of European Judges, the obligation for those first elected to this post to attend the judicial academy. It's just that we disagree. If the judicial academy, i.e. The Justice Agency, it needs to get the meaning given to it by this law, don't give it any meaning in a way that you really demean those who need to decide on the fundamental rights of a man. She can be involved in publishing various publications and being financed by marketing and various services, will you, as Ministry, be able to supervise this type of work, the legality of work, incomes, etc.? I also mention that article 22 we talked about, not only being financed from the budget, which would be the turn if we wanted an independent judiciary. You can do all of this; you can give importance to members who are on the board of directors from the government, but don't give it any meaning by making people who have experience know how to behave here as champions, with the obligation to join such training. I really think that the minimum change is to delete attitude 3 because of disagreement with the laws on judges and public prosecutors, and to delete attitude 1 because it is simply not appropriate.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30560	Thank you. The 45th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jelena Budimirovic and Zoran Antic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 45 of the amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Spasojevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 46 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Batic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have adopted this amendment. The 46th amendment was submitted by a group of twenty-nation MPs from the Prosperity Group of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 47th amendment was submitted by a group of twenty MPs of the Progress Serbia Group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) A group of twenty MPs of the Progress Serbia Group submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 49th Amendment was submitted by a group of 20 MPs of the Progress Serbia Group. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is wanted by Mr Igor Becic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30561	The Honorable Chairman, I wanted to report to Article 48, but you said "Article 4", so I didn't answer, so I'd like to report to Article 48 anyway. It is another in a series of members of the Law Bill on the Judicial Academy, for which the Prosperity Group of the Serbian Progressive Parties proposes to be deleted, as Article 48 prescribed that judges and prosecutors have mentors, who are obliged to complete a special training programme. The provisions of this article shall be unacceptable for at least three reasons. Judges and prosecutors shall carry out the tasks of measuring the handling of judicial cases in a manner established in accordance with the law and according to the instructions received by the judge, i.e. the prosecutor. For these reasons, it is totally unacceptable to have any other person, whether a mentor, who in any way can influence the work of an assistant past the judge and prosecutor. At the same time, the assistant is a person who is qualified to do the job and does the job professionally, with full responsibility and is not fit to have an obligation during work to be under such supervision. The introduction of a call and obligation of training so-called the mentor, whose subject is merely the establishment of an institution, does not comply with the principles and rules applicable to the adoption of the law. The position of judges and prosecutors is governed by the Law on Judges and the Law on Public Prosecutors, who do not know the concept of mentors, and these provisions are in collegiate with those laws, in particular by establishing the obligation to train, exempt from work and special compensation for the work, which takes place at the working time of judges and prosecutors. The name "mentor" itself is controversial because in Serbian the word does not exist, but it is about "stracism" or jargon, whose use is not allowed in writing this law. The word originates originally in English, when it comes to living languages, and in Serbian the term is called "a counselor", according to all available dictionaries, although it has other possible meanings and translations. Therefore, if this function is already being introduced, the Serbian name, not the foreign one, should be used, especially if it can be translated in several ways. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30562	Thank you. The 50th Amendment was submitted by a group of 20 MPs of the Progress Serbia Group. Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30563	Article 50 shall be governed by a specific training programme. Here's another piece of evidence as to how rhogobatical and technically unexploited this law is, because there are 29 provisions in this law that try (not only this member, but the law) to regulate the adoption of a training programme, which in fact only creates a problem of applying this law in the training work. The terms of paragraphs 4 to 6 of this Article 50 shall provide for the obligation of training, as well as the obligation of the courts to submit a report on the work of assistants and trainees. These are, in fact, provisions that are completely contrary to the laws governing the work of courts and prosecutors. The government's defense is that this is in accordance with Article 125. The law on judges. I claim that they are in part consensual, partly completely opposite, and partly similar. The government cannot, in its explanation, say they are consensual, because this agreement is very different in the parts relating to this training. That's why I think that 50th should be deleted.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30564	Thank you. A group of 20 MPs from the Progress Serbia Group submitted to the 51st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 51st Amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Mr. Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30565	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam President, Mr Dejan Mirovic has submitted an amendment on behalf of the SRS to Article 51. Proposal for a law on the Judicial Academy. Since this is one of the last amendments of the SRS to this law, I must remind you that the Judicial Academy, whether we agree or not, is intended to carry out training and training for the holders of judicial and judicial functions. So I'm just going to repeat what kind of training is provided for in this law: initial training, continuous training, special training programme, voluntary training programme, mentor and lecturer training, special training programme of judge and prosecutoral assistants and trainees. Article 51. The draft law on the Judicial Academy reads: "The training of judicial and prosecutorial staff is organized to acquire knowledge and skills for professional and efficient performance of the affairs". Of course, that's what you're referring to in the case of judicial and prosecutorial functions. Mr Mirovic's amendment reads: "The training of judicial and prosecutorial staff is organised to acquire and restore knowledge", especially here, because the knowledge acquired is not applied in practice or applied in some small extent lags in relation to the necessary knowledge, "the skills and abilities necessary for professional, professional and efficient doing of business". We believe that this is much more precise and better and that this amendment should be accepted as a whole, because it does not fundamentally alter your concept of how you imagined that it should look like law on the Judicial Academy, so it does not directly affect the bodies that you provided for this law. There was a very interesting question here, which is, what will happen to those judges who do not comply with the law? Of course, they don't train. Such judges should be stopped with further training, at any stage and level; such judges should be resolved and that is the only way and the cure. In addition to this proposal, related to unconscious judges, we suggest that this amendment by the Serbian Radical Party be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30566	The 52nd amendment was submitted by a group of twenty-nation MPs from the Prosperity Group of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Mrs. Tabakovic wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30567	Article 51 and Article 52, which we have an amendment on, are actually talking about the training of prosecutor and court staff. The present gentleman, who cannot respond, must agree with me that the Law on the Organisation of Courts in Article 69 of the Judicial Staff treats him in a different way, and that the term "indemnity staff" is completely unknown to the law on the organisation of this body. If the law and the parts are abolished, or laws that speak of courts and prosecutions, these laws on whose ignorance of terms or of different matter are not abolished... I really don't understand there's a way to solve this. Article 52, as well as Article 51, should be deleted. Indeed, citizens will wonder how the prosecution and judicial staff have done these jobs so far. Or from the moment we establish the academy and declare their skills to the arts, they'll suddenly bloom roses and it'll be all right? Modernism, reputation, misrepresentation, speed is not good enough when such important laws are made.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30568	The 53rd amendment was submitted by a group of twenty-nation MPs from the Prosperity Group of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 55 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radovan Radovan Radovanovic. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 58 of the amendment was submitted by Parliament MP Olena Papuga. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 59 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 59 of the amendment was submitted by Parliament MP Olena Papuga. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) A group of twenty MPs of the Progress Serbia Group submitted to the 60th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 2. The Rules of Procedure, the amendment to Article 61, was submitted by the Committee on Justice and Administration. The proposer's representative accepted this amendment. Since we've completed a search of the bill in particular, does anyone want to give the final word? No, I don't. I hereby conclude the examination of the draft law on the Judicial Academy, in particular. After we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in detail, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 7th item of the agenda – PROPOSAL OF THE SECURITY OF DATA (specificity) I hereby inform that I am in accordance with Article 88(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, in addition to the representatives of the proposings Mrs Malovic, Minister of Justice and Milan Markovic, Minister of State Administration and Local Self-Government, called for this part of the session to be attended by Slobodan Homen, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice and Jovan Ćosic and Zlatko Petrovic, head of justice. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs: Olena Papuga, Jovan Palalić, Milica Vojić-Marković, Milos Aligrudić, Miroslav Petkovic, together Tomislav Nikolic, Jorgovanka Tabaković, Zoran Antić, Veroljub Arsić, Zoran Babić, Igor Bečić, Jelena Budimirović, Bozidar Delić, Stefan Zankov, Otto Kišmarton, Milan Knezevic, Saša Maksimović, Zoran Mašić, Predrag Mijatović, Ljiljana Miladović, Borisa Peljević, Mileta Poscurica, Gojko Radić, Mićo Rogović, Vučeta Tošković and Dragan Čolić, Aleksandra Janković, Dragan Stevanovic, Aleksandar Martinović, Marina Raguš, Vesna Pošić, Judita Popović, Nebošča Popović, Nebošiča Janić, Mirić and Mirić. You have received a report from the Justice and Administration Committee, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The People's MP, Olena Papuga, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Jovan Palalic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milica Vojic-Markovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by the Government to Articles 2 and other members of the bill stating the word ‘approval’. The Justice and Administration Committee has accepted the amendment. The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Palalic, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Milos Aligrudic and Miroslav Petkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 5th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30569	Ladies and gentlemen, the Serbian Progressive Party has submitted a dozen amendments to the data confidentiality law. It seems to us that, by accepting these amendments, we would still have a better quality law and that this matter, which has not been fully arranged before, has not been fully regulated. In particular, as regards Article 5, it refers to information considered classified. We believe that there was a need for clarification in this article, that it was necessary to make it clear that it was data aimed at protecting the interests of the Republic of Serbia, in accordance with the law. In this way, we intervened, that instead of what is collecting and harmonising with the law, one qualification that is quite general, we came to a particular point that is significantly better quality and that reflects the essence of this law in our opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30570	Thank you. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Palalic, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Milos Aligrudic and Miroslav Petkovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Mrs. Vojić-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30571	Madam President, the DSS Parliamentary Group has tabled a series of amendments to this bill. One of them is the amendment to Article 6, where, in paragraph 1: "Secret information is kept and used in accordance with the safeguard measures prescribed by this law, by a regulation adopted under this law and by an international agreement" following the word "this law and" we add the word "confirmed". So it's not just that it's prescribed, it has to be confirmed, because it's international agreements. These agreements, first of all, must be here in this congregation confirmed. What is interesting, in an explanation of why the amendment has not been accepted, is that it is not necessary for everything to be confirmed in the congregation. The essence of what we were saying here yesterday as DSS MPs is that yesterday we had a ratification of agreements and contracts, we practically had 26 such ratifications here in the Assembly, and today you're telling us it's not necessary for them to be confirmed. It is completely unclear why you do not accept the amendments that we have submitted, because we have submitted really good amendments to which we are changing what is obviously a major failure in this law. But when we saw the arguments you wrote to us, which is why the amendments weren't accepted, we saw that you didn't make such an oversight in the law by accident, but that you intended to hide the unhappiness, abuse, corruption and crime, to protect acts that officials obviously want to hide, not to make this code of classified information quality. That is why we do not understand that this kind of thing, which is completely clear – all contracts must be confirmed here – you do not accept. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30572	The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Jankovic and Dragan Stevanovic in the same text. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have accepted the amendment. The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Palalic, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Milos Aligrudic and Miroslav Petkovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30573	President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is an extremely important law, which has also caused a lot of controversy in principle, and in a large number of its provisions, it affects its application to produce serious consequences under the human rights situation of citizens, but also the security of the Republic of Serbia. In this previous part, when it comes to amendments concerning what is a secret and how it is marked a secret, we have seen that the part concerning Serbia's co-operation with other countries and the definition of what is a foreign secret data has a lot of uncertainty and a lot that can be applied to create problems, when it comes to the possibility that citizens and the highest state authorities know and control how the Republic of Serbia exchanges secret information with other countries. It is truly amazing that foreign classified information is not considered the data that are legally trafficked between the Republic of Serbia and the other state, which leads to the conclusion of the contract... does not consider a contract ratified in the National Assembly. It is simply not possible to explain this fact, except that the state of Serbia is entering contractual relations, specifically the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and that it hides it from the public and the National Assembly as the highest representative of citizens. I will take just one example, these are the relations that the state of Serbia has established with EULEX in Kosovo and Metohija. We have no idea what secret data is, what data are being exchanged, because such an agreement has never been in the National Assembly, nor has the National Assembly discussed it, and we have a situation in which the mission in the area of Kosovo and Metohija acts against the state of Serbia. Article 9 refers to persons authorised to determine the confidentiality of data. We have highlighted a very big problem in defining these persons, especially as the number of those persons is expanding beyond what the most direct state authorities need to establish state policy and have concrete importance in defining the state security of the Republic of Serbia. We are coming into a situation that the presidents of the municipalities, the mayors, as it is said here -- "public government officials", will be able to define something as a secret information that is relevant to national security and that identical cases that can occur in different cities and municipalities are, in terms of degree of secrecy, defined differently. Indeed, outside the circle of the National Assembly, the Government, the President of the Republic absolutely no longer needs to spread the circle of authorized persons to make something known by secret information. You'll bring complete chaos. Please accept this amendment. Through a number of other amendments that we have submitted, concerning this issue, we have defined the number of those persons who are authorized to define it. In any case, that number should be narrowed down, the possibility of various local authorities dealing with national security. And this is how we're in trouble because of this government itself, as it deals with national security, and all we need is for the presidents of the municipalities to do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30574	Thank you. Time over two minutes. Do you want from the time of the parliamentary group, since you are an authorised representative? Thank you. Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Jankovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mrs. Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30575	I was surprised that you accepted that amendment to Article 6, but I am not surprised that you do not accept the amendment that I have submitted and where Article 9 paragraph 2 point 5 should be deleted, so point 6) becomes point 5. The point is, in fact, that attitude 3 is changed and reads: “The authorized persons of item 2 of point 5 of this article cannot transfer powers to other persons. ” Why? As point 4 of Article 2 of the amendment provides that the authorised person shall be the head of the public authority and point 6 of the Authority, who, after the adoption of this amendment, would become point 5), that the authorised person may be the person employed by the public authority who has been designated to do so in writing by the Head of the Authority, I consider that under the conditions of reduction of the number of employees in the state authorities, the economic unwarranted employment of another person, who would have been elected, appointed or appointed a official, when there is a person already employed in the public authority. So, gentlemen of the government, decide whether the canon of savings is in effect or not, or whether it's a canon of savings only for those who are politically inadequate.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30576	Thank you. Parliamentarians Jovan Palalic, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Milos Aligrudic and Miroslav Petkovic submitted the 10th amendment together. Mrs. Milica Vojic-Markovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30577	I will read Article 10(1). ‘The authorised person referred to in Article 9(2) of this Act shall determine the confidentiality of the information when it is created, i.e. when the public authority begins to carry out the work resulting from the creation of the classified information’. Item 2, which we propose to delete: “Extremely from the position of the 1st member, the authorised person may determine the confidentiality of the data and subsequently, when the criteria laid down by this law are met. ” Simply, we stress this word “later, ” because there is something in this country called legal security. This laid down provision is totally incomprehensible and unacceptable because it is just giving birth to a question of respect for legal certainty. What, namely, happens to data that meet such criteria, but previously, based on the Law on the availability of information of public importance, are made available to the public? In this case, is such information treated within the meaning of this law and how can other persons be subsequently denied the receipt of information already received by some persons under the Access of Information Act? So you had absolutely no idea that you had some laws that preceded what you brought. You've completely forgotten there's something called legal security. It's impossible to do what you've suggested here in Section 2. That's why we, completely logically, felt that he needed to be erased. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30578	The 10th Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Jankovic, who wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30579	It is a practical continuation of the previous amendment and the continuation of what the colleague was talking about. In Article 10(4), the words ‘authorised person’ shall be replaced by the words ‘Manufacturer’. This proposal for a law provided that a person who is employed, i.e. who performs certain tasks in the public authority, was obliged to notify, within the framework of their work tasks, or powers, a person who could be classified as a secret person. So, again, there's a bunch of people piling up and they're hiring... It's probably based on that non-poustic principle, very present in various ministries, there's more daughters, aunts, sisters, godmothers, so there's a need for some new authorized faces to appear. But since we are in a real crisis, I believe that once we have a person who is employed in a particular public authority, we should simply give him authority, and it still corresponds to the head of the public authority. So we really need to be less hypocritical to the citizens of Srije, because if, for example, we're predicting the release of 600 journalists from the NK region in the Public Service, let's think about why 600 new people would now be employed here, who are responding to the intentions of this government.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30580	The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Palalic, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Milos Aligrudic and Miroslav Petkovic. Mrs. Donka Banovic wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30581	I'll use group time because I'm not a signer of the amendment. Article 11 discusses how a decision is taken to determine the degree of confidentiality of information. Of course, that decision is made on the basis of the assessment provided for in Article 10 of this Law. It is also intended to mark the document with a code of secrecy, which is also provided for by this law. It is further said that the determination of the degree of confidentiality of the data is made in writing and that the decision must contain an explanation which makes it considered that a certain degree of secrecy should be placed on that particular document or information. But what the promoter failed to write here and say in the law is that this decision, which, of course, also contains an explanation for which secrecy is foreseen, must bear the mark of secrecy. So if this stays like this, that decision and the whole argument aren't secret, even though the data that the decision is referring to is a code of secrecy, it's a secret, so this is completely non-synchronized.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30582	Thank you. The 13th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group of Serbia. Mr. Sasa Maksimovic wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30583	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment submitted by the SNS Group reads - Article 13 is deleted. The draft law, which reads as follows: ‘Extremely from Article 1, the information shall be considered classified if the document containing the information is marked only by a degree of secrecy’. Of course, Section 3 becomes the position of the 2nd member. The Government has not accepted this amendment, explaining that, in certain cases, it may be accepted as an exception that a particular document contains only a degree of secrecy mark, but not the other elements provided for in Article 13(1). The bill and that, in fact, this situation will be regulated by the adoption of a sublegal act. Although this bill clearly defines that any document containing classified information must be marked by a degree of secrecy, a method of termination of secrecy, data on an authorised person and information on a public authority authority, you are allowing yourself to ignore this member, therefore, Article 13 and Article 2 with which Article 13 completely loses its applicability and meaning. In order for this member's useful value to exist, I suggest you accept the amendment of the Serbian Progressive Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30584	The 13th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Palalic, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Milos Aligrudic and Miroslav Petkovic. Mr. Jovan Palalic wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30585	Amendment 13 actually treats, and thus deals with our parliamentary group in this amendment, the position of the Government when it comes to a document containing classified information and the way the Government participates in the process of identifying the secrecy of data. We are still in principle debate saying that the government's position in this law is extremely ambitious. On the one hand, and we see it in Article 13, and even in Article 14, the government's powers extend beyond any measure. It's simply that great powers are given, because the government's regulation of the way and the process of marking the secrecy of the data is something that represents a great authority of the government, especially that I am a law to a good extent that regulates this whole process. On the other hand, when it comes to the government and the National Security Council, you have quite the opposite. Under the Law on General Administrative Procedure, on State Administration and all regulations governing the position of state administration, it would be logical for the Government to propose the Director of the Council, and not - we here have a situation that the Director of the Council cannot be elected without the opinion of the National Security Council. On the one hand, you have an extension of the government's jurisdiction beyond any measure, and on the other hand you have a narrowing of the government's jurisdiction. It is logical, according to the regulations of the Republic of Serbia, that the government has the authority to appoint a director of the Council, which should be part of it. That is why, in this amendment, we have proposed to delete the part giving authority to the Government to prescribe a way of handling the confidentiality of the data, or documents, because to a good extent the whole procedure is contained in this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30586	Thank you. Member of the 14th amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Mr. Dragan Stevanović wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30587	I'll use the MP's time. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, just now one of the fellow MPs said that the government's intention to make the law as it is is - thin, superficial and unspeakable. It seems to me that even the fact that government representatives, at least those who can accept our arguments, as firm and stable as they are, don't sit here today in a debate with us saying that in principle the government doesn't really care about this matter seriously. The Serbian Radical Party has pointed to these things many times so far. There's not much will to change that. When it comes to this law, we have submitted an amendment to Article 14. It refers to the degree of secrecy and the content of the data. Namely, in paragraph 3. The government, i.e. the proposer, predicted that the criteria for determining the level of secrecy of the "state secret" and "secret secret" were set by the government, with previous opinions from the National Security Council. The amendment provided for the government to be obliged to obtain the opinion of the committee responsible. In principle, in principle, we focused our story on the fact that the government is very tending wherever it could go around and out of this law parliamentary control did so. This is not only the case with this law; the whole concept of the government's operation and the executive government in Serbia is to move away, get out of parliamentary control, or the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Of course, we didn't predict here that the Assembly would define those criteria. We predicted that, as well as the Council, the Assembly would give its opinion, that is, to the board of directors. The opinion, everyone knows, is not binding to anyone, but it is not bad for those representing citizens of the Republic of Serbia to have an indirect opportunity not so much to impose their position on those who will define criteria, but that the Assembly through the board of directors has the opportunity to get acquainted with the government's intentions, because this is about state secrets and data that have the designation "trepidally confidential". I will remind you that this law defines both one and another degree of secrecy of information, if it is not treated adequately, that this results in the fact that the damages are either irreparable or difficult in the Republic of Serbia. That's why I find the whole story unacceptable for the government to give and the committee in charge of this court or its opinion on it. After all, the court and that opinion will again be the choice of the political majority and the will of the political majority, in that committee the government's will could not be questioned, but for the government it was a problem that parliament, and then the public could indirectly get to know, possibly, some of the bad or inappropriate intentions of those who would bring criteria. Gentlemen of the government, you're in your explanation for refusing this amendment, saying that the government is competent to pass sublegal acts to enforce the law. As for the control of the National Assembly, this issue is governed by Article 124. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia under which the Government is responsible to the National Assembly for the execution of acts, etc. My question to you who represent the Government is – is that so? The fact is that the government is sending laws into this assembly and the government is getting laws from this congregation. Instead of being obliged to apply these laws, she makes the first jokes with those laws, she doesn't respect them first, and she doesn't manage them. If I were right, I would show on a one-banal case, which concerns exactly one public authority that will apply this law and will be directly involved in the application of this 14-member, which is BIA. I will show how ready this republican body is to be governed by the laws, to respect them and to have an obligation both to the government and to the Assembly. Here is a document sent to the Assembly on July 8th. It presents a report by the budgetary inspection on the financial operations of the authorities, which are budget beneficiaries, i.e. spending budget funds. Of the 65 institutions where the controls were carried out, among them is certainly the Security Information Agency, where the budgetary inspection found certain irregularities, this is part of these irregularities, and now I'm going to read them. So this is the official state body's report: "The procedure for public procurement of goods and services and works is not carried out under the procedure provided for by the Public Procurement Act and other regulations governing public procurement. Official travel orders shall be filed after the journey has been completed and shall not contain all the essential elements of the order, and the reports of the journey carried out shall not be attached, contrary to Article 8. Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 December 2013 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 2111/2005 (OJ L 348, 30.12.2013, p. 1). Regulations of the Government of the Republic of Serbia on budgetary accounting. The Agency concluded work contracts for the performance of the Agency, which are systematised in the Regulation on the internal organisation and systematization of BIA posts and on the basis of which it paid 1,780,950 dinars, resulting in its failure to comply with the provisions of Article 199 of Article 1(1). Labour law and Article 36(3). Budgetary system law. The registration of business changes in the accounts shall not be carried out in accordance with the Budget Accounting Regulation. “ Now we need to accept your reasoning as to who is in charge of law enforcement, who needs to be accountable to whom and who is obliged and obliged to respect the Constitution of this state. This is unfortunately not the only Republic body that did not comply with the laws and regulations adopted by the Government and this Assembly, there is also the Ministry of Science, the Republic Telecommunications Agency, the Republic Development Institute, the Ministry of Youth and Sports, the Republic Sports Institute, the Republic of the Reserve Directorate, the Republic Public Defence, the Republic Fund PIO, the Republic Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia. Now we need to believe in the control function of this parliament, which is under the conductor's stick of this ruling majority, we need to believe in the application of the laws that the government is sending to this assembly, and the authorities that are in charge of these same governments don't respect them. That is why we felt not so much that the Republic, or Assembly Security Committee, should be given the opportunity to impose its political opinion on these criteria, but we were intent (and we would find it odd if the congregation majority did not accept it) that the Assembly as indirect... Or that the public, that civilian control of the treatment procedures of this data should be present in order to get to know the public (mainly the MPs and then the public in this country) what happens to the data that has the designation "state secret" and "extremely confidential". I repeat, "state secret" and "secret secret" are not matters that concern only the assembly majority, these are things that concern both the positions and the opposition, because they also refer to the constitutional order of this state, to its legal order and certainly to its security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30588	Thank you. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Palalic, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Milos Aligrudic and Miroslav Petkovic. Mr. Jovan Palalic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30589	This amendment refers to the position of the Government when it comes to identifying the degree of secrecy, and also to the previous Article 13, where we intervened with the amendment when it comes to the possibility of the Government to prescribe the way and procedure of identifying the confidentiality of the data. In these positions, the government sees all the contradictions of this law and, let's say, the wandering of legislators when it comes to state authorities, all with the aim of giving as much jurisdiction as possible, on the one hand, which are essential, when it comes to the management of the database, which will later be done by the Council, moved outside the government, and on the other hand given some powers that are absolutely not compatible with the law, nor should they have them. Article 14 empowers the Government to lay down criteria for determining the degree of secrecy of the "state secret", "classified", "confidential", "confidential" and "internal". We've seen in Article 9 who's authorized persons to mark some information with a secret. Among other things, there is the President of the National Assembly and the President of the Republic. When we talk about the division of power, it is really unimaginable that the Government of the Republic of Serbia is closer to determining the criteria for determining the degree of secrecy of those data concerning those authorised persons. We have a confusion that is in no way in the spirit of the declared principle of division of power. Why would the President of the National Assembly, the President of the Republic or those authorised persons, the public authorities, likely to be accepted by this Parliament, which will bring complete chaos in the application of this law, why would they have to act on the criteria prescribed by the Government? This absolutely shouldn't be the government's jurisdiction and we in our amendment predicted that it should be deleted. It's particularly interesting that the government has to get the opinion of the National Security Council here. The National Security Council appears on various occasions. You will see, wherever the key issues are, the National Security Council is the one who wonders – and when it comes to degrees of secrecy, and when it comes to the appointment of the Director of the Council and a number of other things. We think you've put too much confusion here and upside down. You've given the government authority, and on the other hand you've taken in other parts that matter. In particular, in this case, you have violated the principle of division of power. The government can't prescribe the criteria, the government can't regulate the procedure. It's not something she should be dealing with. That is why our amendment foretold that these views in Article 14 were deleted.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30590	Thank you. The 15th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Palalic, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Milos Aligrudic and Miroslav Petkovic. Mrs. Vojić-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30591	Thank you, Madam President. I must also draw attention to the citizens of Serbia and to fellow Members of Parliament to speak here in the wind. The Minister's gone. In Article 15, paragraph 1, which reads as follows: "The document containing the foreign secret information retains the classification of the degree of secrecy which is identified in a foreign country or international organisation", we have subsequently stuck it and added "a classification of the degree of confidentiality established by the approved international agreement on the basis of which such cooperation takes place. “ If the minister were here, as he is not, we would have to draw attention to several very important things. The provision given in the bill is quite fine if we have a situation in which, for example, the Republic of Serbia was supplied by another foreign country or an international organisation, but you forgot what you wrote in this same law in Article 2(3). Furthermore, in the same bill, which appears to be completely different at the moment, you say that as a secret data, a data that is generated in the co-operation of the Republic of Serbia with other countries is also being determined in accordance with international agreements. We have added to you from the DSS - contracts. You further say in this Article 16 that such information also retains the classification of the degree of secrecy established by that other State. It's amazing that the government of this country is giving, and it's talking about partnering co-operation, which means that you have the same rights as some other foreign country... You still believe that such a level of secrecy should be determined by that other state. That's amazing. The question is, why did you decide on a solution like this? What are you, in fact, amening a solution like this? The foreign state determines the degree of secrecy of the information in a situation where we are a partner to that foreign country as far as getting this information. I simply urge you, President, to call the minister here. These are very significant laws, this is a very significant amendment to this law, and it would be a turn even if it told us why it was defined for such a solution. This is how we play deaf phones. We're talking to you, you're looking at us and nothing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30592	Thank you. The minister must be in progress, but he'll be here. I'll call him. The 16th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Palalic, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Milos Aligrudic and Miroslav Petkovic. Mrs. Donka Banovic wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30593	Thank you, Madam President. When it comes to Minister Markovic, you often play an ungrateful role in explaining why he is absent at a time when, among other things, amendments are being discussed. When we speak in detail, then it is very important that the minister is there because he can accept our amendment after reason or at least explain to us why he decided on this solution that we are challenging. It seems that Minister Markovic does not like this assembly very much; he is very often authorised, and then he does not sit in the hall. Or it's hard for him to listen to criticism, I don't know. This amendment concerns Article 16 and Article 16 refers to a time limit on the confidentiality of information. There are several points there, he says – the secrecy of the data ends with the date set out in the document; the occurrence of an event set out in the document containing the secret information; it may cease with the expiry of the law of a given deadline, recalling secrecy and if the information is made available to the public. What we're arguing about is this second attitude. We suggest he deletes himself. You suggest that an authorized person can change the way that is determined to cease the confidentiality of information if there are reasonable reasons, in accordance with the law. We find this solution unacceptable. To look only at the established reasons, who will determine whether these grounds for the end of secrecy are indeed established? That's one thing. Why would an authorized person be given such freedom that he could take off the mark of secrecy without doing so under this law? The termination of a code of secrecy or confidentiality of data must be regulated exclusively by law, not by any free will or by its assessment of whether or not the grounds for the termination of secrecy have been established. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30594	Mr. Vladan Batic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30595	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the DHSS, I support the proposal to pass this law because it would mean abandoning the ancient concept of "Balkan spy" by Ilija Cvorovic in these areas. I am interested in practical application, so that there is no dead letter left on paper, as well as many laws, as well as the famous law on lustration, which was the first necessary and elemental thing to do when moving from a one-party to a multiparty system. Will the institutions envisioned by this law have a destiny similar to that of the Council on Combating Corruption, the Commissioner for Public Information, the Anti-Monopolitan Commission, the Committee for the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, etc., which are like the 13th Pig? I'm interested in concrete effects. If there are, then this is a capital shift. However, it seems to me that we often keep quiet some of the basic things that are generally known, but someone wants to cover them up, so the public doesn't see them. Let's say, here's a few details. Many people in key state functions are filled with the mouth of successful effects of fighting corruption and crime. Let's see how someone else sees it, how, say, "Transparency International", or how world institutions look at our position in terms of perception of corruption, where we are again at 83rd place in the world, noting that we have lost at least three billion euros, because many companies that wanted to invest in these areas, because of such a situation, because of enormous corruption, did not want to invest anymore. If it's comforting that we were at 85 in 2008, and now we're in 83rd place, I don't think that's good. That's why these things need to be made public, completely transparent. We need to raise our voice, not Freedom House, the analytical service of the British Economist, the World Economic Forum, etc. Or, to deal with another segment – the degree of competitiveness of this country. We're back at the bottom. Or, thirdly, even more dramatic – how many people in this country are on the verge of existence, on the verge of hunger? Some analyses say 700,000 people. You see, it's kind of secret, and it needs to be available to everyone, it needs to be absolutely public. Or, here's a picanteria: the other day we had a debate here in the principle of copyright law and related rights; it is envisaged that the rights of the author, interpreter, performer as a collective, as a colchos protects only one collective body, so on. author's agency. So let's ask ourselves, why is that? To ask a well-intentioned question – does anyone at the very top of the government in this country have any action in the authoring agency? I repeat, he's not the president of the state, but he's at the very top of the government. Is that why they can't have the rights of performers, interpreters or authors to protect themselves through another organization? So, I repeat again, I've just cited a few examples that seem to seem to be banal, but they seem pretty alarming. So let's do these alarming things to make available to the general public, and that way we'll show that this story of some kind of mystery and some secrets is something that belongs to the past. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30596	Parliamentarians Jovan Palalic, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Milos Aligrudic and Miroslav Petkovic submitted the 20th amendment together. Mr. Palalic wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30597	This Member shall address the issue of extending the time limit for keeping the information confidential. It is amazing that the legislator solves some issues, spreading again, for what reasons, the government's jurisdiction and in fact introducing the government as an authorised person, although in Article 9, he counted all those authorised persons. It is said that after the expiry of the deadline laid down in Article 19. (listed deadlines per degree of secrecy, as far as the secret can be kept) the authorised person may extend the maximum period of time for a period of time specified for certain degrees of secrecy once more. Then the government is introduced, which is not at all an authorised person, so that it can further extend the deadline for keeping secrets and list specific cases. So it's amazing what kind of authority you have and what position you're giving the government! I can't agree with any discussions. I think this law is a step backwards when it comes to the freedoms and human rights of citizens and everything we feared in some previous period. One powerful and great government gets such enormous powers. We will see in some of the following members how it will be possible for a series of provisions to come into the situation and follow individuals who are looking for data, where the security of citizens and their fundamental right, the right to privacy, and how it will be threatened. The possibility that the Government of the Republic of Serbia, in addition to authorised persons, will be granted the right to extend the deadlines of secrecy, although it is not an authorised person, speaks of the very intensity of the legislator, specifically about the government itself that wants to strengthen, reward, makes Alex Žunjic of itself. It decides whether or not to extend the time limit for keeping the confidentiality of certain data, which it has not determined to be secret. It is the biggest problem – it is not authorized to determine that it is classified, but it will decide whether to extend the deadline. There is no Minister Markovic here, I ask the government's representatives to seriously wonder how democracy and the right of citizens to privacy can function if this law passes. I don't think such a law, with this intensity, has been passed in Serbia or in that dark communist era. I think the concept proposed in this law will lead to a serious violation of human rights in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30598	Thank you. Member of the 20th amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Jankovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30599	It's about Article 20. According to my amendment, Article 20(2) states that the words "or other" are replaced by the words "and by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia approved". It's about extending the time limit for keeping secrets. Article 2 states that this is provided for by an international agreement or other international obligations of Serbia. This seemed rather imprecise to me, and it was deliberately inaccurate. Since the formulation, which defines the international obligations of the Republic of Serbia, is imprecise, should be changed because the National Assembly is the Supreme Legislative Body, and without its consent, they cannot really be taken over any international obligations. What's always fun is why the government doesn't accept the amendment. He says: "The government does not accept the amendment because the Republic of Serbia is a member of different international organisations, whose membership also implies international obligations of the Republic of Serbia which do not involve the approval of the National Assembly." What is a good question – whose approval is meant here? What kind of secret memberships can be involved in international organisations, so that the congregation has no insight into them? It is clear to us that there are almost royal powers of a person in the role of President B.T., who, in principle, I have found to be the only true heir to J.B.T., but now I have to make my own amendments. He went far beyond the ambitious locksmith and reached the papal level. What international membership or project were discussed by Boris (or, as Berlusconi said, "George Clooney") and Pope in four eyes, in perfect English – although I believe that "Klani" speaks very fluently in Latin – especially after visiting Ustasha star Thompson, and then Mesic talks to the same pope? Is it possible that the Supreme Legislative Body does not give consent to various commitments made? It is clear to us that underground diplomacy is also doing its job – agreements with Eulex are signed; the plan for breaking the state is being met; with delay it responds to the emergence of a new flu, which, however, has existed since 1914, i.e. The virus that causes it, but that's why the law in which the secessionist virus is being implanted. It is unclear why parliament should accept that the executive power takes control of both him and the authorities it has chosen to control. For example, in whose jurisdiction is the recent event in Kosovo, which the current government is increasingly treating well-neighbourly, and we from a national-oriented opposition still see as our southern province? Here's what this is about: the German counterintelligence service in the last days has been shaking up a major scandal, writes the weekly "Spiggle". In March 2008, Anton K. was arrested near Munich (not Joseph K., this is Anton K.), an agent of the German BND intelligence service, who has been working in Kosovo on time, and these days he is scheduled to begin his trial on the charge that he was betraying state secrets in a love gay enthusiasm. In 2005, Anton K met Murat A, a Macedonian Albanian, who became an associate of the German foreign ministry (c, c, that with foreign affairs), but soon became Anton's lover. According to the indictment, Anton K. made secret reports available to his lover. The charges against Murat A, who is said to have maintained contacts with organised crime, and who has worked for both Albanian and Macedonian intelligence, are also severe. The two of them moved to a new joint apartment near Stuttgart, where they await the start of the trial and claim to be victims of homophobic authorities. For nothing, Serbian double Clooney smiled at Angela Merkel when things like this happen.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30600	The People's MP Marina Ragush submitted to Article 22 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Mr. Dragan Stevanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30601	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Serbian Radical Party has submitted this amendment because we believe that the government - i.e. those who wrote this law, the working group, on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia - has defined the law so that it has not made a clear division of information that carries different degrees of secrecy. In particular, stratification was not made between the degrees of secrecy "state secret" and "truly confidential", such as two degrees of secrecy, both "confidential" and "internal". You see, we have made our amendments so conceptually to make here a restrictive relationship of the state towards these two degrees of secrecy "state secret" and "secret secret", as well as through these amendments, but also through some other decisions and debates in this assembly absolutely give support to those bodies or offices that affirm the achievement of certain rights and freedoms of citizens, above all to the Commissioner, the Citizens' Protector, and I do not think there is a need to talk specifically about it. In Article 22, a periodic assessment of secrecy is foreseen for all four degrees of secrecy. We have here predicted that for the state secret and for the "strictly confidential", the information that carries this degree of secrecy, this term is deleted. The government predicted that at least once every ten years and at least once every five years, for these two degrees of secrecy, periodic evaluations were carried out at least once every ten years. In her explanation for which this amendment was rejected, the Government wrote, among other things: "... Whereas it should be possible for a periodic evaluation of the confidentiality of the information marked with the highest degree of secrecy to be taken more than once in the period prescribed by the draft law." My question for the government is, how many times is that? Is that three times, 33 times or 333 times? Will the government, every month, every year, every two years, carry out an evaluation, a periodic assessment of secrecy? It is not a problem to be flexible when it comes to secrets that have "confidential" and "internally", but the state must show national awareness and responsibility when it comes to state secrecy and information with the designation "extremely confidential". You who wrote this bill wrote down what damage they do when they manipulate the data that has this degree of secrecy. That's not what we wrote. But the difference is that there is no responsibility for you that the state behaves responsibly and responsibly and maturely treats the information that has the designation "state secret" and "extremely confidential". Someone say what that means - at least once every five, at least once in ten years. Is it possible that any data that has this kind of treatment, in three years or four years, if they are not the only political changes, deserves different treatment from one government of a state, regardless of who is in power? You've predicted at least five or six members here, before and after this, that define the possibility of the secrecy mark being removed from some document, but this is a space for dictatorship and this is a space for manipulation. All those who question you from that point of view, and you who represent the government and the government who wrote this, are absolutely right. This is the law you wrote to manipulate classified information. Whether they are the first or last degree of secrecy, for you it is quite irrelevant, but you will use such a model of the law to manipulate the degrees of secrecy "state secret" and "extremely confidential". Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30602	The 22nd amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Progress Serbia Group. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Saša Maksimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30603	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, the SNS amendment applies, as well as the previous amendment, to a periodic assessment of secrecy based on which a recall of secrecy can be carried out. In view of the fact that for the information marked "state secret", the bill provides for a period of ten years, for a "ecretely confidential" at least once every five years, for "confidential" three years, for internal data for one year, we have foreseen this amendment for a period of five, three, two, and this last one to remain one. What were we actually trying to achieve with this amendment? We wanted to practically increase transparency, allow democratic civilian security control, of course, through the reduction of deadlines for the periodic assessment of confidentiality set out in Article 22. It's a bill of law. The government has practically rejected this and all these amendments have shown that it continues to have a tendency to restore the central concept of security, especially by giving such a bill to state authorities the possibility of practically declaring everything a secret. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30604	The 24th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Progress Serbia Group. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Mr. Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30605	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when it comes to Article 24, the Serbian Progressive Party has sought to put the National Security and Secret Data Protection Council office in a position that it cannot make decisions on its own without the authority's opinion. So, recalling secrecy in the process of controlling a person must be authorized to give his opinion and that opinion must be binding on the Commission. The Serbian Progressive Party sought this amendment to include it in the member himself, in the law itself, and thus, as regards the National Security Council Office and the protection of classified information, it still restricts its authority, in the sense of avoiding any abuse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30606	The 25th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Palalic, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Milos Aligrudic and Miroslav Petkovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Mrs. Vojić-Markovic wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30607	Thank you, Madam President. So in Article 25, after the word “authorised person,” we replaced the words “public authority” with the words “competent authority”. You have already noticed that DSS MPs have really worked very intensively on the proposal for this law. We've made two kinds of amendments. The first species are actually fundamental amendments, which change the very bad bill in those segments that are important for the functioning of this country, such as Article 40, Article 37, 68, etc. Simply, DSS MPs really don't like to reach the stage of democratic development of society one-five steps back, just because someone wants to control all the data in this country, manipulate these data, and that what's very important for this country, rooting out corruption and crime, has clouded the fact that all this data that is due to the activities of state officials is inaccessible to the public, because they are declared secret to all four levels, as predicted by this law. Another kind of amendment, but not less important, is this, like the amendment to Article 25 where we're actually trying to narrow the language of this law down to something that is clear and precise, because we don't agree to the fog that the biller introduces by this law to hide the essence. This amendment to Article 25 is exactly such a proposal, meaning, linguistically, which explains what is really important for this law. Secondly, what we have noticed is a literal translation, which is about a conglomerate of several laws that have been taken. The point of the story is that this literal translation is what we criticise. Adjust it to our language, for God's sake. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30608	Mr. Jovan Palalic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30609	I'd like to refer to this article on the 25th and point to one contradiction of which this whole law has been laid down. In Article 25, it is defined that an authorised public authority person will have to call off a secret information as a secret and in a situation where the Commissioner for Information of public importance and the protection of personal data submits a complaint and the complaint is realised. Article 8, a very important member of this law, which defines the information that can be classified as a secret, says: "The secret information can be determined by an interest in the Republic of Serbia whose unauthorized person would be damaged if the need for protection of the interest of the Republic of Serbia is more difficult than the interest in free access to information of public importance. “ What situation can we face if this law is applied? So, the authorised person is appraised, he has the discretion to mark one information as a secret, because, according to him, the marking of this information is far more secret than the interest of free access to information of public importance. That information could endanger national security. Then in that situation, you have a procedure for the Commissioner to file a complaint, the complaint is being made, and this person who said that this information could endanger national security has to call off that information as a secret. You have complete contradiction between Article 8 and Article 25. It may come to the fact that, according to the Commissioner's appeal for information of public importance, some information that has been classified because its publication in the public can cause damage to national security must be called off. We point to a series of contradictions, a series of problems, a series of indeterminateities. Not only will this law create problems when it comes to human rights and freedoms, but also when it comes to other institutions and regulatory bodies selected by this National Assembly, including the Commissioner. In this sense, it was not enough just to resolve the issue of trustee relations in Article 40, because we also see through a number of other provisions of this law, where the clear rights of the Commissioner for Public Information are of public importance, that these rights can be narrowed down or, in the extreme line, can completely violate the concept and definition of what makes a single information secret and why it is marked as a secret.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30610	The 26th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Palalic, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Milos Aligrudic and Miroslav Petkovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Mrs. Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30611	Article 26 speaks of recalling secrecy when it is in the public interest. A short member, just one sentence, but a lot of inaccuracy in that one sentence: “The National Assembly, the President of the Republic and the Government may withdraw from certain documents a code of secrecy, regardless of the degree of secrecy, if it is in the public interest or because of the implementation of international obligations.” If you listened carefully then you will notice, you have read here, saying: “The National Assembly and the Government can. ” If you look at Article 9, there are precisely authorised persons to determine the secrecy of the data, and there is, among other things, that the authorised person is the President of the National Assembly, not the National Assembly, so it says he is the Prime Minister, not the Government. If this is not fixed, I assume that the President of the Assembly (because it says here that the National Assembly is removing the code of secrecy) can convene a session of the Assembly where we as a collective body will decide whether to remove the code of secrecy because it is in the public interest. As far as I can tell from Article 9, that's not so. This member is very imprecise. So it's not "The National Assembly", it's "The President of the National Assembly", not "Government", because it's a collective body, it's a "Government President". It's the first kind of inaccuracy. Another kind of inaccuracies, and here we offer you assistance in the form of amendments, is that you have stated that you recall secrecy if it is in the public interest or because of the implementation of international obligations. What does “fulfilment of international obligations ” mean? The international obligations of a single country arise from international agreements or agreements. So, they have to simplify from some official, signed and certified document. In all this law, you have avoided stating that international agreements and agreements, when the government signs them, must be confirmed in this house, so that in these situations and the National Assembly knows what international obligations they are. I recommend you accept our amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30612	Thank you. The 29th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Palalic, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Milos Aligrudic and Miroslav Petkovic. Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Mr. Palalic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30613	Dear President, we've lost the minister. When I look at this law, the solutions, then probably the minister isn't interested in listening at all. They have been given the power to collect classified information, the government will have the opportunity to make available to everyone and everything when it comes to our private lives and there is no need for anyone to sit here and explain to the National Assembly and to submit anything, as we see through this Article 29, when it comes to correspondence with another state, legal traffic, contract conclusion, to the National Assembly. This is where we meet again with the definition of foreign classified information. It refers to the concluded international agreements that, according to our parliamentary group's proposal, must be confirmed in the National Assembly. It is truly amazing that we have one serious government, a serious government, that enters contractual relations with other countries without the people’s congregation knowing it! I guess the government was elected by the National Assembly. The National Assembly needs to know what obligations this country has to make to another state. If you have a situation where the Serbian government has concluded an international contract, based on that contract, it has exchanged some classified information, and we don't know what's going on here, and it can directly endanger national security, state, territory... As we had the Eulex case, tomorrow it could be with any other international institution. Please, we've invested more amendments on this issue, I don't see why the government is silent. There is only a representative of the ministry, there is no one from the ministers to respond to why it is a problem to define it as a confirmed international contract. Then we will have the government's obligation to come to this high house so that every such contract here along with us can ratify and exchange classified information based on that contract. This way, we can only suspect that the government will conclude some contracts away from the eyes of the National Assembly, which will result in the exchange of classified information with another country, which can and can be related to citizens, state and national security, but also to human rights and freedoms of all of us. Accept this amendment, it extends through several members. We don't see any problem with him being incorporated into this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30614	Mr Dragan Todorovic is advertising his Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30615	I'm advertising Article 27. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I find it simply amazing what is happening to us in the Parliament of the Republic of Serbia. This looks like that visit to our delegation, President Clooney, and then that scene by Italian Prime Minister Berlusconi... You can allow yourself such humiliation, I will not interfere; as far as I'm concerned, do whatever you want, but as far as the Serbian Radical Party is concerned, we do not allow you to humiliate us in this way. You informed us that a delegation of the Chinese Association for International Understanding is coming and you sent us a notice to inform you whether Boris Aleksic is able to attend the evenings. Since when does anyone in this assembly determine representatives of the Serbian Radical Party anywhere? Do you have a musical wish, too? Or any other wishes? What does this look like? Madam President, you should have sent a notice to the SRS Parliamentary Group, which has more members in the group of friendships with China, and we should have responded, in a way that has been common here so far, that the SRS MP will be in this delegation. This right you take for yourself is just amazing. What are you doing? The fact that you don't allow us many things in the Rules of Procedure, the fact that you have MPs of the First Order and the Second Order, and now you choose an MP who should be anywhere... That right only has an SRS Parliamentary Group and I would ask you not to do such things in the future, and we will inform you which MP will be present at this dinner. Thank you and please don't do this anymore.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30616	Thank you. There is no breach of the Rules of Procedure, as the breach of the Rules of Procedure refers to a breach of procedure during the session. I accept your suggestion that in the future I do not make any individual communications, although I think they are necessary, because every MP is a person, not only belongs to an MP group. I fully respect your suggestion when it comes to the SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30617	I won't have any objections to your individual contacts, let me tell you right now, but these are just contacts that... (President: As President of the Assembly, I was thinking of that kind of contact. I am absolutely not going into what form and what quality I am. All I'm talking about is the SRS Parliamentary Group, that everything goes through the SRS Group in the future. Thank you and forgive me.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30618	The 36th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Vesna Pesic, Judita Popović and Nebojsa Rangelovic together submitted to the title above Articles 37 and 37 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 37 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Jankovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Articles 38 and 38 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by the Citizens' Protector. The government has accepted the amendment of the Protector of Citizens. The Justice and Administration Committee also accepted an amendment with a correction. Both MPs Vesna Pesic, Judita Popovic and Nebojsa Rangelovic submitted to the title above Articles 38 and 38 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) A group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group submitted to the 38th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 38 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Jankovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Marina Toman submitted to Article 38 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Mr. Dragan Stevanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30619	Here is another amendment, or another completely pointless response from the government that explains the fact that they refused the amendment. Article 38 refers to the right of approval without security clearance. Be careful, the Serbian Radical Party has even stepped down from that attitude we announced today and in principle debate and said that without security checks, access to classified information marked "state secret" is not possible without a special security check, as the law provides. Beware of what the Government has done – the Government rejects this amendment with an explanation that the persons in item 1. (all mentioned in the proposal for this law which may access state secrets without security clearance) shall be obliged to sign a declaration before issuing the certificates confirming that it will deal with classified information in accordance with the law and other regulations. I ask the Government, the Government's representative, is there no one to answer us again, do you think that all those who are listed as persons in this article really deserve to verify, without special security, access to the data that has the designation "state secret"? That's just impossible. It's not a problem, as it explains, that they sign a statement, but we think that the state's secret is something you can't just approach and that it's necessary to carry out a special security check. After all, we ask you – why are special and general security checks, all the security checks that this law provides are in the law, defined in the law, and then bypassed when it comes to no less than a state secret? We suggested that special security checks not be subject to those who access the state's secret. The government says the amendment refuses, and then accepts the amendment of the Citizens' Protector, which is more restrictive than this and foresees security checks and for the degree of secrecy of the "state secret", but also for the degree of secrecy "extremely confidential". Now we ask you, why didn't you give this same explanation to the Citizens' Protector? The problem that we point to constantly and permanently during the debate – the government has fully indolently approached writing, adoption, and we can think about what this law will be like. The whole process of writing and passing this law has passed in the shadow of a public debate. No one from the government was in charge of the public debate. He led a certain Sasha Gajin, head of the task force who wrote the law, with the Commissioner for Public Information. When the law that treats state secrets and classified information is at stake, no one from the government has found it appropriate to give his court and position. The whole circus after that, about accepting and writing amendments after the law enters the procedure, actually confirms everything we point to and what we suspect the government will be prepared not only now for the adoption process, but also for the application of this law. Uh, I don't know what appropriate word to find, a joke, with a minister who comes in and out, and the fact that there's really no one to hear us, to respond or to some counterargument to what we're saying, I repeat, confirms what the relationship is and what the government's intention is with the confidentiality law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30620	The 40th Amendment was submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jankovic, together Vesna Pesic, Judita Popović and Nebojsa Rangelović, together Jovan Palalić, Milica Vojić-Marković, Milos Aligrudić and Miroslav Petkovic, together with the Government and the Citizens' Protector. The government has accepted amendments from MPs and citizens' protectors, and the Justice and Administration Committee has also accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30621	Thank you, Madam President. I really don't think it makes sense to draw attention to both you and the citizens of Serbia that the minister is never in the O.R. I reported on purpose, because this is one of the key amendments. Thank God you accepted our amendments. How crucial it is and how problematic the bill's proposal shows that three parliamentary groups have submitted amendments in almost identical text, as well as the Citizens' Protector. This shows that in fact, what made the Commissioner for Public Information and the Citizens' Protector, as the government of Vojislav Kostunica formed to protect the rights and freedoms of citizens who are threatened by state officials and state authorities and that information that is not available to every citizen they can get... And you have restricted this member of the 40th right of access to the very Guardian of Citizens and the Commissioner for Public Information and thus denied them that they are doing the work they have received, entrusted by the Constitution, the other laws that are still in force in this country, I do not know that they have been suspended. They operate by the laws of this country. Now you find a way to deny them the right to protect the citizens, their freedoms and their rights, which you threaten. In this article 40, so many terrible things have been contained, so many undemocratic things, so many unfree things, that this 40th should be written somewhere, framed and, since you have thousands of billboards, and since this Mr. Gilas is doing these very activities, I suggest that he create a dozen such billboards, to see citizens thinking about things and what needs they have to limit the rights and freedoms of citizens in this country. I don't think anyone has thought to do what the bill promoter did when he said that, let's say, the Public Information Commissioner and the Citizens' Protector can't get any information while the action is under way. When I spoke in principle, I mentioned the death of journalist Dade Vujasinovic 20 years ago. That procedure is still ongoing. Is it possible for someone to restrict the right to her parents, relatives and citizens of Serbia, who feel that such information should be known to receive that information? It's impossible, it's really impossible in a democratic country, as you represent this country. It has long not been democratic; since you came to power it is something called baninity, despotism or whatever, but democratic is not, because by every law, every bill shows that the rights and freedoms of citizens must be limited. Then, you say this - the restriction of Article 1 refers to data on: 1) of an investigative action, i.e. action under way, 2) of the methods of obtaining security and intelligence and the way in which special procedures and measures are applied in a specific case, 3) of members of the Ministry of Interior, etc. So it's very important that you simply withdrew this 40th because you accepted our amendment to delete it. I really don't feel comfortable talking in an O.R. where I don't have a minister-shaped conversation where the president smiles, I don't know if what I'm saying or what you're saying. But it really bothers and humiliates MPs, who have made an effort to write some quality amendments (if you have accepted them, I accept that they are of quality), that it is completely German auditorium, as far as those who need to explain and tell us – you know, gentlemen, you are wrong for these and these reasons. I accept that we may not see everything. Our intentions were completely clean. We had an idea to fix the bill, which is very bad. Thank you for accepting one of the key amendments. I don't think it's just because it's quality, but also because the local public was really disgusted with this, and it's been public talk for months. In any case, it's a good thing you accepted to delete this Article 40. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30622	Thank you. I'm really sorry if you've interpreted my mimi term as a smile, especially not the content you're talking about, I'm very much following you. And if my face looked like it, it's probably in support of some part of a sentence or sentence. So, I'm really sorry. National MP Dragan Stevanovic, who wants a word, submitted to the 40th amendment. Mrs. Jankovic, did you want to follow the previous amendment? Mrs. Aleksandra Jankovic first has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30623	I, as well as my colleagues, am pleased and think that the citizens of Serbia should be glad that this amendment has been adopted. But indeed, the observation of experts referred above all to the need to withdraw the law from the assembly procedure and enter into the creation of a new draft of the law, because in this way we practically devalue ourselves, devalue the Constitution, devalue independent institutions, and above all the ones we chose, means the Commissioner for Information of Public Meaning and Protection of Personality Data and, of course, the Protector of Citizens. The team is more paradoxical and this explanation for not accepting the previous amendments, in which the government says the amendments do not accept because it has already submitted an amendment to those members. So, we are now entering some kind of competition, which is not healthy, in which representatives of the legislative authority compete with representatives of the executive government, who are only on pressure, not only on pressure, but also on the devastating opinions they have received from the same Europe, whose opinion they believe... So we're getting into a situation where we can adopt some logical amendments. The objective of this amendment, which we have all submitted, was to restore what is constitutional fluid, which is that independent control bodies, the Citizens' Protector and the Commissioner for Public Information and Personal Data Protection, are not limited access to classified information because it would make it completely impossible for them to conduct procedures that are of their jurisdiction, because they are educated as independent and independent state bodies. The particular problem with the solutions contained in the provisions of Article 40 of this proposal is that they were directly contrary to the provision of Article 3 of the same proposal because of the provision of Article 3. The draft law provides that the secret information is not considered to be classified as a secret in order to cover up a criminal offence, exceed the authority or abuse of an official position or other illegal act or act. The existence of a criminal offence under the conditions laid down in Article 359. The criminal code must include overruling the powers or abuse of the official position, only proven by the jurisdiction of the competent court. As a result, the evidence of intent to cover up the crime would be printed with a criminal procedure and often give effect only when the need for a particular information, which has been declared a secret, has ceased to be classified. It is not possible to demonstrate the intention of concealment if the law enforcement authorities and courts restrict access to classified information in order to conduct the necessary procedure. In this context, it is practically a question of identifying the intention of concealing other illegal acts or actions, whose determination is in the jurisdiction of the control bodies of the state (meaning conflict of interest, public procurement in the case of public procurement for security structures, control of dedicated use of budgetary resources, etc.). It is so good that the government reacted to great pressure by accepting these amendments, but perhaps it should be a lesson to introduce one principle, to make a reference to the opposition, as to criticise the pure mind, and to classify our objections and objections to such independent institutions as the Commissioner for Public Information and the Protector of Citizens, before the law even comes into the assembly procedure, so that we do not devalue such a high body.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30624	Mr. Dragan Stevanović has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30625	We felt that this should be resolved differently in this Article 40, but given that the Government has submitted an amendment to its law and that Article 40, which refers to the restriction of the right of access to information, is deleted, then it is pointless and mentioned, i.e. to defend that concept and explain it. What should certainly be said, the Serbian Radical Party in all of this, i.e. in the fact that the government has submitted an amendment to its law, does not recognise the government's good intentions and does not recognise the fact that the government is aware of what it has done, what a mistake it has made, or is essentially interested in the position of the Commissioner for Information of Public Meaning and the Protector of Citizens. Unlike some, we believe that the relationship between the Government of the Republic of Serbia, or the state towards these two offices, cannot be demonstrated by the fact that you will make one senseless member of the law, and then, under the pressure of the public and individuals, throw that member out of the normative part of the law. Gentlemen of the government, you've had, since the government's representative is not, of course, gentlemen of the majority, the government has had a chance to show their relationship with the trustee so far who knows how many times, the relationship of respect, understanding of importance and support. That's what we said in the principle debate. In no report written by the Commissioner, sent to the Assembly, the Government of the Republic of Serbia or any other, you cannot recognise the finding that he had the support of the authorities, or executive bodies. The government has done its utmost to ensure that the Information Commissioner, from the constitution of that office, does not work and does not work until today. Those are his words. These are his findings and findings in the report. It's not just the SRS' position, which is absolutely, unfortunately, consistent with the Commissioner's. We expressed our relationship with the Commissioner in the process of adopting the statutes and the Rules of Procedure on the work of his office. At that time, we gave support to the office in the congregation debate as long as the trustee was guided by principles that he then said would be principles or rappers on which he would work and function. But when you look at everything in everyday life as a citizen you can't, referring to this law, to realize, in the context of access to information of public importance, you're asking an objective question as to what will only happen when the data that has a code of secrecy with these first two, the most serious degrees? In the municipality where I come from, you can't get the director of a public company to tell you how much pay he has; you can't get the information about the monthly bills for mobile phones that the citizens of the municipalities pay to these arrogant directors. You're referring to the trustee and the trustee is holding onto your head, but he's openly telling you there are no mechanisms to make them give it to you. We now need to believe that the government's intention to show a genuine correct relationship with the Public Information Commissioner and the Citizens' Protector is by removing a member of the 40th of this law, we mention again, although it is the state secrets and data that have the designation "supervised", whose irresponsible treatment can produce severe or irrevocable damage to the national security and constitutional order of this state. This law is bad. It's written in an entirely inappropriate atmosphere. People who are not nationalally aware and responsible have made his plan. It wasn't done by people who had their own obligation, by the Constitution, in the government. This was done by third-sector people, people who "crust" (in the intelligence sense) and by political, financial and security systems of this country. It should be a motive for you who do most to put your finger on the front about what you vote for and what you support. Can we wait, can we live to see a law come before the MPs that we can understand and experience as consistent? A law that will apply the next government, which you will not do, we hope. And she rules afterwards. Yesterday, there was a law before the MPs, or agreement signed with the Republic of Italy under the 1987 law of the Republic of Italy. Three months ago, you passed laws that you now alter by altering and supplementing. This isn't a game, this isn't a law that regulates medals, so it's a sin to say it's a game. This is a law that provides constitutional order, national security, legal order and international relations for a country. With this approach, you only show how much you feel about the state and confirm all claims by the Serbian Radical Party that you are completely irresponsible and nationally unconscious. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30626	Parliamentarians Jovan Palalic, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Milos Aligrudic and Miroslav Petkovic submitted together to the 42nd amendment. Mrs. Donka Banovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30627	Article 42 reads: "Access to foreign classified information is carried out in accordance with this law, regulations adopted under this law, or in accordance with an international agreement with a foreign country, an international organisation or another international entity concluded by the Republic of Serbia. “ The bill promoter stubbornly rejected all our amendments reminding that all international agreements and international agreements after signing in the government must come to the National Assembly to be confirmed and ratified. Our amendment is to enter the word "confirmed" before the word "International Agreement". What is surprising is the ignorance of the legislators, because in the explanation of why our amendments are being rejected, it says: "The government does not accept the amendment because all international agreements concluded by the Republic of Serbia with foreign states, international organisations and other international entities are not subject to the certification process in the National Assembly. “ I’m sorry, this argument suggests great ignorance about the legal order in Serbia. I remind the legislator and the MPs that we have over 20 contracts at this session, agreements that we confirm. I would like to point out: we have a bill to confirm the guarantee agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the European Bank – therefore, between the Republic of Serbia and the international organisation. Or, we have the Law on Confirmation of Ups between the Republic of Serbia and the Kingdom of Spain – therefore, an international treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the other side of the country. I can't believe we got this kind of explanation and you don't want to bring into the law that international documents have to be confirmed. Since you avoid discussing these international agreements and agreements and discussing them in this home, it just shows that you really want to draw that veil of secrecy over those things and topics where there can be no secrecy.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30628	Members of the 43rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vesna Pesic, Judita Popovic and Nebojsa Rangelovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 43rd amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs Vesna Pesic, Judita Popović and Nebojsa Rangelovic together submitted to the title above the members of the 44th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 45th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vesna Pesic, Judita Popovic and Nebojsa Rangelovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Jovan Palalic, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Milos Aligrudic and Miroslav Petkovic submitted to the 45th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Mr. Jovan Palalic wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30629	We are also in Article 45, which defines the issue of freedom from the duty of secrecy, once again pointing to the problem of public authorities as an authorised person. I want to point out once again that Article 9 is a real problem. In addition to people who naturally need to have the possibility of determining the secrecy of data, such as the president of the National Assembly, the president of the State or the Prime Minister, the circle of those persons is spreading to a number of other officials, I think primarily (and this is the most problematic) to local government officials. Anything they think can be classified, they will proclaim throughout Serbia. The contradiction of that, and I can say the comedy that we're going to enter when this law is passed, is seen simply in the position of the 3rd of this Article 45. He says: “At the request of the competent authority, the head of the public authority’s responsibility to keep the confidentiality of the information may be released by the authority who appointed it... “ It’s just a matter of time before I go home. ” Imagine now a mayor appointed by the city's assembly, who has declared some secret information, that he will be coerced by the city's congregation, which he controls in the party town, and freed from the secrecy of that information! Indeed, the situation you're in, I'm saying, comically, with a bill like this, a very serious subject can only worry. We believe that the circle of these persons must come to these most important state officials, because it is natural for them to deal with national security. In addition, you have that in Article 8, which defines which information can be classified. The presidents of the municipalities, the mayors, who have their own interests in hiding all kinds of data as they exercise power, should not be given this opportunity to hide it, regardless of which parties they are from. Because what can happen at a local level and what they can think is national security and declare secrets can only make our heads hurt. So let's put this story down to that normal level. Let's get this law serious, get this country serious and make this law as acceptable as possible. Our appeal is, and through this amendment, that other officials outside these states are deprived of the possibility of declaring various data secret.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30630	Member of the 45th Amendment was submitted by MP Marina Ragush. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Mr. Dragan Stevanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30631	My colleague Marina Ragush has submitted an amendment to Article 45. However, I must say that we have made one technical mistake here, which was referred to by the one who rejected this amendment. Instead of giving us an essential explanation, aware of the technical mistakes, they referred us to it. The review here is that we wrote, "The National Security Council", not "The National Security Council Office". We did not insist here that the Assembly be present, that parliament be present through its competent committee in the process of implementing this law. Here we have tried to insist that we entrust such a role to the National Security Council Office, on the one hand, because it is classified information that has the designation "state secret" and "secretly confidential"; that I do not again state everything that is a problem if these data are not treated adequately, what all the consequences can come out of Article 45 if this occurs. On the other hand, if we had confidence in the Council Office and wanted to propose it here, why didn't the bill promoter? What did that office want him to do in this process? The Council's office will be again, a minority, a meat committee or an exposition of the Democratic Party. There's nothing to argue about, it's so clear. Once again, the political will of the majority or dominant political force in the assembly majority will be fully implemented. That's why you avoided it. How much space there is for abuse here, to be subjective, or to do damage to the constitutional order of the Republic of Serbia! Thank you. (Dragan Todorovic, from the site: Can you turn down the temperature a little bit?) )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30632	We'll ask, it is warm. Some MPs complain it's cold, so it's hard to find exactly... But I also think it's warm, and I'm warm. Members of the 51st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Palalic, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Milos Aligrudic and Miroslav Petkovic. Mr. Jovan Palalic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30633	This amendment covers an important area in this law, which concerns the issue of data to foreign persons. It is truly amazing what is written in Article 51! He says: “The competent authority shall issue a licence to a foreign person if: (1) has an appropriate security certificate issued by the State whose nationality it is... “ It’s just a matter of time before I go home. ” What's a security certificate? This is a very serious thing. One competent authority that under this law has the ability to label and keep something as a secret may, on the basis of some piece of paper issued by his country, give the information that is classified as a secret, which may be a danger to national security. We don't know what security certification is. What's that? There's that every day. We're in a situation where the law leaves a complete hole here, well. We have no idea what security certificates are. Why isn't it defined in the law? What is the security certificate of another state? What guarantees us that this security certificate does not create a risk to national security if such a person is given that information? Amazing flexibility when it comes to correspondence with foreign countries and foreign faces! We can give a foreign state classified information, although it is not ratified in the National Assembly, hidden from the eyes of the MPs. We can issue secret information to a foreign person based on certificates, let's say, the Republic of Albania that has... Surely she is not well-intentioned towards the state of Serbia. Some Albanian statesman will issue a certificate and we will issue him some secret information concerning national security in Kosovo. Very serious things, very serious inconsistencies in this law, and we can only imagine what will be found here in application. I'm warning you again, the best way to pull this law. You've been announcing it for years, making a story – there'll be no more secret persecution, no more human data gathering, it'll be transparent, there'll be freedom. That's not gonna happen. We just see, on the one hand, pressure (we'll talk about it when we get to Articles 59, 60 and 61) on ordinary people who want to know some information about how this country works, how these checks work. On the other hand, there is flexibility and openness towards foreign states and foreign citizens who have an interest in reaching some data and using it for the interests of their country, and against the interests of the Republic of Serbia. Please take this problem seriously. It is absolutely inadmissible that at least one sentence did not say that the state would protect its own interest, if someone brought some kind of certificate and someone assessed the risk of that national security certificate if it had to be given. Not to mention that we keep repeating that it has to write – confirmed international contracts. It is truly amazing why everything should be hidden from the MPs, including one such important thing for the state! Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30634	The 53rd amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic, who wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30635	This amendment to Article 53 shall be purely technical and shall relate to the request of natural or legal persons. This amendment provided that, in the context of this information contained in this request, JMBG would be found in addition to the name and last name, in addition to the name of the firm, i.e. the FIB. In its argument, the Government said that the amendment is not accepted because the data proposed in the amendment in the application for authorisation is not required, since the Council's office is providing a security questionnaire in the follow-up procedure to the natural and legal person. I agree that this exists in a security questionnaire, but the request and questionnaire are two different things. Today, a banal administrative procedure or a commitment in life, in public, can't be done in everyday life without someone asking you for this JMBG. That is why we insisted that the JMBG, or PIB, be in this request. And if there is no benefit, as you consider it, no harm would be done to the legislator, or to the content of these requirements to be applied in the procedures provided for in the normative part of this text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30636	Thank you. National MP Boris Aleksic submitted to the 55th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Jovan Palalic, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Milos Aligrudic and Miroslav Petkovic submitted to the 61st amendment. Mr. Jovan Palalic wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30637	This member is amazing! He refers to a special security questionnaire. It is said this way - a special security questionnaire shall be completed for the security check set out in Article 54 of this Act. This includes different data: services in foreign armies and paramilitary formations; other data and facts, other than those data, which make a natural or legal person subject to the influences and pressures that pose a security risk. Is it possible for someone to imagine that a person looking for a secret piece of information like this would enter something like this into the questionnaire, admit to blackmailing him, working for foreign service, participating in paramilitary formations, committing war crimes? It's just amazing! I have no other word I'd use for something like this, except that it's a joke. Because if a security check is carried out very seriously, as it wants to be done here in this law, then it is logical that those persons doing it, representatives of the Ministry of the Interior, BIA or VBA, come up with this kind of data. And they expect that the person who intends to access some classified security information will indicate everything that in the beginning excludes him from getting that information - I repeat, that he is working with foreign services, that he has been pressured with various blackmails, that he has participated in paramilitary formations. It's just amazing! He says this: contact details with foreign security services and intelligence services. Be careful, data on participation in the activities of the organisation whose activities and objectives are prohibited are required to be provided in the questionnaire. This is absolutely amazing. Indeed, if this introduces tragedy, innuendo, and comedy, the fact that something like this can be written in one bill of law that should be applied tomorrow in practice. These are the data they need to determine the organs they're running. It is their job to determine this information and therefore to provide information to the Council Office, which will assess whether this person should be given the information that has been classified as a secret. To finish, you expect that person to admit everything that disqualifies him to get that data! Please, if we've pointed out the fundamental changes to this law, let's at least get the state serious and erase this. This is unserious, this is irresponsible and in relation to other countries with which Serbia needs to correspondence will make us ridiculous and unserious. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30638	National MP Bojan Mladenovic submitted to the 61st amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Mr. Dragan Stevanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30639	This article 61 refers to a special security questionnaire. We insist on the importance of this article because of the fact that it is a special security check. In fact, it is clearly defined that special security checks are in the function of treating data that have the designation "state secret" and we believe that there is absolutely nothing to be left to the case. In this regard, my colleague Bojan Mladenovic proposed an amendment adding item 3: "The legal and natural persons that fill out a special security questionnaire are obliged to change all data from the basic and special security questionnaire application within 15 days of the day of the change. “ The government has written an explanation that the amendment is not accepted because the solution to the proposed amendment is not complete. Why isn't it celery? It would be nice if a representative of the government were here to tell us why it's not complete, since it's members 74 and 78. The proposal for a law prescribed by the Office of the Council to carry out checks on the approved, certified and to adopt, accordingly, a decision on the termination of the validity of the approval, certification, unless the person no longer fulfils the conditions for granting it. We have not overlooked what the powers and powers of this office are, but how much flexibility you foresee in this law, and even as regards those obligations entrusted to the Office and to some other bodies, we will talk below, when members who specifically refer to it come. We felt that it was not bad for those who were subject to special security checks, because it was the data that had been marked as a state secret or top secret, to have an obligation to inform the Office of all those changes that were defined by this member within 15 days of the day of that change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30640	The 64th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group, Serbia and MP Dragan Stevanovic. Mr. Sasa Maksimovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30641	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we all agree that the data confidentiality law is one of the key laws missing from the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Of course, such a law should provide for the regulation of a single system of determining and protecting classified information that is of interest to Serbia's national and public security. Then we get to the famous 64. The draft law, which, for reasons of clarity, must read: ‘The competent authority shall, from the date of receipt of the completed questionnaire, carry out a security check within the following deadlines: 1) to 30 days, for a basic one; 2) to 60 days, for a complete one; 3 to 90 days, for a special security check’. I'm not going to read it completely for the sake of time. Paragraph 4 states: “If the security check is not carried out within the time limits set out in paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Article, there shall be no security risk of access to the applicant’s classified information.” Now, to look at this on the other hand, law abuses are also possible in the case of a legal provision on the granting of an authorisation for data without specific verification of applicants, because, together with other legal provisions, it would be possible to restrict the powers of those who have the right to such authorisations. On the other hand, Article 64's position could lead to an incredible security breach. The competent authority should not be allowed the possibility of not carrying out a security check, which would create an obligation, not as in that argument given by the Government, to create an obligation in such a way that it does not have to carry out the obligation. I find it a little illogical that it says in the government's explanation and in this bill, because there can be an opportunity for a person who's doing a check, say, to be sick and no one else to take over the security clearance obligation, so neither does responsibility.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30642	Mr. Dragan Stevanović has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30643	Article 64 of the Law refers to a deadline for carrying out a security check. We have proposed, in our amendment, that Article 4 be deleted. This is why: the title above this article provides for a deadline for carrying out a security check; paragraph 1 sets the deadlines: up to 30 days for a basic security check, up to 60 days for a full security check, up to 90 days for a special security check. In point 2. The government says: “Extremely, if there are reasonable reasons for this, the deadlines laid down in Article 1(2) and (3) of this Article may be extended for the longest time period laid down in these points. ” So, the government predicts, or the promoter, that in the procedures of security checks, subjective and objective reasons can be met, so security checks will be carried out over an almost double-time period of time than the one envisaged. Here, and to accept, therefore, there are objective reasons for the extension of security checks, then you come to Section 3, which says: “In the case of a Article 2, paragraph 2, the competent authority is required to inform the public authority’s authority’s authority’s authority’s authority that has submitted a request for a security check. ” So, you now foresee the obligation to notify the competent authority of the extension of this deadline and then write Article 4 which says: “If security checks are not carried out within the deadlines set out in Articles 1 and 2 of this Article, there is no security risk of access to classified information. ” You predict 90 days, then in paragraph 2, you give security clearance a chance for another 90 days, and then in attitude 4, you predict that if someone doesn't carry out a security check, then there's no risk. Does anyone who filed a request have to wait 180 days to realize that there is no security risk of taking a risk to certain data? Do we have a deadline, do we need a security check or do we not? What did you want? You know where the irony is? Irony is explained, for it is said: “Amendment is not accepted for the reason that the provision of Article 64(4) is accepted. The bill creates an obligation for an authority to carry out a security check... “ It’s just a matter of time before I go home. ” Be careful, provide for a deadline for the check and give an additional time limit for the check, and then you say – if the check is not carried out, then there is no security risk. What's the message? Then you mock us that you are making a commitment to this member to respect the deadline provided for in this law. That's why we've suggested that the 4th of this article be deleted. If you've predicted security checks and you know what they're referring to, we can understand that for objective reasons, you'll have extra time, but that the extra time will be doubled and that someone has or has no reason to, or not to run a check, then what's all this about? What did you want? No one knows. And this article looks at all the government's surfaces in access to this law, as far as this is written just for the sake of order, not to remove something you wrote in the reasoning of the law. This area is covered by 400 sublegal acts. Is this law and this normative text the answer to that chaos? Of course not, but you tend to produce it. You produce it because in that trendy chaos you have politically marketed it and you want to market politically in the future. How can we calmly look at all this, how can we be calm about rights and freedom tomorrow when this law comes into force? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30644	The title above the 65th and the 65th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Do you want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30645	Article 65 of this Act refers to temporary approval. We thought both title and article 65 were completely unnecessary. This law has built mechanisms that are granted access to certain information. Temporary approval can only be a mechanism for manipulation and abuse, especially before it is in the hands of a man, or director of the office. The director of the office is a person who will depend exclusively on the political will of the majority in Serbia. Our experience with the political will of the majority is indeed unpleasant, especially when matters of national security and national interest are at stake. For this reason, we felt that such a planned mechanism, entrusted in the hands of the Director of the Office, which will exclusively be the political will of Boris Tadic, and the people who deal with security, and sit around it, by Miki Rakic, Sasa Vukadinovic, Ivica Petrovic and so on... That man will be their sole will. Knowing that only two things are being dealt with in Serbia today, which we talked about in the principle debate, are being pursued by Ratko Mladic and are being appointed by prosecutors, we believe that there will be abuse here and that is why we want this mechanism to break out of the hands of the office's director. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30646	Parliamentarians Jovan Palalic, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Milos Aligrudic and Miroslav Petkovic submitted together to the 65th amendment. Mr. Palalic wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30647	This article 65 actually speaks where real power should be concentrated under this law. You've given the government really great powers in the domain of editing the confidentiality process, prescribing the secrets and everything else. Now, here we come to who has the power to, even though the face hasn't passed the security check, come into possession of classified information. First, why are you introducing security checks? I guess that's why, like any normal country, we can determine the risks to that person who's looking for classified information. So that person needs to go through all security checks and be assessed that his ability to access classified information will not endanger national security. Now we're getting into a situation where some faces can, even though they haven't passed a full security check, come up with a secret information. That's what the Council's office decides, not the Government, which we've seen in previous members with a series of powers. The power to give someone information, even though it wasn't estimated how dangerous the face is to the state's security, is based on the BIA, the MUP, the Military Intelligence Agency, in the hands of the Council's office. Now let's see what the Council Office is. The Council office actually takes over the current National Security Council, i.e. what the President of the Republic's cabinet is. It is seen here that the power of decision is being transferred outside the government into a circle of people who are currently in the presidency of the Republic, around the President of the Republic, because, according to Article 90, the Director of the Office himself is being elected, indeed, on a proposal from the Government, but in the previous opinion of the National Security Council. Now you can imagine this situation: the person fills in the questionnaire, so you ask him for amazing things – to say that he was a member of the secret service, that he participated in paramilitary formations, that he was pressured by blackmail. You haven't checked all this, but someone at the Council Office has estimated that we should give this person some classified information. Guys, is it possible that you wrote this? Is it possible that such power could be given to any Council office that may be a member of the government, perhaps a minister or a director, but it is very suspicious of who he was working with and what he was doing with some foreign services, given that he needed it? He's a very dangerous member of 65. This has to be deleted immediately. Otherwise, people who are being blackmailed, who are in contact with foreign services, who may be in power, will be able to access information that could endanger national security, and that power is being given to the Council Office. Delete this, this is a very dangerous member. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30648	Mr. Milos Aligrudic has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30649	About this same amendment. I'll use group time, of course. As my predecessor said, this has to be erased. It's just amazing. What does "temporary approval" mean in this context, in the context of this article? So, you're going to give a person, watch out, there's not even a defined face here, that person is going to define the Director of the Council Office, give the secret information temporarily, if they think that the conditions are met, and then, if it's not necessary to give that temporary approval, I guess this guy will forget it, everything he's heard and video. You know, it resets. So you temporarily give him the secret information; if there were no conditions for giving temporary secret information, temporary approval for classified information, then I guess that person will be asked by the Director of the Council Office to choose to forget what he heard and saw. Is that possible? How is that possible? What did you want with that? You had to explain the law to us in detail... You know, in terms of the law, for the sake of the public, for the record, there's this so-called. an explanation of certain provisions of the Institute of Law. It is usually prescribed by a member of the law in the words of someone who writes that explanation without any detailed knowledge of matter. Would you be so kind... The minister is not here, of course, and who would be kind enough to explain to us what this is about and how the state interest here is protected in a particular situation? We have endless trust, a blanco infinite trust in an institute called the Director of the Council's Office, who, like that, will choose and because he estimated that someone who asks for this would allow the information temporarily, wouldn't, if it were wrong, and the mortal people were here to make mistakes, choose to forget that secret information? You know what, it would be best for you to accept this amendment, to liquidate this provision of the law in this way as it is written, so when you come up with something smarter, to guess what you actually wanted to say (as the people say - you know what the poet wanted to say), then write it down, turn it over to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and then consider some other options. What you wrote not only means nothing, but it means everything, and that's certainly not good.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30650	Parliamentarians Jovan Palalic, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Milos Aligrudic and Miroslav Petkovic submitted together to the 66th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Mrs. Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30651	I think it's already indicative that the minister is actually uncomfortable because he put up with such a bad bill and that that's why he doesn't attend this debate, and it's not that he doesn't like to listen to criticism. I don't think he's here to defend his proposal because he's raised his hands and he's uncomfortable, because he knows this kind of bad bill is going to be voted on anyway, so that he doesn't at least participate in it. As with the previous article 65, this article 66 could be classified as dangerous members of this law. He's talking about managing security clearance reports. The authorities responsible for carrying out the security check, under this law, provide the Council Office with a report on the results of the verification. They also fill in this security questionnaire and make a recommendation on issuing or denying approval. What the legislator did not foresee, and we believe that this article must stand, is the view that the report made up by that competent authority cannot be used for other purposes. In other words, this report must not be misused in any way. In response to the Government, I received an explanation that there is a Data Protection Act, etc. That law was passed in this congregation about a year ago. However, this is a very sensitive matter and it cannot be bad, it would even fix this law, that it clearly states that these reports must not be used in any other way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30652	National MPs Vesna Pesic, Judita Popovic and Nebojsa Rangelovic submitted together to the 67th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 67 of the amendment, the MP Marina Toman submitted. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Mr. Dragan Stevanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30653	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment to Article 67 has been made and proposed in the context of amendments to Article 64 of this Law, which we have tried to present to the non-existent representative of the Government, and it makes sense if this amendment is accepted to Article 64, which we were just talking about. Otherwise, if this amendment had not been found before the representatives of the government, we would not have known that there are similar and inappropriate amendments for the government to consider. The government thus wrote in its statement: "The government does not accept the amendment, since for legal and technical reasons it is unsuitable for consideration. “ It may be unsuitable because it comes from the right side, but it cannot be inappropriate for legal and technical reasons, because it has been submitted absolutely in the context of the amendment that we were just talking about. We're not surprised by this attitude and this kind of sentence from the government. I would like to say on behalf of the SRS, Madam President, that this is disrespect by ministers who are authorized to debate today's government's disrespect not only for the representatives of the opposition and for the representatives of the parties who have submitted the amendments, but also for you as the first among us equals, as you often say. It seems to me that disrespect for you who are first in charge and under the obligation to implement Rule 27 of this Rules of Procedure which regulates the work of Parliament, and which is the same for all participants in the debate, and in this case these are the non-existent representatives of the Government. I don't want to put anything incriminating on the gentleman sitting with us today, but unfortunately, he can neither speak here nor be able to accept any of these amendments. I think the arguments you've heard about the amendments to article 65 of this law have indeed been acceptable to every government official. It seems to me that the amendment to Article 65, whether the DSS or the SRS amendment, could have been accepted that today we had one of the representatives of the government in the debate here. In the name of the Serbian Radical Party, I urge you to use your authority and this practice of irresponsibility and arrogance of the Government to break off that position, because they are obliged to respect this home, and not to have us run according to their needs or above all, I would say, the whims.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30654	Thank you. Parliamentarians Jovan Palalic, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Milos Aligrudic and Miroslav Petkovic submitted together to the 67th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Mr. Jovan Palalic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30655	You see, in addition to Article 65, Article 67 is the most dangerous member, it leaves great opportunity for the Council Office, those who manage, seriously affect human rights and the privacy of citizens. I will read paragraph 3 of this Article: “Extremely, if the report on the results of the security check and the recommendations for issuing the authorisation cannot determine whether the conditions laid down by law for the authorisation of a natural or legal person have been met, or if, after the security check has been carried out, there has been an important change in the verified data that may have been made from the impact on the issue of approval, the Office of the Council will require the competent authority to carry out an additional check, i.e. supplementing the report and making a new recommendation... “ It’s just a matter of time before I go home. ” The key question is being asked. After a security check was completed, a specific solution was made, a decision was made that a person had the possibility of accessing data that were classified, but then it was said that the Council's office before the additional check warrant came up with data that these verified data had been changed. How did the office get to that? How did she find out? What techniques did she find out? This is not possible without a permanent check on a particular person, not even after a decision to issue an authorisation has been made. Here with this article in 67, we are in danger of one person who, in a regular procedure under this law, has been subjected to certain data being under permanent surveillance by the security authorities, without the office's decision to carry out this check further. This means that everyone who asks for the data is suspicious and permanent is suspicious, and the Council office just agrees with that data, just lying and stacking it. Once they give you someone by the neck, for the rest of your life, you've got them on your neck, as soon as you've asked for some information. This is a dangerous member, seriously affecting human rights and the privacy of citizens. This is the worst part of this law. He gives every citizen who has the right to seek information from a man who will follow him, to keep track of him while he owns it. I ask you to seriously consider both Article 65 and this Article 67, so that we don't turn into one spy state where everyone will control, and especially this powerful Council office, which we didn't see at first. The government signed acts, passed regulations, prescribed rules and then magically disappeared. Then comes the mighty Council office, which collects data, gives tracking orders, supplemental checks, without checking, gives data to others. The Council's office, which will be formed by the current National Security Council, led by the President of the Republic, will be a powerful institution that will check people whenever they think of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30656	The Government has submitted to Article 72 of the amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration has adopted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Jovan Palalic, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Milos Aligrudic and Miroslav Petkovic submitted to the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 76 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Dragan Stevanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30657	This amendment concerns Article 76, that is, the title — extension of the validity of the approval. The applicant here provided that the Council Office shall inform the authorisation holder in writing that it may apply for an extension of the approval no later than six months before the end of that committee. With our amendment, we replaced the word "can" with "is due". It is therefore required to apply for an extension of approval no later than six months before the expiry of the approval. The explanation is completely inadmissible – the government does not accept the amendment since the possibility of notifying from this member refers to the Council's Office, not to the authorisation holder. It doesn't matter who it refers to. What we've been responding to is the fact that you've predicted that there's something you can do, not that you owe him. If you have already found it appropriate for anyone, whether it is the Office or the Information Holder, in some way in the law you mention in the context – you can – we think it should be – it is required, or – it is binding. It's a principled problem of law writers in this government, which is that the principle of obligation is not applied in any particular way. You've had a chance to see that in a debate about gender equality law, where the whole law comes down to it being, trying, being able, being able and should. That's why we think it should be clear and concrete here. If there is already an opportunity for the Office to notify, then be it obliged to notify; and if it is not obliged, then let it not be and that it may not be notified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30658	National MP Natasa Vukkovic submitted to the 81st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of Chapter VI, the amendment was submitted by the Government. The Justice and Administration Committee has accepted the amendment. Member of the 85th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic, who wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30659	On Article 85, relating to internal control, we have submitted an amendment proposing a new position 3, which states: "The public authorities' organisations responsible for carrying out internal control are required to submit an annual report on the internal control procedures carried out by the Council Office. “ In principle, we have also criticised the promoter (we have repeated this once again today) because he has completely declared adequate parliamentary control in the application of this law. For this reason, we have proposed that those responsible for internal control report annually on the procedures carried out by the Council's Office, so that the Office of the Council, within the framework of its report, which, under Article 88, may also include data on internal control carried out. This is just another proof that the law is entrusted exclusively to the executive authority and that it is not in the normative sense at all, nor will it, in fact, be escaped from the abuses of which this law gives space to happen tomorrow. Once again, we feel that the law should be withdrawn from the procedure. Such a model, the concept will not be in the function of adequate treatment of classified data, and on the other hand, to those bodies of public authority that will apply this law gives so much free space for abuse and manipulation that it simply causes some amount of fear in us that I repeat, we will be under the influence of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30660	Members of the 87th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vesna Pesic, Judita Popovic and Nebojsa Rangelovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Government has submitted to Article 88 of the amendment. The Justice and Administration Committee has accepted the amendment. The 90th Amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic, who wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30661	Article 90 regulates the question of the Director of the Office of the Council, i.e. the appointment and resolution of the Director of the Office of the Council. “ The government appoints and relieves the Director of the Office of the Council, according to the National Security Council. “ In addition to the National Security Council, we ask that the board of the National Assembly, responsible for defence and security, give its opinion on the appointment and resolution of directors. You're saying in your explanation that the Council Office is the government's service. We don't argue with anything, it's totally fine. Furthermore, you say that the government is authorized to appoint the Director of the Council Office – and that is fine, and we do not dispute that with this amendment either. Let the government be the one to appoint and resolve the director, we don't mind. We're just asking to supplement a provision that speaks about who proposes the director. Therefore, the Director should also be proposed by the responsible Defence and Security Committee. The government further says in its explanation that the control function of the Defence and Security Committee is performed by the minister reporting once a year to this committee. This has nothing to do with our amendment. Neither have we slowed it down, nor have we stated in the amendment that this is not the case. So these insubstantial explanations and arguments of the government really don't lead to anything. It's simply a deaf phone game; we say one thing in the amendment, you explain the other. In part, by the will of the people, by a partially skilled, interesting combination, you are where you are. And the people can collectively sometimes make mistakes, and they should forgive the people until the next election. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30662	The amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic to Article 92. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 93 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Jankovic. Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Aleksandra Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30663	The essence of this amendment, which is provided for in Article 93(4) to be deleted, is that in the context of the crisis, when there is a serious budget deficit and a decision to reduce the number of employees in the state bodies, it is unwarranted that employees in the professional service of the Government, which is to deal with the application of the law, have the possibility of increasing wages to 20% in relation to the salaries of other civil servants and deputies whose jobs are classified in the same group. If we were to manage the criteria set out in Article 93(4) of this proposal, which is the specific feature of working conditions, complexity and the nature of work, many categories of employees, which in public authorities, which in health, education, private sector, should also allow a 20% salary increase. The unilateral application of this criterion to persons employed in the National Security Council Office and the protection of classified information would constitute discrimination.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30664	The 95th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group of Serbia. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Jovan Palalic, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Milos Aligrudic and Miroslav Petkovic submitted the amendment to Article 97. Mr. Milos Aligrudic has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30665	This is the crown of everything in this law. Article 97... I've got about five minutes, so we'll be as simple as possible for the public. I'll read article 97 first. It refers to a situation where our country needs to share classified information with a foreign country, otherwise our country can only do so on the basis of an international agreement with another country. We said that this agreement should be ratified, not just signed, which the legislator does not farm two percent. So there must be one contract between us and a foreign state so we can exchange classified information. Article 97 says when and in what case we can exchange classified information with foreign states even if there is no contract. He says this: "In the extremely unfavourable political, economic or defence-security circumstances for the Republic of Serbia and if this is necessary in order to protect the interests of Article 8(2) of this law, at the request of the public authority of the Council Office," already mentioned, "exchanges classified information... “ etc. First, we're going to do this less significantly, essentially, and in a formal sense, we're going to do it in a catastrophic way. In Article 97, you said that this data exchange would be able to take into account, among other things, and if necessary in order to protect the interests of Article 8(2) of this Act. Then I will not be lazy, I will open Article 8 of Section 2 of this Law, which says: “Data from Item 1, ” means classified information,“ they refer especially to... “ There are four areas to which these classified information is referred. What kind of interests? What protection of interest from Article 2? What are you talking about? There's a minister, there's a man from the Ministry, did you look at what you wrote? How is this possible? How can you write a provision that does not apply to anything when it comes to Article 8 paragraph 2? Take the bill, man, and look, and tell the minister what you wrote him. What kind of interests? It describes areas where the idea is drawn that they can contain classified information. What kind of interests? It doesn't exist. Now let's do this first – when secret information can be exchanged. You say secret information, without a contract, with a foreign state can be exchanged in extremely unfavourable political, economic or defence-security circumstances for the Republic of Serbia. Great. So, on the day this law comes into force, you can immediately, without international contracts, exchange this secret information with a foreign country, because everyone reasonable and normal in this country appreciates that we are just in extremely unfavourable political, economic and security circumstances for the Republic of Serbia. Isn't that right? What about Kosovo and Metohija? Is it part of Serbia's territory or not? If this is part of Serbia's territory and makes it a substrate of the security environment in which we are, are you saying that this is not an extremely unfavourable security environment for the Republic of Serbia? Are you saying that in economic terms in the country, roses are booming right now? Are you saying you're not increasing your unemployment rate dramatically? Are you saying that at this point this same government that you're sitting in is not preparing to fire three or four thousand people from the state administration, and in principle -- let's liquidate them for why, in order to satisfy the IMF, without any plan or idea of what we would do with them, without any real needs plan for the state administration? Are you saying that these are favourable economic conditions? We're in unfavourable economic conditions right now. What are unfavorable political conditions? If you don't know, I'll tell you. The unfavorable political condition for Serbia, the crown, is Boris Tadic. It is an unfavorable political condition for Serbia. We are in this kind of accident, a political disaster, called the government of Boris Tadic. What do we do now? Just because Boris Tadic, as a fundamental political disaster, in power, has already created a precondition for his government to exchange classified information without international agreements with the foreign state. So that this isn't interpreted as easy to twist the whole story, then it's smarter for you to write this article differently, as we suggested. It would read, if you have this amendment – the exchange of data without a contract (paraphrase) with a foreign state can only be done under conditions of war, the situation of immediate war danger or emergency. The exchange of information would not be conducted by any office or council, but would have to be done by a government or body designated by the measures adopted in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, such as measures on the introduction of a state of war or emergency in the country. What office? What are you talking about? You would have to learn first the nomochnik, so the way to write regulations, to know when one member writes what you will call in another member. You didn't do it first. It's funny what you wrote, I end up with this. And as for the meaning of the very provision and what you wrote, when and under what circumstances secret information can be exchanged with foreign states, it's not funny, it's also directly dangerous.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30666	Thank you. Mr. Dragan Stevanović has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30667	I'll be very brief. We share an opinion with colleagues who have fully devised this Article 97; indeed, he deserves it. In a principle debate, the Serbian Radical Party said that due to such a concept and the essence of the law, the government will succeed in giving legitimacy and legalising all the trendyly produced chaos in the area of dealing with classified information and security of the state. In particular, this member of the law will give legitimacy to all of the government's future political and security bahanals and its relations with The Hague tribunal and other international organisations and institutions that are extremely, extremely anti-Serbian. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30668	Thank you. Mr. Sasa Maksimovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30669	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam President, I have to go back to Article 95, given that you ran him over so quickly, not giving me a chance to get back to him. The amendment submitted by the Prosperity Group to Serbia-SNS refers to the central register of classified information. This is another indication that the minister, Madam President, must be present, because the amendment has been accepted, but you didn't say that. It is an amendment to Article 95.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30670	The amendment has been accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30671	That's not what you said, so it's left unsaid, with me having to say it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-17-0.u30672	Thank you. The government has submitted an amendment, with an amendment, which adds the title and article 97a. The Justice and Administration Committee has accepted the amendment with the correction. The 98th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 99 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Jankovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Government has submitted to Article 109 of the amendment. The Justice and Administration Committee has accepted the amendment. Since we have completed a search of the Bill's proposal in particular, I conclude the search of the Bill's proposal in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We're done working for today. We'll continue tomorrow at 10:00. Thank you. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Second Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that the sittings are attended by 92 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 87 MPs are present in the hall and there are working conditions. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Momo Colaković, Miletic Mihajlović, Mladen Grujic and Milica Radovic. I would like to inform you that I am in agreement with Article 88(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly called for the session, in addition to the proposing representatives, of Mr Neboja Bradic, Culture Minister, to be attended by Natasa Vukkovic-Lesandric, an assistant minister of culture. We move to the 8th item of the agenda – PROPOSAL OF THE LAW ON AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE LEGISLATION OF INFORMATION FROM THE PUBLIC MEAN (single) Ms. Verica Radeta will be authorised by the representative of the SRS by these points. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs: together, Tomislav Nikolic, Jorgovanka Tabaković, Zoran Antic, Veroljub Arsic, Zoran Babić, Jelena Budimirović, Bozidar Delić, Stefan Zankov, Otto Kišmarton, Milan Knezevic, Saša Maksimović, Zoran Masić, Predrag Mijatović, Ljiljana Miladović, Boris Pelevic, Milet Poscurica, Gojko Radić, Mićo Rogović, Vuceta Tošković and Dragan Colić; Vjerica Radeta, Aleksandra Janković; together, Jovan Palalić, Milos Aligrudić and Milica Vojić-Marković; Vladan Jeremic, Dusan Marić, Dragan Stevanović, Marina Toman; jointly, Zoran Antimović, Saša Maksimtimović and Oto Kismartinović; together with Mra Janić, Mira Janić, Mira Janić, Mira Janić, Mirić, Mirić, Mira Šta Neštić, Mirić, Mir, Mirić, Mirić, Mirić, Mir, Mir, National MPs Jovan Palalic, Milos Aligrudic and Milica Vojic-Markovic have, in writing, withdrawn the amendments they have submitted together to Article 8. You have received the Report of the Committee on Culture and Information and the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. On Article 1, the amendment was submitted by a group of 20 MPs from the Prosperity Group of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Mr. Sasa Maksimovic has a word. Here you go.
