ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-03-0.u29368	President-in-Office, honourable MPs, respected citizens of Serbia who watch this direct transmission, I would first of all like to ask for an explanation from you, Madam President. Today is exactly 30 days since I asked one question to certain ministers, you and certain state bodies. To this day, here are 30 days, I have not received the answer to my questions and explanations that I have asked for. The other day here was Mr. Mirko Cvetkovic, the president of our government, and for one of the questions I asked along the way, he said he knew the answer, but he won't say. Last time we had a problem with these issues, it was about that famous playground for people with disabilities, Mrs. Minister Markovic said she didn't even get the question. I ask you, are you Mr. Mirk Cvetkovic, Police Minister, Minister of Justice, all state authorities, agencies and bodies fighting or who should be fighting corruption, forwarding the question I asked you? Let me remind you, the question for you was, since you, in the announcement of the autumn session, apostrophe of the supervisory role of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, where you are, we must admit, the most responsible, in the implementation of the law, what did you do about it and whether these questions were forwarded to the ministries of which I asked for an answer? I am doing this because of the citizens of Serbia, because the electronic media, above all, boycott this issue and that in me raises further suspicion. Of all the questions I have referred to, I have received a response from the Anti-Corruption Council, the Anti-Corruption Agency and the Committee for the Prevention of Conflict of Interest. Those answers are unsettling, people said, they're acting crazy, but I, as you know, Madam President, am not giving up on this issue, especially as they are high-ranking state officials from the environment or from President Tadic's cabinet. To remind Serbian citizens that since 2004 (it seems to me that somehow, with President Tadic coming to power), they have marketed 520,000,000 euros, according to the people. Mr. Ljajic, Minister of Social Affairs, I draw attention to this, as he faces hungry citizens and solves their problems. How it solves them – by increasing the number of people who have been hungry in the last year and a half, according to all the analyses. So, I'm talking about Nebojsa Krstic, Srdjan Shaper, especially him. Dear MPs, this man has been put on the 102 largest Serb in history to vote! I am also talking about Mr. Dragan Gilas, mayor of Belgrade, about Milica Delevic-Dilas, who, you can imagine, is the director of the government's EU Association Office. It would not be disputed that they have private businesses if they did not deal with public enterprises, and most of all with Telekom Srbija. It is that public enterprise, dear fellow MPs and respected citizens of Serbia, which this time increased the price of services to the citizens 63%. The price of services has been increased, 63%, which Telekom gives on behalf of all of us, because it is a state-owned, national-owned company, ownership of citizens. I have reasonable doubts that in these private companies some funds have been spent on these public enterprises. The list includes "Beige Hair", which includes this company where some directors have been arrested, and there is this company... I know it's not a company, it's a health facility, where last night they only have three beds for flu patients. Therefore, President, you have a great responsibility, and there are great expectations for citizens, to warn these state authorities and ministers to answer these questions. I repeat, no matter what threats I have, I say it twice, Mr. Prime Minister said that I will be protected, I don't know what you're going to say, I certainly won't give up these questions until I get an answer. I'll also use all the debates in principle, according to all the laws by which I report, until I get an answer to these questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-03-0.u29369	Mr Markicevic, in the debate we will in principle stick to the agenda, and as far as your questions are concerned, they have been forwarded. It's updated because there's no answer within the deadline and we're going to do it again today. Mr. Radojko Obradovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-03-0.u29370	Thank you, Madam President. Madam President, fellow vice-presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Ljajic, ministers, there are few questions we will agree on in this assembly and we will agree on in Serbia. For example, three years ago, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia was adopted, and in Article 15. Constitutional law says that the deadline for all laws to be passed is 31. 12. In 2008. Article 110. The constitution also says there is a obligation to pass a law on the National Assembly. Then we hear an interpretation of the ruling majority that this applies only to the laws that exist, that that deadline does not apply to laws that have not been passed. In other words, laws that have not been passed theoretically never have to be passed. Another example: The Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law of April of this year defined the maximum budget deficit and it must not exceed 70 billion dinars. More than a month ago, the budget deficit, according to official data on the finance ministry's website and on the government of Serbia's website, was 74 billion, and now it's over 80. The finance minister said a few days ago that, in fact, that maximum deficit doesn't have to be respected at all times. Citizens of Serbia, try to break in your bank, when you have the right minus, at some point... or try not to pay your dues within a given time, and you will see what will happen to you. [[The President: Gentlemen of the Messengers, please, a little quieter, I really don't hear the speaker.]] It is obvious that in Serbia the same laws, the same regulations, are read in different ways. Is there anything we can agree on? Are there at least some things we can agree on? I'm sure there are. Here, we in the Assembly will surely agree that today is November 3, 2009. I don't think that thing needs 126 votes. Do we agree on that? I think we agree. Does that date apply to everyone in the Republic of Serbia? No, I don't. That date does not apply to the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The budget system law, which we often talk about, which the finance minister specifically highlighted last week, a special new law, was passed in July of this year, a law that will allow these 130 billion to be much better controlled and more effectively controlled by public revenues and public expenditures. The law does not apply to the government of the Republic of Serbia. In fact, already today, we should have had the budget of the Republic of Serbia for next year in the Serbian Parliament so that we could prepare for its adoption, analyse each single item, so that those 130 billion, or some new 130 billion, do not go beyond congregation control. I have one question for Mr. Cvetkovic's Prime Minister: Mr. Prime Minister, when will the Government of the Republic of Serbia begin to respect the laws in force in the Republic of Serbia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-03-0.u29371	Thank you. Mr Tomislav Nikolic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-03-0.u29372	I know that for you and the representatives of the government and the ruling majority, this is just one part of the show, this is our question, but I have to address you now, because all my attempts to influence you to preserve the dignity of this assembly as an attempt to oversee your work. You really insulted us yesterday, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, so I ask you how long will this agony of the Parliament and its dependence be on the government and ministers alone? Yesterday afternoon, you told us that Minister Ljajic is in the building and that you expect him to enter the hall any minute; you received information that the minister is in the building and that you expect him at any moment. I have a stenogram, don't try to say you didn't say that, then we'll open up in the media that debate. Then after two breaks, it turns out that Minister Ljajic didn't enter the O.R. Someone might be exulting because they don't have ministers, so there's no sitting, and I'm asking the Ministers where their face is and where is their responsibility to this National Assembly? Is it possible that we're sitting here in the O.R. waiting for the minister to show up at the O.R. to defend the agenda the government has set him up and whether any of them are responsible for not showing up here yesterday at the workplace and we couldn't continue the session? You start this morning, and you don't even state the reasons why you interrupted yesterday's session and where these gentlemen are ministers; the three were determined to defend that law, or four or five, who knows how many. Where did they spend yesterday afternoon when they were not in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia? That's one thing. The second thing, October 31st, was the deadline for the Assembly to receive a draft budget for 2010. Did you get that draft budget, Mrs. Djukic? Have you asked the Prime Minister why he does not respect the law passed by the Serbian Parliament, under which he was obliged to deliver the draft budget law to us by October 31st? This way, slowly, from day to day, one question at a time piles up. You can say it's a small thing, that it doesn't matter at all, but it's an absolute disrespect for the National Assembly, especially for these majority here. Yesterday you were warned that thousands of people would lose their jobs, at least 10,000 people without bread, and here there were five MPs of the ruling majority, as if we were just so soulless, as if we were not interested in it at all, as if yesterday's part of the session had to pass through in the praises that the ministers of themselves had found a way for the government to work better. When the debate began, and when we began to speak what was our duty, we from the opposition, to find out what was wrong, the ministers were simply lost. That made it impossible for us to work. When one day you write down how much a session of the National Assembly costs, so you figure out how much it was because of the obstruction or this one or that... Why didn't the media talk today about how much the government cost yesterday to the National Assembly and how much it cost Minister Ljajic, or Minister Obradovic or that minister Dinkic; how much did the citizens of Serbia cost yesterday because they could not hold a session? Were they campaigning by any chance? So they don't prepare an election by accident? Is Minister Ljajic making maybe another party? So something has to be solved in this Serbia. You have won power probably in the elections, although you have deceived Serbian citizens, so the coalition is also composed of those who should not have before the election to say they will be in the coalition. But now things are completely clear – either you run this country or we go to elections, but don't you prepare for elections without us knowing anything about it. Because if the police arrest 600 people for the night, and the police minister starts to brag about the media, it turns out he's the most responsible. I ask him why he takes responsibility off himself when someone dies. Then why does he say it's not my fault, it's the director of the police? So we need to know; if anyone's responsible, then he's responsible. You've taken over the roles to be solely worthy, and the responsibility to transfer to someone else. So, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, this is a separate branch of government. I know that your political party is in the government of the Republic of Serbia, and I admit that I could forgive 30 and 40% of your behavior, take it as understandable, as the behavior of someone who represents that authority, but exactly 100 percent of the service to the Government of the Republic of Serbia...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-03-0.u29373	Thank you. It's been five minutes. Mr. Nikolic, if you had been in the O.R. yesterday, you would have had facts, and the fact is I didn't mention Mr. Ljajic, and I had information that the minister was in the building. Mr. Dinkic got sick, got fever, and that's why he had to leave this building. And as a doctor and president of the assembly, I have a lot of understanding for someone with a fever who's got a disease. I don't think it should be... Please, don't throw it away and don't distract me in the answer I'm telling Mr. Nikolic. As far as the Budget Law is concerned, it is indeed the government's obligation to deliver this law to us, but the delicateness of the economic situation probably makes the process of passing the bill more delicate than in previous years and in previous councils, when it was also, unfortunately, delayed the budget. I don't think that's right, but it's simply a government habit to assess until the last minute, until it delivers us a budget, all possibilities and all aspects to make this basic law proposal, which allows for the practical implementation of all other laws, as much as possible. As for the police minister, who is obviously a continuous bone in your throat, to the satisfaction of the citizens of Serbia, this ministry is doing its job correctly. The word is Mr. Vladan Batic. Mr. Shormaz, would you please be quiet and not throw? Please, you're intruding the work. Mr. Todorovic, you've made a wish for some sanctions. The word is Mr. Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-03-0.u29374	Give me back my time. (President: Don't worry, 45 seconds longer you'll talk. ) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, question for Minister Dacic. I welcome the Morava action, because drug abuse is one of the monsters of modern humanity, and of course our society, but it would be a real sign that the fight against corruption and crime has really started if one of the tycoons were arrested in this country or one of the authorities, and one of them sometimes comes to this hall. Then it would have been a message to the whole public if it had really started fighting corruption and crime. Speaking of drug abuse, I wonder why the action didn't cover the Obrenovac, because the drugs in Obrenovac took a lot of young lives and turned into a black large number of families. Also, when I mention Obrenovac, again a question for Minister Dacic, because now the construction and urban mafia is also currently active, reselling apartments several times. Here's a case I'm asking the minister to take action through the authorities and the police. In Obrenovac, owned by a man who has been an immigrant in Canada for years (returned and his name is Branislav – Brana Jovanovic, but it does not matter), a multi-species was created. Underneath it is the main collector of hot water. So it's a time bomb. Then people wonder how it's possible. It's possible, because it's made by people from the local urban service, local powermakers, people who have been or have been, who are actually co-investors of building that building, past urban conditions, without paid communals, without paid VAT. But the building was nickeled. Then the flats were resold several times, and nothing to anyone. The “chard of the heavens and the earth ” stands. The D.A.'s office is silent because there's a responsibility for the prosecution. I'm asking Minister Dacic to examine this case. Speaking of Minister Dacic, here are a few more questions. One is: is the minister known to have over 20,000 vehicles registered in Serbia with a steering wheel on the right? Imagine if they saw in England, for example, a man driving on the highway of a car whose steering wheel is on the left! They'd take him to a mental institution. It's possible here. It's not those people's fault, they were buying those vehicles two or three thousand euros cheaper, and then magically these cars, which are practically road killers, are registered. Next question: does Minister Dacic know that 80% of vehicles that first pass the technical examination and are registered were not actually in the technical examination? The agency ends this paperwork, doesn't check the correctness, not even the brakes or the controls. I want them to take some action. In the end, how is it possible for you to see tractors with unlit trailers on the highways and roads registered for motor vehicles all the time and even worse? Nowhere in a civilized world is there, and we, for God's sake, want to go to Europe.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-03-0.u29375	Mr. Dragan Todorovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-03-0.u29376	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mrs. Slavic, I really want something, but you haven't guessed what I want. If I were as diabolical as you and perhaps assumed what you wanted, you might even like it. But let's go back to my question, first of all for the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, as well as the issue of the Privatisation Agency. It's a good thing you, Mr. Rasim Ljajic, are here to hear the money being spent on Serbian and Serbian citizens. Yesterday, I made a few statements about a contract signed with a consortium of financial advisors related to the privatisation of JAT Airways. A sum of 1,250,000 dinars was paid. I don't know exactly how many of them are here. Companies that have been operating in Serbia since the start of privatisation generally appear. I'm interested in how much of the Privatisation Agency has given money so far, and where have all these companies been involved in privatisation? Let me remind you, Mr. Rasim Ljajic, let's say, Jeremy Moody received 2424 euros a day for 33 days. Imagine what you in your ministry could do with this kind of money, how many poor people could feed in one day! Not to tell you how many of them got here just for this one job. And do you know what happened to JAT Airways? He's in front of bankruptcy. I ask that the Privatisation Agency deliver to us what they did, what they wrote, probably some act, a document based on which we can assess whether they did their job right or not. Maybe they did a good study and suggested what to do, and maybe someone blocked it. How do we know? I'm asking for this to be delivered. So the study they completed is related to JAT Airways. Just to remind you, the Agency has engaged more than 200 times a variety of privatization advisors. So I insist that we be delivered who's hired, for which companies exactly, and what they've done. Just to remind you, the Sosite General for Icarbus received 1.13m euros. That job's gone bad. For BDO Exel, he received 36,000 euros. Raiffeisen Investment has charged for a successful job, for privatising the Traveller, which has also failed, 2.7% of the value. I'm interested in how much is that? The privatisation of "Yugoslav river shipping" should be charged 1.35%. When you look at what all of these have robbed Serbian citizens, it is no wonder where we are. The flag has thus far been paid 559.999 euros, and is scheduled to pay 50m euros. How long do you think you're robbing Serbia? What does this look like? Mr. Minister, you're in the ministry that should help these poor and poor citizens. So, what money? Why don't you stop stealing from the government? Why don't you make sure they don't rob us like this? Are you discussing such papers? Do you even know about papers like this? That's why Mladjan Dinkic got sick. Because they would have to answer all these questions, because he's the one who's rocking and the Privatisation Agency and the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development. That, when I remember a little bit better, was the work of the current Prime Minister. And he'll come to the wallpaper with Dinkic and I think he'll wear the same uniform.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-03-0.u29377	Thank you, Mr. Todorovic, it's been five minutes. The word is Mrs Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-03-0.u29378	Ladies and gentlemen, the answer and the notice I need concerns the Ministry of Justice and the area of the Justice Department's work in overseeing the legality of the work of the courts. In fact, extensive information appeared in the written and electronic media today that yesterday was a meeting of the president of commercial courts, where it was agreed between the president of commercial courts that they would not apply some provisions of the law. If I lack information that the Constitutional Court has decided that certain provisions of a law are being put out of effect, then I apologize for my uninformedness. If that is not the case, then I ask the Ministry of Justice to send a very clear message to the Serbian population that independence of the judiciary cannot be treated in such a way that judges themselves decide which provisions of the law will apply and which provisions the law will not apply. If we have such a message from an independent branch of government in Serbia, and we do not react as the National Assembly, 250 of us, who makes laws, then we must not report the next time the judges decide not to apply any provision of any other law, judges or any judges of any other court who inform the public in the media that any of the provisions will not apply. I sincerely hope that such a decision has not been made among the judges of commercial courts, as I hope, if so, that we will all understand that the independence of a branch of government is by no means the irresponsibility of any branch of government, including the National Assembly. In particular, I think it is important that we MPs, whose basic function is the law-making function, and then the rule of law control, defend those laws that we have passed and control whether they apply them. In changing societies, regardless of whether they change according to European integration rules or their own strategies, one of the main sources of injustice is selective law enforcement. Belonged to the opposition or the ruling majority, we know it's a source of injustice. In every sectoral policy, if you have a selective application of the law, then citizens in that society say - the state is not good. It is not true that we share responsibility if we belong to the ruling majority or to the opposition in the qualification of the population in the case of the obvious selective application of the law, but I think we share responsibility and that we must have a unique position if in our society, a decision of any court, any judge appears in the media, to which they declare to the public that they will not apply some of the provisions of any law. I hope, too, that the notice I request from the Justice Department in the area of supervision of the legal work of the courts will not come to mind that some journalist has misunderstood or was mistranslated. I would really ask journalists, as the key critical public of our work in the National Assembly and the work of every institution that is financed from public finances and so on by the Government and courts, to exclude as an explanation that there has been a misunderstanding between what may have been at the meeting of the President of the Commercial Courts and what has been passed on in the media. I am finishing my request for an explanation with the hope that there is a big misunderstanding and that the judges themselves of the trade court will come forward and inform that the law is the same for all, that the laws, while they are in force, have a non-selective application and that there can be no judge who will, in general, give us a message that he or she has decided or decided not to apply any provision of the law. If it is put out of force by decision of the Constitutional Court, then, of course, it is a second procedure and I would ask for clear notice, if that is the case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-03-0.u29379	Thank you. Mrs. Comic took part as a representative of the ZES parliamentary group. Mr. Zoran Krasic advertises the Rules of Procedure, and Mr. Tomislav Nikolic also. First, Mr. Nikolic answered.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-03-0.u29380	I'd like to point out more injuries to the Rules of Procedure. First, you committed them in answer to my question. I want to tell you that you informed us yesterday that you have information that the minister is in the building. Please tell me who gave you the information. Did he lose his job? Then, you said then – it does not matter whether the ministers have no intention of coming or being in the building, so since they are in the building, please wait a little longer. Then you said: “Lords of the Parliament, because the minister is prevented from participating today, we continue our work tomorrow. “ That’s one thing. You know they were prevented, and you don't inform us about it this morning. Now you're telling me you're a doctor for Mladjan Dinkic and he couldn't because of the temperature yesterday afternoon to work, and he met with the Americans yesterday afternoon. I ask you, if Mladjan Dinkic is ill, is this transmitted immediately to Rasim Ljajic, and to Minister Zarko Obradovic and Minister Milan Markovic? Does that catch the government immediately, as soon as one minister, are they all sick? That's very important. Secondly, when you have already allowed Mrs. Comic to show how much her morale has changed since 2001 to this day, from the day she asked that the penalties of judges who were punished by law be punished by the media, until today when she asks that judges who say they will not be punished, I ask you why did we not get that paper that Mrs. Comic is an authorised representative so she can ask a question? As a MP, she couldn't ask a question. I really don't see that she's an authorised representative of the ZES Group.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-03-0.u29381	Mr. Krasic, according to the Rules of Procedure? So Mr. Bojan Pudar informed me yesterday that Minister Markovic is still in the building. After information that Mr Dinkic had a temperature, and that Mr Markovic had left the building, I had quite the usual communication with the MPs who were in the O.R., informed them that we would continue to work today. As for Mr. Zoran Krasic... You're advertising the Rules of Procedure, right?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-03-0.u29382	I'm not advertising it, but I'm suggesting there's been a breach of the Rules of Procedure. I have nothing to advertise what DOS did, God forbid. Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic, Member 27. The rules of procedure are too wide, but clear. Now you've brought us all into an awkward situation. Mrs. Comic had no basis for receiving the word – neither is she president of the parliamentary group, nor is she deputy president of the parliamentary group. However, I must tell you, everything she said - she's right. You selectively, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, apply the Rules of Procedure. If I'd done what Gordana Komic did, you'd have given me one sentence, another sentence, third sentence, you'd have thrown me out. Since Gordana Komic did so, it is all acceptable, normal, because you selectively apply the regulation and do not have the authority to be president or vice president of the parliamentary group. No, he can't even be a representative. It's gone, you can't show that paper, it doesn't exist. But since there can never be a breach of the Rules of Procedure in this room by the President of the Assembly, pu, pu, by Vice President Komic never, absolutely, I would ask that in the day of the vote, the majority be declared whether you gave the word to Mrs Comic in accordance with the Rules of Procedure or not, and that it is a Peltzer for all future situations, since you wished to apply the Rules of Procedure. Now that you've loved each other very much, here's an example to you, on the left hand side, so apply that Rules of Procedure. I'm not happy with your explanation because you can't answer me, because you don't have any paper, you don't have a president, you don't have a vice president, you don't have a representative. The representative on this agenda is Marinkovic. There he is in the back row, there. This is part of the session when the presidents and vice presidents of the parliamentary groups have the right to ask a question for the government within five minutes, so that Mrs. Comic received the opposite of the Rules of Procedure, but she said well and warned you, Mrs. Djukic...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-03-0.u29383	Please, my tolerance to you has been going on for 18 or 19 seconds. Mrs. Gordana Komic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-03-0.u29384	Thank you. National MP Tomislav Nikolic, least of all, incorrectly expressed himself and tried to qualify as much as I am or not morally in the assessment of the work of independent institutions and independent branches of government in our society. Mildly speaking imprecisely. It would be good for him to argue with full consciousness and responsibility for a public word as evidence. I've never done anything but what I think all of us Parliamentarians do, and that's to defend this house that makes laws. We're all defending her together. I will never and nowhere ask for anything but the competencies of the MPs, whether they are the ruling majority or the opposition. I received the word thanks to Parliamentarian Miroslav Marinkovic, who is an authorised representative and who in practice – there is, possibly, MP Zoran Krasic right, but is not the first time – empowering one representative of the parliamentary group to ask a question. That's what happened to other parliamentary groups. I am also at the disposal of the presidents of the National Assembly and you in the day of voting to give me a warning measure, both for me and for Mr Miroslav Marinkovic, but I do not feel that I have violated the Rules of Procedure because it is the right to ask a question used by one member of the parliamentary group and for the advantage I have over the other MPs, because I know exactly which MPs from which MPs have equally used their right to be authorised by the president or vice president. National MP Zoran Krasic argues he is offended by my actions. Knowing he's easily offended, I apologize for insulting him for spending five minutes. (More MPs from the opposition, Time). I use the right to replicate. The line to the replica lasts for three minutes. We will all learn the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, whether we apply it or use it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-03-0.u29385	Mr Tomislav Nikolic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-03-0.u29386	It should be said to Mrs. Komic that I was precise enough, except that she does not, as usual, want to be precise enough when she responds to what is being respected. So, Mrs. Komic, this is one item on the agenda, it started yesterday; you have an authorised representative, it is impossible for you to ask the oral question. You could have written the question as a MP, you couldn't have taken the authority of the president of the parliamentary group or the authorised representative. The second thing, you belong to a large group called DOS, which in 2001 forgave all penalties imposed under the Information Law, paid back money to punished media and journalists and invited judges to make a lustration among them against judges who had tried by law and judges who did not. You belong to that group, Mrs. Komic. If you weren't in that group, you wouldn't be vice president of the National Assembly; if you weren't in that group, you wouldn't be able to, whenever you have a session, to harass us in your own special way. So when you're comfortable with that group, you want to be a member of it, and when you don't like it, you don't want to be a member of it. I'm just saying that there's been a change of understanding of morality with you, I didn't say that you had to, or that you had changed something, I just see that you're different in terms of judges: when you're in power, then you're asking them to fully respect the laws you've passed, and at the time you were in opposition, you asked them not to comply with the laws passed by the National Assembly. That's all, Mrs. Comic. Thank you for not speaking to me in the meantime and thinking of having a session again, like you did Mr. Krasic. So you have nothing to talk to Krasic about while you express your position.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-03-0.u29387	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Dragan Shormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-03-0.u29388	I think he's a 104th member and he's been hurt all along. Among other things, I've been involved in this, confessing and receiving criticism. If you're willing to punish me, I'll take the punishment. I simply responded to the commendations you made at the expense of Minister Dacic. Some things should be commended, but it's strange that ten kilos of drugs were found and 100 kilos were poured into the sewer in the whole action. That's what I was reacting to. Mrs Gordana Komic, I have to ask you a question, we have been colleagues for ten years in parliament – you say you defend the dignity of the National Assembly, how do you defend it? I think article 104 has been broken. You are referring to the fact that the judges of the Trade Court have no right to do what they do and that they have no right not to apply some law, and why didn't you call the government? Where's the budget? Why didn't you, as a member of the ruling majority, rise up and say – gentlemen, you are late with a draft budget. The economic crisis is everywhere. In Poland, where there is also an economic crisis, a new budget must be adopted by midnight on September 30th; if it is not, the assembly will disband and will go to new elections. By midnight there was a budget, they didn't mind the economic crisis, they didn't mind special circumstances. That's why I don't think there's any excuse. We are the National Assembly, and I think that you, as chairman, have also compromised the right of the National Assembly, and that is why I call on Article 104. You have nothing to justify to the government, they didn't deliver it to the Assembly. It is yours to protect the Parliament as chairman, not the Government.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-03-0.u29389	Mr. Shormaz, I have no intention of being a government spokesman and I'm the first among the equals here. I had very specific questions from Mr Tomislav Nikolic, whom I answered. The word is Mr. Zoran Krasic. What's the basis, Mr. Krassic?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-03-0.u29390	It can also be a replica, and it can also be a member of 104. (President: Identify yourselves. ) Article 104. Mrs. Comic didn't understand me very well. If I said it was a violation of the Rules of Procedure, I didn't ask Mrs. Comic or, God forbid, you punish yourself. Your infallibility is terribly political to me. You have no idea, when you show up on TV, what the people are saying; they're clean screens right now. I did not insist that Mrs. Comic be punished, but I praised her for noticing that it was not good when the regulations were applied selectively, and not only from the point of view of the court, the prosecution, the government, the ministry, but also the National Assembly. Last time you made a wish, you threw me out, even though I was in my shoes, but that's the historical part. So, I don't want Mrs. Comic to be punished at all, but I wanted to do a majority test, because we have the virus 126, and then will she notice that she's lost you and that there's been some injury and that you haven't reacted in the same way as in other situations. Otherwise, I can't wait for the debate on Rasim Ljajic and these laws to begin. I would ask you not to punish Mrs. Comic at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-03-0.u29391	I conclude that you want the Parliament to make a statement in voting day about whether or not I hurt the Rules of Procedure? Yeah. I thank you, that's how it's gonna be. Mrs. Comic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-03-0.u29392	National MP Tomislav Nikolic has a dilemma about which organisation I belong. I have belonged to the Democratic Party for 20 years, and I am proud to be a member of the Democratic Party. I belong to a political organisation that is strategically prepared for the agreements, for coalitions, for the construction of interpartial dialogue, for taking responsibility for public affairs and for being in government and opposition. The way you've generalized in your replica, you've asked the judges not to respect the law, you've asked for lustration, is the style of speech I'm fighting because it represents generalization, and I want personal responsibility. So I asked you to tell me where and when I asked for the law to be applied indiscriminately, that is, to be applied selectively to some structures or to some interest groups. When it comes to the Law establishing responsibility for human rights violations, a law popularly called the Lustration Law, I have signed that law, and that law in its provisions implies a ban on the exercise of public office for any of those listed in the provisions of the Law establishing responsibility for human rights violations from 1976 to the day of the entry into force of that law. No provision of this law has ever been applied, and the purpose of this law is to establish the personal responsibility of all of us who are in public affairs. Having been in the Democratic Party for twenty years, and 20 members of DOS, and members of the ZES, and members of the coalition Together, and members of the four members of the Assembly and of the two members of the Vojvodina Assembly, I have had enough experience to confirm to myself what was the basic reason why I entered the DS, which is to change the society in which we live, to finish all the jobs left by those who did not want to deal with the serious problems we inherited and to build a society of responsibilities. I have no doubt, MP Tomislav Nikolic, that you essentially share those views with me. I consider every kind of dialogue, including through replicas, a contribution from all of us to establish personal responsibility and to determine the seriousness of public words. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-03-0.u29393	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. Mr. Nikolic, this address has really been highly cultured. No offense, no misunderstanding. You wanted a straight line to the replica? There's no basis for replication. Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-03-0.u29394	You hurt the Rules of Procedure, because Mrs. Komic really didn't understand me, and you didn't, as soon as you said she didn't have the right to reply to a cultured exhibition. I guess we're all supposed to have cultivated exposure, and yet we're supposed to have the right to replication. You can't replicate just if someone curses you. If you're waiting for it, it's hard. So when I'm not understood by Mrs. Comic, I need you to... First of all, Mrs. Comic told the lie, it is not true that the lustration was not done. It was executed at the university. How many professors lost their regular profession, no extracurriculars, so they're on the street? The pure lustration is applied. The law is applied at the university. You've done different in courts -- two or three times you've had re-elections and now you've got lustration. Now you'll choose all the judges. Mrs. Comic, the Information Act, which was asked by the Democratic Party not to be respected... It is possible that you, as a representative of another power in the Democratic Party, were not against that requirement, but Boris Tadic asked that the Information Law be ignored. If you are opposed to the ideas of Boris Tadic, that's fine. You can even be advanced, because we share the same values, only I think the way the DS does it is wrong, there's a lot of crime, bribery and corruption. You haven't done all the work. You haven't sold everything you had to sell yet. Everything that had to be robbed hasn't been robbed yet. We have not yet resolved the status of Kosovo and Metohija, and for six years you have fled from that status, counting that somehow quietly to create Kosovo and Metohija independence. We have yet to resolve what it is in Vojvodina that you in the Democratic Party really want, what relationship of Vojvodina and Serbia, did your coalition partner make it clear yesterday that without the basic attributes that Vojvodina as a state should have there is no support for the law on the transfer of jurisdiction. You're, like, a wonderful person to me...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-03-0.u29395	Thank you. Mr. Zoran Ostojić, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-03-0.u29396	I'm advocating, Madam President, a violation of Article 104, the dignity of the Assembly. I think that the controversy between Mrs. Comic, members, let's say, parties that advocate pro-European Serbia, Mr. Nikolic, members of a party that is pro-European in an attempt, we will see, violates Parliament's dignity because they talk about lustration law and other laws that, like, do not apply or have been ordered not to apply. Ms. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, I remind you that the lustration law exists. It was adopted in 2003. Those who wrote it made it inapplicable for the situation, because when a lustration commission of nine opposition members is formed, they must give one. Those who wrote the law knew that the opposition would not give one, and the law would be inadmissible. Mrs. Slavic, stop this discussion. If we mention a lustration, one of which is creeped out, and someone is nice (I'm the other one), the law exists and until it is abolished should be applied. It's not supposed to be the subject of controversy who called for lustration, but who's against lustration, but you, as president of the Assembly, form a lustration commission. We're the opposition, and we're ready to give that member. It depends on you and most of you whether after six years of passing that law will begin to apply. Then we won't listen to these polemics that, in my opinion, violate Parliament's dignity. I remind you that the lustration law is one of the European laws waiting for us on the way. All normal companies that have come out of totalitarianism and are heading towards market economy have passed a lustration law. It's part of facing the past. The fact that Serbia, in addition to the work that all eastern countries have done, has another part, and these are war crimes, is our problem, but let's, let's finish at least what we brought in 2003.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-03-0.u29397	The parliamentary majority and each government have their priorities and a real agenda of their own activities as priorities. Mrs. Comic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-03-0.u29398	MP Tomislav Nikolic, the content of your speech is what I fight against. It is the ease of irresponsibility of major political claims. The sentence you have spoken – Boris Tadic has ordered that the law not be applied. Either you will prove that sentence or you will apologize to Serbian President Boris Tadic and say that in the heat of a replica exchange with a member of parliament you have thoughtlessly told the truth, it is happening, and it is not a matter that we should further replicate. If that were true, then Serbia's president would seriously violate his constitutional powers. As I believe it is a very serious violation of the jurisdiction of an independent branch of government to go public with judges who claim that some of the provisions of the law, any law, will not apply. I have no doubt that, as a passionate speaker, you gave a careless statement that Boris Tadic ordered the non-application of the law. I know that this passion, which leads to a political struggle, is necessary for someone to really have public support, but a line that doesn't cross, a line that doesn't touch is our own awareness of how much influence our public word has and what responsibility all of us are for the public word that we express here in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-03-0.u29399	Mr Tomislav Nikolic, replica. I really ask that today after Mr. Nikolic's presentation, we begin work.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-03-0.u29400	I don't carry on these replicas. That goes on, Mrs. Comic. Mrs. Comic, Boris Tadic is not the president of Serbia from Christ to this day. I'm talking about a time when he wasn't president of Serbia, when he was head of your party's parliamentary group, so please... First, I have nothing to apologize to the president, the president should apologize to the citizens of Serbia. I am not here to apologize to the President of the Republic. Then you would have to apologize at least to these socialists here, since for you Slobodan Milosevic, as president of Serbia, was always a dictator, he was a Balkan butcher and like this all the time. Did it occur to you that it was an insult to the President of the Republic? You didn't care. That's how I feel about Boris Tadic now. I don't care what he thinks about my discussions. I'm looking to beat him, not apologize to him.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-03-0.u29401	I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending MPs Aleksandra Jankovic, Radoslav Mojsilović, Nikola Lazic, Milica Radovic and Zeljko Tomic. According to Article 88(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, in addition to the representatives of Prime Minister Milan Markovic, Minister Mladjan Dinkic, Minister Rasim Ljajic and Zarko Obradovic, I invited the sittings to attend Vesna Kovac, State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, Zoran Martinovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, Milica Dražic, Assistant Minister of State Administration and Local Self-Government Igor Vukanski, Assistant Minister for State Administration and Local Self-Government, Dejan Radulovic of the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, Zeljko Curguz, Senior Advisor at the Republic Secretariat for Law. We're continuing our work. We are moving on to a joint principled search of the 9-11th agenda – THE PROPOSALS ON THE AMENDMENTS OF THE LAWS ON THE COUNTRY OF COUNTRY AND THE DETERMINATION OF THE MAXIMALY MANAGES IN THE REPUBLIC AND LOCAL ADMINISTRATIVES (continuation) The Word has a National MP, Mr Zoran Shami, representative of the DSS Group - Vojislav Kostunica.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-03-0.u29402	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Minister, we have three laws before us that seem to be similar to an uninformed reader, but they are, in fact, completely different. On the one hand, we have a law on civil servants, which I would call a normal law. When I say "normal" I don't think it's ideal, he has his shortcomings. It's simply a law worth discussing, which, let me say, can be improved by reasonable amendments. Something more about the law, the DSS stance, will be presented later by Mr Palalic. As for the other two laws, I have to say that I can't find a good enough attribute to qualify them, and that I remain fundamentally decent. In fact, the logic of these laws is about like this – it rains and then, instead of opening an umbrella so you don't get wet, you pass a law banning rain; these are the two laws. The people have a saying, when some inadequate means try to achieve a goal: “The slaughter is for a kilo of meat. ” Here, unfortunately, he's slaughtering himself for nothing. I will try to state the view of the Democratic Party of Serbia why we think so. Both laws, and a law on the maximum number of workers in the Republic administration and a law on the maximum number of workers in the local administration, are based on some assumptions given as deus ex machina. It's said to be working 28,400 workers. I'm sorry, I don't see any reason why it wouldn't be, it doesn't come out of the law, 27,000 workers or 29,000 workers; 35 and 25, we can bid as much as you want. Why 28,400? Or, if it's about that other law, why are four employees of 1,000 people, I'm going to comment a little later, not, say, five or three? You can't see the reason, there's no reason. You can't tell by the procedure that led to that number. To be clear, no one reasonable has anything against making an effective and rational administration. We're also all aware of the fact that we can't be satisfied with the current state of affairs and that there's a lot to be done to sort of put this in order. It's also some part of the way to Europe, in which we always swear. Of course, we will talk a little bit more through the amendments we've given to this when there's a debate in particular, but it's a fundamental observation why exactly 28,400 and why four to 1,000; and no one explained those numbers. The other thing is, we want to save money, to cut spending, so we're not going to do it right now, but we're going to do it in a few years, yeah. Let's take a look at that math. If we had received the draft budget, by law, today I could have qualified to tell you what the budget deficit is. There's been some information in the media that it's going to be about a hundred billion dinars. Make it a hundred billion dinars. Let's round up, that's about a billion euros. It's a budget deficit. A discharge from the state administration of 3,400 workers is planned. Some have a net salary of 30,000, they don't, but let's assume it's 30,000 for workers, so it's a monthly savings of 1 million euros, in a year it's 12 million euros, or 1.2% of the budget deficit. Is that right? It's not. First, 12m euros will appear less in consumption. The state, if nothing else, will lose 18% of the VAT of the 12m euros. Furthermore, the state would have to, she wouldn't, cover the social cases that would undoubtedly arise and make certain donations. When you add all that up and subtract the question is, will there be any savings, not permanently, but immediately? Very often, when you run out of arguments, you call on the EU, so yesterday we had the opportunity to hear from Mr Dinkic that, behold, they had EU standards in mind. Speaking of Mr Dinkic, I have a lot of understanding for his health problems; and I would be sick if I had proposed such laws. Let's look at those EU standards. (Milica Vojić-Markovic, from the place: There is a question whether it is an older chicken or an egg? Yes, it's an interesting question of what's older, chicken or egg. So, on the one hand, the European Union is undoubtedly richer than we are and certainly can pay more civil servants than we do. Here, I'll give you a specific example. In Germany, Bundestag, on one MP, which is normally 600, there are four employees in the administration. We have the number of employees in this assembly (ma'am, I'm sorry if I missed by one number) 349; and let 350, on 250 MPs, therefore, be significantly less. Do we now, because in the European Union the standard is one to four, we should have a thousand employees in the Assembly? Probably not, because we're not that rich. On the other hand, we still have big jobs, which the EU does not have. If nothing else, there is no EU Office for EU Association, and of course there must be; thousands and thousands of different regulations must be agreed, conventions and all that the EU countries have done in the 1990s. We did what we did, all of it has to be made up. Therefore, these are two completely different principles, of course, one pulling on one side, the other pulling on the other side, which only indicate that you cannot directly refer to EU standards in this sphere. As for the law on local administration, the right to tell you, the provisions of this law simply offend common sense. I have already questioned the principle of “four per thousand, ” but there are completely different things. Here, I'll count some. First, there are a number of jobs that have nothing to do with the number of residents in the municipality at all. You in every municipality have to have a mothermaker, in every municipality you have to have someone who takes care of the cemetery. It doesn't matter whether there are 3,000, 33,000 or 333,000 people living in that municipality, or if you have one funeral a week or 100 funerals a day; it doesn't matter, you have to have one particular service, so you do. I can list these jobs for you by noon today. Second, a dozen municipalities in Serbia are municipalities that have developed tourism. There must, of course, be services that will serve a significantly greater number of citizens than the number of those who are formally resident in the municipality. Because a number of people for months, since there are houses on Zlatibor, the Bather, there-there, in Sokobanja, there are plenty of... Yesterday, Mr Balint, it seems very correct, noticed that in municipalities where bilingualism or multilingualism is mandatory, it naturally burdens the municipal administration and that there must be more people employed there, etc. There's something else to keep in mind. At least two-thirds of Serbia's municipalities, my dear government gentlemen and government officials, have no other employees but those in the state service. Is that clear to you? Under the state service, of course, there is also something that this law does not touch, it is education, health care, police, judiciary and local administration. There are no other employees. Maybe some, and you work mostly on black, cafes, kiosks, etc. There's nothing else. These are not small municipalities of two or three thousand inhabitants, but serious cities, Svilianac, for example. There's a lot of examples like that. What do we do now? Fire all those people? And then what? Should we open the soup kitchens? Why? I ask the question why? I explained to you that the profit of it is none. Instead, and instead of these, I can't say what kind of law, it wouldn't be polite, which offends common sense, we don't mind defining a normal procedure to get an optimal number of employees in the state administration. On the one hand, that this administration works properly, and on the other hand, to take care of some elemental social elements, people who may be a year or two ahead of retirement, etc., to find some solutions, that can always be found. Of course, much in these laws indicates that people will be judged not by their real value, but by other factors. I'm afraid that's how it's gonna be. But even if we put that aside, let's do it, we did it through the amendments and we suggested, you'll see, we'll talk more about it when there's a debate in detail... The Democratic Party of Serbia has even proposed to change the titles of these laws, not to "determin the maximum number", but -- the procedure, the law on the procedure for determining the number of employees in the administration, and one law and another. It is defined to first start from seeing what different factors are like, starting with the ministries, agencies, etc., that then one commission, with the mandatory participation of the union, of course, see what is definitely and then we'll get to the number. Is that number 28,400, 30,000, 25,000, as far as it goes, let it go, but then it's some reasonable procedure that this congregation might accept. In the end, I'm going to say I'm going to deny myself. Several times in passing various laws over the past few months, I have wrongly found that the law in question is the worst of all. However, the government has always denied me, it is able to make even worse laws. So now I'm not going to say that this is definitely the worst law, it can easily happen that in a few months we get someone worse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-03-0.u29403	I thank Mr. Shami. I would like to inform you that, under Article 93(4), they are in agreement. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, until the opening of a joint principled search for a written word, with a number of MPs, submitted: The Parliamentary Group of Minorities, New Serbia, SPS, LDP, ZES, Forward Serbia, DSS and the SRS. I give my word to MP Riza Halimi, and Mr Miroslav Markicevic is next.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-03-0.u29404	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, Mr Ministers and Representatives of the Government, in any case I support these laws in terms of increasing the efficiency of the work of the state administration, increasing rationalisation, equating the criteria for employees in local self-government, with which, of course, there are many objections. You've heard one from the president of our group, Mr. Balint, and it's about applying bilingualism, or multilingualism. I have an amendment that goes towards an existing injustice that seems to be a certain number of municipalities that have more people who have stayed abroad for more than a year. The draft law for the maximum number of employees in the local self-government provides that this number is to be accounted for on the basis of the data from the last census carried out in 2002. You know that for the first time, unlike all the lists in earlier periods, it is a practice that for the official data on the number of residents of individual municipalities not everyone who stays abroad for more than a year is counting. These people, this part of the population, in fact, has intensive contact with local administrations, as regards public documents and the Constitution of the envisaged rights that they also exercise with the authorities of local self-government and, of course, certain state bodies. These jobs are to be done, and these solutions are absolutely to those municipalities where this number is more pronounced... For example, Presevo is about 27% of the population. The municipal census board there had data – 48,000 inhabitants of this municipality, and the official one at the end of that year (the 2002 census) was – 35,000, because the number of people who stayed abroad for more than a year was about 13,000. They and how they're dealing, I repeat, with officials, in general, doing a number of jobs with that administration. This has not yet been accounted for in the transfer of funds for regular work, and now this practice puts the municipality in an unequal position when it comes to the maximum number of employees in local self-government. When it comes to the problem of bilingualism, Parliamentarian Balint Pastor well explained the problem of bilingualism. It is quite understandable that all municipalities do not have that problem, and we must not take them under one pattern, and that should be corrected. For a long time, there are problems in the field; I'm only expanding it, not only local self-government, but also state authorities. Take, for example, municipal courts, the municipal court that needs to implement constitutional and legal standards and allow one citizen, a minority member, to conduct the procedure alongside both Serbian and Albanian. It's a double job. It's an increase in the volume of work. What's the practice? Yes, judges and courts resort to one language, even though the Constitution and the law are clear. Then we come across the next solution, for example, when it comes to Presevo and Bujanovac – the parties do not ask for their constitutional and legal right to be conducted in their own language. There's something wrong, it's not right; it's not possible that everyone wants to go through this line of less resistance, they don't want to, in some sense, resent the judge, by making it difficult for him to act and making it work twice and then giving up their own Constitution of guaranteed right to use their language in that sphere. I think it's a serious matter and that in practice we don't apply what's in theory, what the Constitution predicts, what the law guarantees. Furthermore, there is a problem involving minorities in state institutions. If it continues with this practice that this specificity is not recognised, we will not, who knows how long, allow the constitutional right to effective participation of minorities in state institutions, in public life. Because practice looks different. Mr. Pastor referred to the government's 2006 conclusions, and I now refer to the 2001 programme, and to the federal and republican governments, which was confirmed this year in March when we signed the reorganisation of the Co-ordination Body, which speaks of the involvement of Albanians in state bodies and institutions. Of course there isn't, if we don't regulate exactly the State Administration Act, the Civil Service Act, that obligation to even minorities... It is necessary to find a way, not only through some propaganda measures, some programmes, but must be incorporated into a legislative normative that these obligations of society relating to multiethnicity and in practice be so. Although this amendment cannot be brought into line with this occasion, it is time for what we have predicted in the Constitution, what we have predicted by the laws to finally begin to apply in practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-03-0.u29405	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Miroslav Markicevic, and let Mr Miletic Mihajlovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-03-0.u29406	Dear President, Mr. Minister, honourable fellow MPs and respected citizens of Serbia who are watching this direct transmission, on behalf of the New Serbia Parliament Club, I have a few words to say about the draft law on the agenda and to open a number of questions. In the people, these two laws that I want to comment on, about the maximum number of employees at the local and republican level, are popularly referred to as the laws on firing workers. The basic question, which is characteristic of all of us here, including the citizens of Serbia, in many political and other social issues, is raised – why now and for what? I think that the Government of the Republic of Serbia, or the legislator of this law, would have been much more convincing if this law had proposed among the first to arrive and to establish the Government. So, this looks like an extortionary measure, which stems from so far failed negotiations with the IMF. Last time in a discussion concerning the IMF, I wanted to remind you of a scene of talks by the then finance minister from the ruling coalition, which I belonged to in 2005 with the New Serbia Parliament Group. Out of courtesy and loyalty to that man and that conversation we've had, I'm not going to repeat now what kind of dictionary he used and what he said about the IMF at the time. However, the statement made by the Finance Minister at the time was that we needed to complete the arrangement with the IMF as soon as possible, that we were at war with these lenders, because they had never brought happiness and improvement to any state and state's citizens anywhere in history. Just to remember Argentina and the Argentine script. Any state that has any other solution avoids any agreement with the IMF. Citizens are explained why these laws are put on the agenda – we do not have enough money. The question arises, if we had enough money in the budget, to fill the budget, as it is not charged, would these laws be on the agenda at all? I don't think so. I said earlier -- if the government really thought it was European by the number of these officials in the local and republican administration, it would have brought it right away, because it is a pro-European government, it is one of the European laws. I'm saying there's plenty of money. It's just that so-called. social distribution unfair. The people say good: the fish smell of the head, but the tail is clean. We repeat, for the last nine years, and for the last 20 years and for the last 50 years, the same injustice – that cars break down on the weak and the powerless. In doing so, I don't count people who are on the party line. Mr. Minister Rasim Ljajic is here today. If I remember his statement well from a few days ago, in his sector, therefore, in the social policy sector, there are about two billion surpluses. How is it possible that more and more hungry and there are two billion surpluses in the sector? Either that money wasn't used properly, or now we want to be modern, current and attach that money to the IMF altar that was supposed to be used for social purposes? Since we are witnessing that in the media, the regimeal, private media leaders, in particular members of Boris Tadic's cabinet, the popular flossula "from sources close to the MUP", from sources close to this, and New Serbia has some sources close to the IMF, for the first time I exclusively want to say here, and someone responsible to say that it is not true what I am saying. During the past, failed talks with the International Monetary Fund, you remember well, media announced that these talks were successfully completed, then on the 15th day that there were some problems, then on the 30th day that there were even bigger problems, and on the 45th day, it was said that these talks failed and that the IMF was looking for something. I have information from a source close to the International Monetary Fund – whether it is correct, competent to confirm, deny or silence – that the IMF has requested a reduction in the number of ministries. So, the IMF asked for the government of the Republic of Serbia to split, to fire half of the ministers. There is only one country in the world that has more ministries than the Government of the Republic of Serbia, that is India, but we know that India has over a billion inhabitants. Then Mr. Mirko Cvetkovic and ministers offered heads and social status and the lives of several thousand families. Is that true? On the basis of how the talks are being conducted and how these laws were made, I have the indication that I doubt that, especially since the other day on some of my issues, which were intended only to see where people's money is, because some people do business with public enterprises without a tender, and no one responds to that... I'm saying there's enough money to keep people from getting fired and that everyone who's hungry has enough to eat. There's money, but some don't have enough 20m euros, or 50m, or 100m euros, or 200m euros, they want billions, and the people want to starve. I don't know, gentlemen of the government, how long do you think this will last? If I focus directly on the provisions of the law, let's say, when it comes to local self-government, I must proudly mention the city I come from, the town of Cachak. There's a New Serbia in power for 13 years. If we wanted to hire a party, we could have done it in 13 years. The city administration, according to the provisions of this law relating to local self-government, when it comes to the town of Cačka and the municipality of Topola (where is also one of the vice presidents of New Serbia in power), according to the people, minus. It's in Chačka, I mean, minus 51. So, under the provisions of this law, they would have the right to employ 51 more workers, but that won't be possible until 2011. Where's the justice? Why isn't there a law that says they can't hire another worker by 2011. Why is it not increased through local transfers to those municipalities that worked domestically, respect the provisions of the law which requires local self-government to be the service of citizens? Why are we punishing these municipalities? Does anyone think about 40 more developed municipalities affecting a third of the territory of the Republic of Serbia? The other day, the minister wouldn't take them in. She told the presidents of the municipalities from her party – go home, we'll sort it out somehow. Isn't that selectivity? Isn't that political discrimination, because some president of another party's municipality, there's no transfer for him? Where's the solidarity? We must have solidarity with undeveloped areas. With various historical circumstances, or because of the geographical position of some municipalities, they remained undeveloped over decades and centuries, not because people there are less smart than we are from Belgrade, Cacca or Topola, but because of some historical and geographical circumstances. We have to help these people. No one cares... Here, today we're looking out the window, it's snowing. Winter's coming before we all hoped. What are these people going to do when they can't pay for basic functions, or pay for basic functions in these municipalities? The law just needs to be passed, offered to the IMF – we're doing something, we're saving something, give that money. We still don't know what the subject of these negotiations is, because no one, not the Prime Minister or the competent ministers, has come to parliament since the start of talks with the IMF to say -- the government's cashier is in such a situation, the economic situation is like that; there's both objective and subjective guilt, or something the government isn't guilty of, and that's the economic crisis, and that's the responsibility we share here together. Do you think there are no people here in the opposition who would support something that is in the interest of the citizens? But you have to prove that you are working in the interests of most Serbian citizens, not individuals. Individuals in all this crisis earn hundreds of millions of euros. Mr. Ljajic, does that hurt? They're coming. Why don't you as Social Policy Minister make an agency with 11 employees, like Srdjan Saper, who is now among the 102 largest Serbs in history, with Karadjordje, with Nikola Tesla, with Pupina, to vote this poor people? With the money taken from this people, through public enterprises sucked out of the budget. That's why we have what we have in electronic media. What we're talking about in a direct transmission can't be lifted, except to shut down and let some cyclists go. But there isn't. In cultural and civilised countries, with governments solidarity with citizens, as they are now living, would be a special show. How is it possible for someone to earn hundreds of millions of euros? "Telecom", it is the firm, Mr Ljajic, to remind you, which last year has raised the price of services to the citizens 63% and has shown a profit of 120,000,000 euros. I doubt that money's in those people's private pockets. I'm just giving you one example, where there's enough money to find, so there's no more empty plates in Serbia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-03-0.u29407	Mr. Minister Rasim Ljajic. Just sign in, please, Mr. Minister. Here you go, Mr. Minister, you have your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-03-0.u29408	Without the intention of plowing with MP Markicevic, I just want to make a few clarifications. First of all, as far as these two billion surpluses are concerned, I said we'd save two billion from the 2009 budget. Of which, a billion and a half are going to change the law on which to change the basis for determining maternity leave, and another five hundred million dinars at the position of material costs (so, representation, telephone, reduction of labour contract). These are the two billion, which are not surpluses, but will be savings compared to the 2009 budget. As far as the IMF is concerned, I can tell you that on several occasions during these negotiations, and also several previous negotiations, I have had the opportunity to talk, and there has been no talk at all about any of the suggestions that you have made, which the IMF allegedly presented. The International Monetary Fund came with its proposal to achieve largely a result that would reduce the budget deficit, stressing that this is not their ultimate proposal or position, but a measure they consider credible enough and will give results in a short period of time, but that it will accept any measure of the Government of the Republic of Serbia if it is adequately explained and economic support. Is this an extortional measure? You're probably right. It is an extortional measure, not because of the IMF pressure, but because of the fact that no government since 2000 has done what we all know has to be done. Perhaps this crisis was a reason to move forward with the realization of what is necessary. Are the criteria the best? Any criteria if they were established, they would be the reason for controversy. And just and unwarranted. But it had to come from something. I agree with you completely that the whole process must be carried out in such a way as to make it more socially justified, if possible, that these people still get both satisfactory severance and the possibility of finding a new job. This is a topic where we can settle until tomorrow, because nobody likes to do this. This is extremely unpopular, which is actually the way you talk about layoffs, as you said, it's the law of layoffs. It's just, there's a line that had to go under somewhere. This government has decided to enter this business, however politically sensitive, unpopular, because it is not just these people's fates, but their families, which is not a small number.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-03-0.u29409	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Markicevic, you have another minute.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-03-0.u29410	I want a replica to Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-03-0.u29411	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-03-0.u29412	Mr. Ljajic, I really don't want to fight with you guys here, but I have to notice that you've skipped to comment on the main thing I wanted; I may have been vague. You yourself said there were 300 state secretaries in the I don't know how many ministries. It would be easier for citizens to swallow this if you said... It would have been easier for us to accept this as an opposition if you'd set an example as a minister. Maybe not you personally. You know exactly what you face when you go after Serbia and try to solve some problems. By the way, make a few more parties, but okay, it's all politics. That's what I'm asking you. Why didn't you sit in the government and say -- people, 28 ministries, 25 ministries; we're the biggest government, 300 secretaries, 500 assistants, 5,000 advisors. Why didn't you do it? You're avoiding the answer to that. Maybe you're not the most responsible, maybe that's why they sent you here, because you've been consciously accepting the role of some victim in various difficult political situations for nine years. But it's your choice, you wanted to come here yourself. Those who were supposed to come here didn't come today, and twice we don't have sessions. How much does that cost? How many empty plates could...? When the public and the media know how to warn the MPs, rightly, to make themselves known, they should now do the same with ministers. There is no comment in any electronic media that the ministers have not arrived. I insist on this. I really don't want any controversy with you. Why don't you explain why the number of ministries hasn't been reduced, the number of state secretaries? You took political points from the citizens of Serbia because you made that clear. Did you honestly say that then or now, what do you think now? Let's take this off the agenda, add it up, cut the number of ministries in half, that's enough. That's what you said yourself. Let's do it and make it easier for some citizens. Especially since we won't have to give these ministers severances. You know, when a minister loses his ministry, his term lasts for two or three years anyway, and when someone loses a job in a municipality or a republican administration, he loses it for life. You can see it's not the same. Prove what you said in front of all Serbian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-03-0.u29413	Thank you. Mr. Rasim Ljajic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-03-0.u29414	I will easily agree with you that the government is too bulky and should be reduced. Unfortunately, I have four MPs in this House; when I have more and more influence, I will be able to influence the government in a different way to be far smaller. As for the number of state secretaries and assistants, when the government adopted the bill, it also concluded and recommended that all ministries propose a rationalisation of the number of state secretaries and assistants. I told myself that I had too many state secretary and assistants and that I had made a plan, and that I would have two State Secretarys and four assistants in the future and that I would propose it to the government.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-03-0.u29415	Thank you. Mr Miletic Mihajlovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-03-0.u29416	Dear Presidents, members of the presidency, Mr Minister, co-workers of the ministries, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the SPS Group - JS will certainly support these laws, primarily for the reasons that any pre-named administration is not in the interest of citizens, states or local environments. They have to be well organized, efficient, cheap enough, in one word - optimal. On the other hand, it will certainly help to create assumptions for the creation of developmental urban and municipal budgets. In any case, things will go in some other direction. But I've talked about another aspect before, and that aspect has surfaced here in its full size. It is about that permanent population taken as a criterion for determining certain parameters based on which a local environment is exercising its right, whether it is about the amount of transfer, whether it is about the number of employees in the local administration, whether it is about the number of judges, the number of employees in health institutions, etc. Problems arise in 2002 when, on the basis of the recommendation (I stress - recommendations) of the international community, the number of residents who are resident here, rather than those who are on temporary work abroad, counts. This problem is particularly big in eastern Serbia in many municipalities, particularly in the municipalities that are lagging behind, which have a weak material base, which have no assumptions for further development, for employment, which have a negative rate of growth, from which many people go to larger centres. In particular, the municipality from which I come, Petrovac at Mlava, has one third of the residents who are on temporary work abroad; some 12,000 people do not count, as if they do not exist. I'd say the unrecognized residents of the Petrovic municipality are on the Mlava. The situation in Negotin is even more difficult in some other municipalities in eastern Serbia. This apparition of me is not a matter of opposition or positional action; it is a fundamental problem, which we must face. Mr. Minister, I trust in the power of your authority, that on certain occasions when this issue is discussed in the Government, this issue is seriously considered. In particular, the local administration and how it serves these 12,000 people. It's about people who pay taxes. For example, the tax departments that are formed in the municipality charge a tax on property to physical and private persons, where there are certainly these 12,000 people. They charge communal taxes, charge city building land, and the owners of city building land are these people. When it comes to all other services related to urban conditions, licensing, birth certificates, citizenship, various overarchies, administrative taxis, etc., the local administration equally serves these citizens. To make things worse, these people are on the electoral list, they have their permanent residence in their municipality, and the municipality is recognised by fewer residents than there are on the polling list. It's a really big absurd thing. Of course, this also affects other important parameters, e.g. to the height of the transfer. When it comes to this, we have a volunteer approach – at certain times taking a rapper like this, as one criterion, and at other times there are other reasons, perhaps politically, that these transfers are increasing, etc. Is it possible that, on the basis of one recommendation from Western countries, one such cut, one such approach that maims even more, leads to an unfavourable situation and a local environment and humiliates, so to speak, those inhabitants? They bring huge money and make a significant item in creating the country's foreign reserves, and they're unrecognized, as if they don't exist. Of course, this problem is faced by state authorities, not just local administration. Do you know how much trouble there is only the MUP in issuing public documents, which is now under way? We, as a local environment, have made an effort to create better material and technical conditions and help the MUP serve these citizens that the state does not recognise. That parameter of four per thousand is not controversial. According to us, it can be smaller, but it is a controversial way of calculating the number of inhabitants taken in determining certain belongings belonging to local self-government. I think that this approach, which concerns not only this law, but also other laws, other conclusions, decisions, etc., is not in line with the Law on Equal Regional Development and Regionalisation of Serbia, which aims to bring these regions into line. This approach goes absolutely in the diametric, in the other direction, compared to what is the spirit of the Law on Equal Regional Development. Certainly, as a parliamentary group, we will do everything possible to address this issue and the Association of Cities and municipalities and, above all, to take the initiative into their own hands to the municipalities facing this problem. It is a real number of inhabitants, which make a significant contribution to both the state and local environments. This isn't about fictitious residents who came just for some reason to apply, it's about people who have huge money and huge influence, and we have to solve it differently. I hope that this thinking of our parliamentary group and the apparition of this will reach the ears of Minister Dinkic, Finance Minister Dragutinovic and other ministers, who will make the issue of what belongs to these municipalities, which are really in a difficult situation because of this problem, rightly resolved. This favors other, larger centers, where we have a larger inflow. Even students who leave our midst to larger cities will not count on the number of inhabitants; they will give increased standards for various things, and also for increasing the administration in larger cities. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-03-0.u29417	The People's MP Zoran Ostojic has the word, and let the MP Miroslav Marinkovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-03-0.u29418	Dear Presidents, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues, although they are asking for this country to be less spent and to be thrifty, the Liberal Democratic Party cannot accept this law and vote for it, because this law is a blow to the middle class. That might seem strange because we're looking for a reduction in public spending, this is a seemingly reduction in public spending, so we're not voting. It's not weird. I'm just going to try to show citizens some numbers how much this law isn't what this country needs. The other day, Minister Dragutinovic said it is unknown how 130 billion dinars are being spent; 130 billion dinars are roughly budget deficits for this year. That's 4% of gross social product. It's a huge sum. Translated into euro, it is about a billion and four hundred million euros. The effects of this law, if, say, these 8,000 people are fired and they have an average gross salary of 60,000 dinars per year, are about four hundred and eighty million dinars or just over five million euros. Compare these 130,000,000 dinars or 1,400,000 euros and these 480,000,000 or 5 million euros. That's 0.4, that's 250 times less than what goes into someone's pockets, into corruption or, after all, into the right things, but the state has no insight. Public finances in Serbia have many secrets. While that is the case, this nation will pay an expensive and inefficient state. The Liberal-Democratic Party submitted to this parliament another spring a bill on reducing the number of ministries to 12. Not a word of it from the government. On the other hand, they compare the number of employees in local self-government units in this law to the European average and draw the parallel from it, but have not compared the number of ministry employees, the number of ministers with some average in Europe, and the people know it. That's why we think this is an attack on the middle class, and it won't bring the effects that Serbia needs, because it's just all expensive here, the state takes what it needs, and it needs a lot because it is, after all, the price of this coalition. That's why this law is only a partial, partial solution, and in the end I'm going to show on some examples that it's also quite superficially done. It hasn't touched public enterprises, and that's the problem. Public enterprises, six public enterprises, NIS, EPS, JAT, Vreoci Mine (no, Telekom has won), saw a loss of 650,000 euros last year. Just last year. In the past few years, the loss has reached nearly four billion euros. It will sometimes fall on the burden when privatisation occurs; the state will take the debts to get a higher price and will pay the citizens of Serbia. We, gentlemen, are standing in front of a dilemma whether we will pay bigger taxes or our children. Someone wants to pass it on to our children; we from LDP want this generation, which has brought the country here, to do it. We have proposed comprehensive measures, we have proposed a plan. We are for reducing public spending from the current 46, for one four years, to below 40, and if God gives to 36. It's not just the confiscation of acquired rights, it's the development, because the share of public spending is shrinking, although the economy is growing. But you're not ready for such a plan, a comprehensive vision of it, but you pulled this out, left public enterprises behind. Compare the effects of this law against losses in public enterprises: last year, I remind you, 650 million, and the effects of this law, with eight thousand employees, with the last salary of 60,000 gross, five million. There's no honesty here in order to reduce public spending. If it were honesty, you would have already accepted our proposal that the government had 12 ministries. This is a fake in front of the International Monetary Fund. In this situation, you may, as I say, cheat them, because they are not so busy pushing them to the end in this economic situation, but the state of Serbia, the citizens of Serbia and the middle class will not benefit from this. We want a comprehensive reform of public finances. We want a reform of public enterprises. It's a rock foundation of the party state. These officials you're going to fire by this law are not the essence of this party state and the party hydra, which this country or this administration has become in these... I don't care what happened before 2000, but you, Mr. Ljajic, are with your colleague Tomica Milosavljevic, in all governments since 2000. Everything you've got to blame, blame yourself and those you've been with in the government. We think there are some solutions to this law... For example, in an analysis of 145 municipalities, you said 35 units of local self-government don't have to fire because they have fewer, but you're a member of 10. "knocked," they can no longer work, up to four per thousand they can't come. You punished those who acted domestically, and on the other hand, some coalition partners who said they wouldn't fire you gave them the right not to fire, and they paid it out of their own income. For example, you have at least two presidents of the coalition community. This means that citizens of these municipalities will pay larger municipal services to fund the surplus employees in these units of local self-government. When it comes to these bill proposals, they are most suited to a folk proverb that says, "cut your ears..." I won't finish it. Therefore, the LDP for this partial solution cannot vote, on behalf of the middle class; and we are for reduction, when you are ready for a comprehensive plan, we will be happy to help you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-03-0.u29419	The word has been given by Parliamentarian Miroslav Marinkovic, followed by MP Zoran Masic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-03-0.u29420	I'll just take a minute. Your Honor, Madam Chairman, in my presentation yesterday, I mostly said what I meant. However, I would fully agree with my colleague from Petrovec at Mlava, especially as regards this law on rationalisation and reduction of the number of employees in local self-government, and this parameter on the basis of which it is calculated how many people can be employed, or how many will remain. The municipality from which I come, the municipality of Svilajnac, has already been rationalized, and now, according to this, we have come into a situation where more people have to be fired. But, realistically, we have seven and a half thousand people we serve. During the summer months, the municipal administration also worked on Saturdays and Sundays to allow them to obtain documents that are now in the replacement phase. I ask the competent ministry to keep this in mind and to find the possibility that this budget (we agree to be four promiscations) should be calculated against the real number that exists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-03-0.u29421	The People's Messenger Zoran Mašić has the word, and after him is the Messenger of the people, Djordje Milicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-03-0.u29422	Dearly respected Presidency, Mr. Ministers and Co-workers from the ministries, in front of the Prosperity Group, I will brief Serbia's view and vision of these laws and their effects, above all in relation to the budget and rationalisation in this regard. When we talk about rationalization, my first regret to the ministers who explained yesterday is that we should have been told more specifically to the MPs and to our public what is the primary reason for the adoption of these laws and the implementation of rationalization. Because this government, in one form or another, has essentially been a government since 2000 and has not seriously entered this business. Although there have been attempts in the past, in 2002 and 2004, to streamline public administration, state administration and local self-government remained only in decisions. From year to year, the number of executives and employees in these state institutions has been increased, both at the level of the Republic and in local self-government. It should have been clearly said here that under the pressure of the IMF, with a requirement to enter into a serious rationalisation and budgetary savings, the government adopted proposals for these laws, primarily on the rationalisation of local self-government, but also on state administration. We are under pressure to pass laws that will essentially involve losing our jobs for a certain number of citizens, and on the other hand, only a year and a half ago, a pompous increase in employment has been announced and there is no mention of the possibility of layoff in public services. Most of our citizens were convinced (it is such today's belief) that those who are employed in the state sector have secured jobs from employment to retirement; however, times change. This power, I hope, will not only bring these laws, but also implement them. I have a skeptic that those who have proposed these laws will do so; only under the pressure of the IMF do we satisfy the form, we pass the laws, but implementation and implementation will surely go hard. There is no good will, because, above all, by the ministries and ministers who have appeared here, then they should tell all of us here and our public – here, in this government, state or state administration there are 239 state secretaries and ministerial assistants; as Government, as the first measure of rationalisation, we suggest that of 100 and some ministerial assistants in all ministries, we reduce the number of assistants to that and that number to half; and the number of state secretaries, which are about a hundred, will also be reduced to half. Then both the citizens and I could take what the ministers here explain to us and the defenses more seriously. It is an honor to Mr Ljajic, he has repeated today, and I have listened to and read some of his earlier statements, to advocate that the number of state secretaries is reduced in his own portfolio, but let us not put our heads in the sand and ignore the fact that there are extra and state secretaries and assistants in each ministry simply because of the need to maintain cohesion of the coalition government. Simply, party demands are that each party has its own secretary of state and assistant, but they are not only those people, but also the service of the people who serve these people, from the driver to the secretary, etc. We were presented here that first of the government would start this rationalization. Then, for agencies established in these past years, which are over 100, the proposal declares that the number of executives in the agencies will be reduced and that some will even be shut down, those whose responsibilities overlap with the ministries. But it's just a declarative statement, without concreteisation; those who explain these laws didn't say -- we've seen, these agencies are unnecessary, we're going to shut them down, it's so many perpetrators, and that's going to mean that and that. We don't have that. Furthermore, public enterprises remain as large agglomerations of public sector employees, they are not touched and there are no announcements when they will enter into rationalisation, as well as other institutions financed from the budget. It is only mentioned that this is delayed for some later time, and it is known that foreign factors point to us, and our public knows that we have surplus employees in health care and in education, and in the judiciary, and in the MUP, etc. More concrete should be said when rationalisation would be approached in these public sectors as well. When it comes to the criteria for dismissal in local self-government, some colleagues here say that they are not correct, that there can be no number of inhabitants of the basic criterion, that the size of the territory in which the municipality, economic activity in the municipality or local self-government should also be taken into account, the size of the work in local self-government. Based on what Mr Dinkic said yesterday, for example, the Municipality of Sjenica is one of the municipalities where there are extra employees in the state administration. A few days ago, I mentioned that the Agriculture Committee held a meeting there two or three weeks ago. We were all baffled and humiliated and came from Belgrade to hear that at the beginning of the season in 50% of schools, preschools and health institutions there are no heating energys, that students bring wood to the edge, that 14 villages or settlements in the cave highland have no electricity yet. Now in that community some people who have a job like that will have to lose their jobs. I don't think this government should allow itself, that some fairer criteria should be taken into account, in terms of rationalization. I just brought up this community, which we've heard about the state of it. Finally, economic and financial effects are also suspicious. There is no telling how much budget cuts will be in 2010, if 3,400 people are fired in the state administration and about 5,648 in local self-government, which is a financial effect already in this year, 2010 and in the coming years. In April of this year, Minister Markovic said that due to budget cuts in the position of the local self-government ministry of 1.1 billion dinars could not then become rationalised. So, according to what is said, it is considered to be some minimum amount that should be spent to pay off severance fees to workers who will be jobless. Maybe that's a bigger amount, but no minister has mentioned here what is the number that will be allocated from the severance payment budget and what will be the savings on the earnings. Finally, economists who support the ruling coalition or belong to it, some of our leading economists, are also skeptical that the effect these laws seek to achieve will be achieved. Even one of them said that if all 30,000 people working in the state administration were fired, it wouldn't be a significant and respectable savings. Therefore, we must have a fairer relationship with our citizens and the laws that we propose more clearly, because I think that if anything else, it will be clear to the people what we must do and under the coercion of others and, on the other hand, what this government has promised and how it exercises its power. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-03-0.u29423	The word is issued by MP Vladan Batic, based on Article 93. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-03-0.u29424	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, when we talk about the rationalization of state administration and local self-government, it seems to me that the government should have left first, because this is a good example, a good message to the citizens that they really want rationalization. On behalf of the DHS, more than four months ago, I proposed amendments and additions to the Ministry Act, which would have reduced the number of ministries to 15, which is approximately at the level of the most massive governments in Europe, which is rarely the government has more than 15 resolutions. This one is the most numerous, the most massive, the most expensive. Automaticly, there's the biggest spending, because it's not just the government, there's deputies, there's advisors, there's cabinet chiefs, there's cars and everything else that carries a huge cost. There's nothing wrong with a personal example. Let's say that Mladjan Dinkic does, at least once, show a high degree of responsibility, since the effects of his work are disastrous, as his promises are unfulfilled – from those made in November 2000 exactly nine years ago, that he will return the Cypriot money, to those most recent from just over a year ago, that citizens will receive 1,000 euros on behalf of free shares. The man here is giving us lectures on rationalization, so it wouldn't be bad to explain that according to his ministry's rules, the bankruptcy manager of Agroziva, Stevan Moldovan, has charged 250,000 euros. So, under the economics ministry rule, headed by Mladjan Dinkic, the bankruptcy manager of Agroziva, Stevan Moldovan, charged 250,000 euros in a few months of work, and after the restructuring is completed, another 500,000 euros should be charged. Let's not talk about what needs to be charged, let's talk about what he's charged for. I am speaking to the present minister and the entire public of Serbia. So many two officers in the municipal administration earning a lifetime. Within a few months of the work of the bankruptcy manager – it is the life of two employees in the local administration. How? People have, say, 250 euros in salary, that's 3,000 euros per year, for 40 years of work that's 120,000 euros, and the man has charged 250,000 euros. Then why all these ridiculous stories of rationalization? One more question. Why aren't local public enterprises covered by rationalization? I keep mentioning the Obrenovac, because that's where I live, and I'm not ashamed of it, so I'm proud of it. When DOS took power in 2001 and DHHS was in power in Obrenovac, there were three public enterprises. There are nine public companies today. These public enterprises have, in addition to the directors, deputy directors, assistants, boards of directors, boards of directors, committees. It is several hundred people on the budget, not to mention how many employees have increased in various public enterprises during the duration of the two previous governments – practically double. An example is, for example, in the Department of Justice. During the government of Vojislav Kostunica, the number of employees under that part of the ministry's budget increased by 2,400 people. Therefore, various party appetites, various coalition commitments should be met, and we are having funny discussions here on rationalization. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-03-0.u29425	The People's Messenger Djordje Milicevic has the word, followed by the People's Messenger Milos Aligrudic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-03-0.u29426	I would like to say, firstly, that the rationalisation of the state administration, i.e. the reduction of costs, expenditure at this time, in our opinion, is a more realistic and acceptable option than the increase in the burden, taxes, contributions, or the rationalisation of the state administration at this point is a better way to replace the budget deficits than to do so through an increase in VAT or a reduction in pensions, i.e. wages. Thus, it is certainly a more realistic option to reduce costs, i.e. expenditure. Of course, this should not be seen as a goal, but as an emergency in order to reach the goal. We support the proposed laws, as we see clearly that Serbia must come out with a reduction in public spending. The rationalisation of the state administration actually needs to bring, in a realistic way, a reduction in the pre-greeting bureaucracy, a halting of employment in the administration. That would actually be the first step towards something that could be defined as an efficient state apparatus. It is very important for rationalisation to be carried out with a minimum degree of negative effects, if possible of course. Of course, we are aware of how difficult it is to leave someone without a job today, but, on the other hand, if this contribution saves at the state level, which at this point is a priority priority, and if some of the savings are invested, say, in infrastructure projects, which again means opening new jobs, then these proposals are acceptable to us. Of course, it must be kept in mind that both ministries and local self-government must function. We have repeatedly pointed out and insisted on the government and union agreement. Once again, I would like to say that any agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Union on the rationalisation of the state administration is acceptable to us. When it comes, in particular, to the proposal for a law establishing the maximum number of employees in the Republic administration, some positive solutions are to perfect the existing system in the state administration and address the relevant shortcomings. The main effect is certainly to reduce budget expenditure. In addition, this proposal also makes better solutions than the existing ones, stimulates the training of employees and brings about the possibility of progress. That's why I characterize him as stimulating. In addition to the internal competition, there is an obligation to go to public competitions for certain places; in the future, not only the human resource management service, but also the competent authorities in the administration to discuss the competition. Article 35 sets out the provisions of the applicable law for civil servants when it comes to further education, i.e. there is a possibility of moving to a better workplace. Article 37 introduces a contract for the professional training of unemployed persons, which again allows for the acquisition of work experience and the submission of a state exam. When it comes to the second legislative proposal, it is essential to determine the maximum number of employees in local self-government. The whole legislative regulation has established a clear criterion – four employees per 1,000 inhabitants. Legal reasoning shows that it can be estimated that this legislative proposal will also give effect in terms of reducing budget expenditure. However, it seems to us that a mathematical-financial approach has been applied, which will reduce the number of employees, but will not essentially solve the problems of the administration. We understand this move, but we need an essential solution to this issue. It's not very good to start from the employees, but at this point it's something that is necessary; rationalisation needs to be continued and institutions continued. The fact is that Serbia has changed its state status several times. Because of the change in status, there has been a multiplication of institutions – existing ones have been detained, some new institutions have been formed. If we want a serious reform of the public sector, based on two criteria, our constitutional definition and the definition of what kind of state we want, we need to make, among other things, a clear critical assessment, following the adoption of these proposed legislative solutions, which are needed by the institutions, whether there are institutions that can be abolished or merged by function, because institutions have functions, and to perform functions, employees are needed. The practice of some countries that implemented the reform of the state administration and the public sector clearly tells what is needed – a single programme is needed, the consent of all relevant political entities on the political scene and, fundamentally, the reform cannot be implemented immediately, because it is a long-term process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-03-0.u29427	The word has a folk MP Milos Aligrudic, followed by a folk MP, Gorica Mojovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-03-0.u29428	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, you are neither guilty nor debtor today, and there are no people I would like to address. But it is much better to address the citizens of Serbia. I'm going to try to be as simple as I can in this speech as any of my predecessors in what I have to say to make the citizens understand what's ahead of us, what might be, and it's not. So we have two laws ahead: one aims to help the government fire one number of officials in the state-run republican administration; another law aims to force local self-government units to fire one number of their employees. The third law under discussion today is the law on amendments and additions to the Law on civil servants, which aims to improve certain things, in which he has partially succeeded. In the second part of the law, there is a provision that tries to say that the government is powerless to address the issue of competition and the positioning of people, so the entire competition procedure is delayed for some time, which will be the subject of a special review by our colleague, Mr. Jovan Palalic. The first two laws I mentioned were the government's wishes to do in some way a marketing trick, directed primarily to the IMF and the part of the domestic public that they obviously rely on, because they think that citizens are bloodthirsty to employees in the republican administration, so they can't wait for someone to massacre them. Believe me, ladies and gentlemen, you have made a terrible mistake here. People identify themselves with other people's problems. We will prove very quickly here that there are no villains involved, people who peer bureaucratically from some offices, palace with double tongues and harass the citizens, but in fact the unfortunate people whose average income does not exceed 30,000 dinars, who thus support their families and who are not guilty because you have come up with the law that you have proposed, which is otherwise Lex specialises in relation to this unfortunate Law on civil servants, you write that this discharge will come up with such a mechanism. I'll explain it now. So, when the head of a service or an authority of a state administration doesn't like one of the officials, either personally, or because he thinks he's brought by some party of his own in time, which he doesn't like, or the man honestly does his job for small money, and he's not ready to listen to any stupid political instructions and orders, so he resents you, then you will evaluate that man or the woman who works in the Republic administration with an assessment "not satisfactory". Because, according to some law, this state officials system exists in the state administration, and this system can be evaluated as follows: "not satisfying", "satisfactory", "expression" and "species". This evaluation, first of all, was designed to filter people who could progress in the ministry in this way. Of course, as in the mirror, the result of the inability to advance through poor grades assumes a certain setback in the ministry. It was an idea. You remembered how to operate in order to fire people – by making Lex specialis. These two laws, primarily the law on firing people from the Republic administration, because that's what you should call it, has the next mechanism. Why is he a Lex specialist, and what does Lex specialise mean, because of the citizens? It's a law that regulates some matter in a different way, some social relationship, than the roof law does. This roof law says: when you are, as an employee, subject to an assessment of the suspect, then you can complain about it, and then whoever decides about your complaint is considering, in addition to whether a legal decision has been made, and whether a decision has been made in full and whether someone who evaluated you was right to judge you badly. You've come up with a "remarkable" thing - in an emergency evaluation, and in terms of firing workers, this employee in the state administration has no right to complain, but the decision is final. That someone will only be able to file a lawsuit in the administrative dispute. In order not to lie, the court's appeal in the administrative dispute is not concerned, nor does the administrative dispute deal with the integrity of the decision. At no time will the court question whether the alleged unwarrantedly assessed someone by an assessment "not satisfactory", as this is not the subject of the dispute. The subject of the dispute is only a legal solution, first of all from the aspect of the procedure – whether it has been brought by the authorised person, whether the procedure is respected in accordance with the law, and that is the end. In other words, what you wrote in the law is that an alternative view of how the number of employees is reduced, which is a change in systematization, a situation in which people will be unallocated because of the change in systematization, and thus deserve the right to pay, not that it is secondary, but only the jokes are written in this law. It'll never come to that. It's cheating people. It's the deception of people who belong to unions and defend their own interests. We took these people in and talked to them. Of course, we've been distracted, and now we're turning our attention to the public. So, what you wrote about changing the systematization and people getting severances, as was said here yesterday by Mladjan Dinkic, that's a lie. You're not gonna do that. You will release people in a senseless manner by grading “not satisfying, ” where a man gets a kick card and a book in his hand and can complain to God’s father, he can appeal to the court in Strasbourg, because all means of appeal or legal remedies for what happened to him here will be exhausted at the same time. The way you deal with them reminds me of what Senkievich wrote in the “Qu vadis” section when he described Nero as burning Rome. You set the country on fire, ladies and gentlemen of the government. You have destroyed and destroyed this country and you continue to do so. Then for every trouble you cause yourself, you need an on-call culprit. Now you've found the culprit in 3,000 civil servants and I don't know how many employees of the local administration. Well, throw them to the lions, burn them at the stake, kill them. Why are you scolding them like this? I'm not telling you here what the state administration should look like, and what number of employees should have, that's a different story, but it's being solved in another way. Since you haven't proved to the National Assembly and to the citizens at any point that you've rationally reached the number 28,400 of those who need to stay, there's no evidence of that, not one single one, except that it just occurred to us, then that's what it says for everyone. That fact speaks of everything. That fact suggests that you have decided to cut a number of digits in an ostensibly to reach out to someone, to make a dirty marketing trick of your government at a given time, and that effect will be suffered by innocent people on your back. Not only did Professor Zoran Shami initially point out that it did not gain anything mathematically, in terms of protecting the budget and the black hole you have been making for months, but Mladjan Dinkic also said in his address on the first day that savings are insignificant compared to other effects. If you don't believe it, here, take a stenogram. And those who are here, insignificant, and not ministers, turn their eyes, and I don't know why they came, they should know that. Take a stenogram and see what your minister said – that insignificant savings are relative to other effects that these laws have. These effects were spoken of in the following way, extremely banally: we have three tents, someone is now going to spend four hours going around three counters, and we're going to make it all end up on one counter, dunques - fire the workers with the first two. The fact that you have not passed a single regulation, or proposed to this congregation, in order to create opportunities under the laws of different areas not to go around three counters, it does nothing to anyone. How is that possible? How can you do that? We've suggested something else to you that you won't accept because you've taken a ride, because you've decided to do one thing the wrong way, because you've come to prove your rightness by liquidating people. That's what you're gonna do. We have proposed something else to you – come to the rational number needed by the state administration in such a way that the ministries as state authorities, agencies and other services and organisations that have been given to state bodies, by law, will deliver their needs, the way they work; by delivering proposals of system laws that would otherwise resolve this matter; by presenting a strategy; by forming a commission that would establish it in agreement with the trade unions; you do not have to obey the unions in everything, but it is unfair to consult them. So there would be a rational number, which we don't know about now, and neither do you, that you're still that big, that it's smaller than this number that you mentioned or that it's larger. It is only on this basis that you can go into a certain procedure, which cannot liquidate certain constitutional rights. You cannot liquidate Article 12. The constitution of the law on the number of officials in the local administration by threatening local administrations what they will get and what they won't if they don't listen. That's impossible under the Constitution, ladies and gentlemen. Are you aware of that? It is impossible for you to liquidate, too, under the same constitution and by the principles that this Constitution represents, the right to appeal, in this particular case by giving lex specialis. Are you out of your mind? You can't do that. You decided to do a cheap marketing trick on the outside and on the inside and you don't care if it hits anyone. Those 3,000 people have their families, they have their friends. They're a release note in other activities. Let the people who work in health care not laugh at this, because the next day they'll be welcomed by the people who work in school. Why? Because you don't have any concept, you have no idea. You have only a daily policy idea of how you will simply liquidate your immediate political interests and the pressures that come from certain international organisations, which will allegedly give you money, which you will use not for investment and production, but for filling black budget gaps. It is not true that this reduction of employees will in any way mitigate the state deficit, the budget deficit. That's not true, it's mathematically not true and it's proven to you today in the debate. The only question is, what are you doing? If you accept our amendments and turn these two laws into a procedure for determining the number of employees, that is something that we would be pleased with, because we are aware, as well as all citizens are aware that the state administration, and even the local administration, must be in order. It has to be done in a rational way, and that's what you ladies and gentlemen are not doing. What you've suggested here is against the law in a formal sense, and basically, in a material sense, it's a disaster, it's miserable. That's all we can say about these bill proposals of yours. No wonder these other ministers aren't here, because, Mr. Ljajic, they brought you in today, because people can't stand it. Who would stand for something like that? I read, from Tranquil, from Svetoni and the others, that Nero, too, burning Christians, once turned his head because he couldn't watch those torments that were happening in the arena.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-03-0.u29429	The word has a folk letter from Gorica Mojovic, followed by MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-03-0.u29430	Dear Madam Chairman, Mr Minister, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will talk about these two laws relating to the determination of the maximum number of employees in the state administration and local self-government and how they reflect on the field of culture. With that in mind, I have one question and one commendation. The issue concerns the following environment – the law on limiting and determining the maximum number of employees in the state administration does not apply to cultural institutions, and in the case of local administration, cultural institutions are also covered. I think making the difference between a culture institution whose founder is the Republic and those whose founder is a local self-government is not good for any more reason. First, in culture institutions whose founder is the Republic has about 2,400 employees; in culture institutions whose founders are local self-government there are about so many. Otherwise, it is well - known that in many cultural institutions the founder of the Republic has really extra employees. To illustrate only the example of the famous National Theatre, which has more employees than ten theatres whose founder is the city of Belgrade. That's not good for that reason. It's not good either, because the largest number of republican cultural institutions are located in Belgrade, so now we have a situation to do, for example. In the National Theatre, one rule and regulations apply, and a hundred meters further, at the Theatre Theatre or at Atelé 212, the other rules and regulations apply. This is not the only law that distinguishes the ways in which cultural institutions are established by local self-government or the Republic of Serbia. It's a question of why such differences are being established. The commendation refers to Article 3 of the Law on the determination of the maximum number of employees in local self-government, because this Article 3 provides that the area of culture is to be excluded from the obligation to employ more than 10% of permanent employees by contracts and on different grounds for a certain period of time. It's not just because of the nature of the culture's work, it's because of other reasons. We recently passed the Culture Act, which predicts that the largest number of cultural employees is just being employed by contracts. That's an important reason. Another important reason is that, if there were no exception, after the adoption of this law, many cultural institutions would cease to work. I'll give you some examples. Serbia's only music agency, Jugoconcert, has 15 permanent employees, employed indefinitely. He organizes over two hundred concerts a year. Of course, with all the participants of these concerts, he's signing contracts. Not to mention "Bemus", which includes hundreds and two hundred artists with whom contracts are also signed. If it was not excluded, it would definitely have to stop the Jugoconcert activity. Let me mention, for example, the Stargazer Theatre, the Puž Theatre, which has fifteen or twenty employees, and their entire repertoire is based precisely on the involvement of artists and people by contract. All in all, I believe that this provision exempting culture, that is, this indent to which culture is exempt from this 10% obligation, is not a privilege, but a support of an important intensity, a new model of organisation in the field of culture, where in fact the number of employees is constantly reduced to a minimum, and where everyone else, precisely because of the nature of this activity, is engaged in contracts. To conclude, I believe that the application of these laws will depend greatly, many have spoken of it, out of honesty and responsibility, we could say conditionally, employers, i.e. The responsible people in the state administration and local self-government, but, of course, it's time for the management staff to realize that the chairs of the government's staff are not quite as stable and comfortable as they are, but that they can be both flimsy and wheezy. Therefore, for all these reasons, the MEP group I belong to will vote in favour of these laws, hoping that one number of amendments submitted by the MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-03-0.u29431	The word is from MP Zoran Krasic, followed by MP Zoran Kasalovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-03-0.u29432	Today we really don't have a talker, because Rasim Ljajic has a role to play today to acknowledge everything, he shares his opinion with all the MPs, there is no criticism he will deny. Mr. Ljajic, you've saved yourself from what's next. Let's get in line. If the rule of law has been promoted since 2000, then all branches of government should do their job as prescribed by the Constitution, within the framework of rights and duties. This means that the executive authority should do executive work, which belongs to the executive authority. Unfortunately, we have it all upside down. You MEPs, you know, the Assembly didn't decide how many judges there would be, how many prosecutors they would be, and you accepted the role of discussing how many civil servants they would be. Doesn't that seem a little disturbed to you? The number of civil servants, the organisation of government work, the number of employees in local self-government and the organisation of local self-government are executive transactions in the sole jurisdiction of the government and local self-government. It is not a subject, it does not fall under legislative jurisdiction. No law has ever been passed in history that begins with words – a law on minimum, a law on maximum number of employees or anything. Someone by reading the title of this law might think that we're getting involved in something called mathematics or physics. Well, theorems don't put into regulations. But the concept would be wrong if the law were to be rewritten to be the law on the procedure of determination. It is in the sole jurisdiction of the Government of the Republic of Serbia; and according to that Constitution and under this Constitution of three years ago, only the Government is responsible for this job. If not, there would be no answer to the question why you didn't propose this law three years ago, six, nine or 20 years ago, if anyone suggested it. We used to have a regulation under which the company was obliged to hire an intern on every hundred employees. This was imposed in order to increase the number of employees, to move social policy from state to economy. Of course, that time has passed. We've brought in all the regulations that regulate the state's service, absolutely everything. The number of employees is in the government's exclusive jurisdiction. But she wants this hot potato transferred to the republican parliament. If this were to pass, it would mean that every future government when it wants to change something has to change this law, regardless of what they've changed and that absolute number in those regulations has the proper reserves, some corrective factors, and so on, and so on. This is not done for either the International Monetary Fund or some of the parties' interests, it's done for other matters entirely. You know, in life there's black and white, there's a letter and a head, there's a plus and a minus, but there's something called a positive zero. This is a positive zero. The mountain was shaking, the mouse was born, literally speaking. You from the Democratic Party have never knocked about the dismissal of workers from privatised companies. Some of them cut their fingers. However, they did not break up with any strikes, but there was no solidarity. You've all been held accountable for these nine years. Ljajic is making something now, and he says, "What I do needs to hire people." Well, you've fired them so far. And you were complicit in firing. You with four MPs can't change the wheel of history. They always vote for what the government proposes. The only one in this building that has warned you since 2000 for all those agencies, for all those employments, those inventions, were Serbian radicals. You smiled and said you had EU support for the project. Now you say - we must reduce the number of employees by law, because the EU is asking us to. What kind of partner is that? Why don't you admit that since 2000 you've missed azimuth, you're going in the opposite direction, and now no mathematical argument helps. Here is the promotional principle 126. At the same time, while running a media campaign to reduce the number of employees, you are hiring. I'll give you an example of how it was a few weeks ago in the Vrbas municipality: Bajatovic came, hired in a village of 16 people in NIS, the whole village voted for him, finished the job. How many people lost their jobs to get those 16 jobs? You share those blue and yellow bags before the election, there's probably some virus in there. I recommend no one takes those bags. Don't take those bags, it's some kind of scam. All that's in the bag is eaten in two days, they take votes and then they go for four years. Take care, people. You who vote, vote on your destiny, and those who get their hands on coalition 126 think they have an absolute right to everything. That's the problem. Mladjan Dinkic must cut costs and anything that costs must be reduced. They're workers today, they're employees today. Do you remember introducing an imbalance in respect of the tenant? You don't talk about them. The biggest form of discrimination that was made a few years ago when the law was passed. You don't mention the tenants. Do you remember in 2000 there were 70 employees in the National Assembly? There's over 340 of them now. How many agencies have you made? It's out of control. Who hires in public enterprises? Of course, by party membership. Yesterday, Todorovic read to you the data from "Blica", which was, as it was now, as it came to that number of 28,400, and was suddenly ill with Mladjan Dinkic, some stomach problems he had, he had to leave the hall. Why? When you come to the field fact, your policy falls, it doesn't exist, it's in the wrong direction. Serbia has been down since you came to power. You laughed a few days ago when I told you it was going to be late budget, rebalancing, etc. Now you're all talking about how late it is. You're amazed the material didn't come. Those who keep the media in Serbia consciously and deliberately inserted this topic, in which everyone will be right. And there is right Rasim Ljajic, he accepted the maximum of Nikola Pasic – everyone is right, just don't touch him. Everyone's right, just don't touch Rasim. Besides Rasim and Tomica, I don't know who was more in power in this country. There's got to be a little bit of responsibility. There's got to be some kind of liability that exists. We're the only country on the globe where the opposition is guilty of the state of the country. Can you imagine that? The only country where the opposition is guilty of snowing today. Do you realize, people, how far you have managed to twist it through the media, through "The Big Brother", via your Dragan Gilas. Otherwise, we are today all the media victims of a conflict within the Democratic Party and a conflict of factions, since in February you must have some convention, so now, which group will sooner come up with something. But it's your insides, I'm not getting involved in it. Is there a legal path? There is, Mr. Ljajic, you know, there is also a law on civil servants, there is also in government regulations, organization. You give consent to the systemization. Let me just remind you, a few months ago, when Todorovic also asked the question of Belgrade Airport, etc., you took, as a government, the sharp measures that there is no employment, there is no job, there is no one, that everything will be under control, and daily - competitions. You have transferred very important jobs, so it is no longer the affairs of the state administration within the ministries, but of independent or regulatory or some other management organisations and agencies. Only one ministry has strengthened its powers, you know, the Ministry of Health. Almost everything that was in those two institutions, health care and health insurance, Tomica slowly drew to him, because of that money-related pathology, and all the other ministries were dissipated, lost some of those superior powers of the state administration. You're taking the country in the wrong direction. You don't do it because you don't know, you do it on purpose and by order from abroad, because the dirty work with Serbia and the Serbian people and all the peoples in the territory of the Balkans and the former SFRY, directed by the great powers, is not finished. You're just applying for a position to give some of your, less or more modest, contribution to the disseminating of a once very serious state. That's the whole story. Of course, then the representatives of the ZES are right when they say – how do you criticise this law, and you have told us for years that the number of employees should be reduced? You're right, too, but we'd be much more right if you and we had listened right away, not now. When did you hook up with some machine, electronic, "The First Five-year-olds", "Lole Ribara", I don't know all of which companies? Batic now remembered to be clever, to mention Stevan Moldovan, and our Petar Jojic has been talking for two years about this Stevan Moldovan and that 40 bankruptcys lead. Why didn't you listen to Peter Jojic two years ago when he mentioned it? No, now you've remembered, and the state is slipping into debt, slipping into something called general chaos, where there's no authority, there's no integrity, just a call-in capacity, based on a simple scam, how successful someone can be to trick voters to finish the job. Now you're going to go to Vozdovec with blue packages, with yellow packages, maybe in ten days you'll declare an epidemic, but it's because of those packages. Because of those packets. One of the pieces there were some stains, some spices for free; found a settlement there, shared spices, found a sponsor for spices. This is the main factor for policy definition – what who gave it. Who's as much as he's given to who. Well, you see, if they can give out packages, they're successful, etc. Yes, he's been able to trick you. And they've been cheating on you for nine years. Let me remind you, that Djelic - he had no dog to bite him for when he came. And now, here goes the man. It's on. There's talk of some savings. There's no savings. All that goes in redistribution to similar and suitable, and 95%, if they're losers in transition, and they should be losers in transition. It's this government's policy -- the worse, the better. That's better for them, better for the media tycoons who fight the people. But we'll talk about it when it's time for the amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-03-0.u29433	National MP Vlajko Senic has been reported. You want a replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-03-0.u29434	Dear Minister, honourable Members of the People, I just wanted to answer a few questions that have been raised here and to deny one of the information that is being implemented, that this law has been brought under the pressure of the IMF. That is not true, because the savings effects achieved at this time by this law are not enough to impress IMF experts to pressure the Serbian government to pass the law. He, of course, means a rather unpopular first step in public sector reform. Yesterday I said, we did not transfer responsibility to the opposition that we passed this law, nor did we feel that those who ruled until 2000 today are responsible for having so many employees in the state administration, which is not effective and productive. The way she was then, she was, and it's important that we start these things off from a dead end now. We are in favour of this being the first step in establishing a public administration as a new public management, as an area to be a partner to the private sector, which will be a partner to society and that will enable Serbia to progress, instead of constantly treating the public administration as an administrative accounting cost, of which citizens absolutely have no use. I think it's important that we say we're behind this law, and it seems to me that yesterday is the clearest thing we've said is that we're behind this law. Is the minister sick or not... It's not a question of whether the minister is behind this law. So, we only gave clear support to all of this, because we think that the state administration in Serbia is not good, that it is bureaucratic and that there are people who do their job well and quality, and they can't come to terms, that there is no principle of positive selection from those who do their job in a good way and in the right way. Whether some of them have been brought in and through political parties that are in power today is not a priority at the moment. For us, it is a priority to move towards change and reform of this sector, not to look back at what happened, but to look forward, to see if we can change these things. I am sure that in this process, again without hiding behind the IMF, public enterprises will come in line, and the pension system and all the other irrationalities of Serbia's public finances that have led us to fight the battle today and to try to have as little budget deficit as possible. We're facing the future, we're looking to fix this situation that's not good today, and we have no intention of hiding behind anyone, especially behind the IMF. This is the law that we have adopted on our proposal, and we are confident that it will deliver the results very quickly – not as much financial savings in the short term, but certainly in the medium term a serious one and hopefully a responsible administration, which will not work slowly and unproductively as it has been so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-03-0.u29435	The word is by MP Zoran Kasalovic. After that, the People's MP is Free Maras.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-03-0.u29436	The Honorable Presidency, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as a man who has ruled local self-government for some time, I would like to say first of all that I would like to say that I would be much happier and happier if today we were able to discuss a comprehensive process of reforming local self-government, with clear and planned time frames. First of all, the optimum and optimisation of the number of employees is not, by definition, more effective local administration. In that sense, I want to believe that time will show that criteria (primarily four per thousand inhabitants as a criterion) are established and I would not comment too much. I want to say that a field on which the possibility of achieving the objective of an optimal number of employees in local self-government will be in the fact that local self-governments decide on their own. I would call on all local self-governments to, in that sense, affirm the criteria of competence, to preserve the expertise and competence of local authorities and professional services in local self-government. Otherwise, unprofessional and incompetent local authorities, even when they want to do something good, can't do it, waste money, don't provide good enough services; simply, they don't have one such potential. Of course, in addition to this criterion, there are others that the government has predicted. The SPS-JS MPs want to affirm other criteria. We believe that they are very important, that in this process it is necessary to protect single parents, disabled people, families with three or more children, of course, according to the provisions of a special collective contract. What I would point out and commend is the intention achieved by this law on the maximum number of employees in local self-government, the affirmation of the principles of applying uniform criteria in all units of local self-government. That means that the rules of the game are clearly known, which so far, I can say, was not a principle. Of course, this allows many local self - administrations that have so far not had the inner potential and courage to carry out such a process. That's gonna be very important to them. Secondly, it is really important to affirm the public principle through the fact that, above all, there will be known data, that there will be a register on the number of employees in local self-governments. I appreciate that's very good. Finally, given the limitations of my parliamentary club's time, I would like to call on our government and all resolute ministries to understand and accept the appeal of local self-government leaders, in terms of creating preconditions for the return of property to local self-government and for the necessary financial autonomy, in terms of income and expenditure, because this will be the only time and the next step in achieving more efficient local self-government, and of course the possibility that all municipalities have development budgets, for the benefit of all citizens in these municipalities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-03-0.u29437	The word has been made by the People's MP, Free Maras. After that, the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-03-0.u29438	I must first point out that the Liberal Democratic Party at the beginning of this global economic crisis, among other things, has proposed to the government a reduction in the number of ministries. You touched earlier, but the essence of our proposal was not to reduce the number of ministers, to reduce the number of cars, but to have the government withdraw from all those areas where it does not belong, or to not play the employer, but to be a service. I want to say that it's a fact, and it's probably clear to all citizens that for a large number of economic problems in this country, the government is a generator. That's a big problem. This law that you have brought to us in the congregation seems to be very thoughtless to us. It deals only with numbers, there is no essence whatsoever, as with all the measures you have taken when it comes to the economic crisis that has affected Serbia. I repeat, the great generator of this crisis is the government itself. You're those measures you've been bringing in late and at the heart of the middle class. This is a middle class strike again. What we want to ask you is what my predecessor, Mr Ostojić, and also the president of the parliamentary group – why do public enterprises not come in line? They're big losers, they hire a tremendous number of people, and they're making losses; they don't come on the agenda, and no one can touch them. But that's why some local self-government, based on the mathematics that you've calculated, means, without any substance, we're going to deprive a certain number of employees. Of course we're for saving, but I repeat, go first. For you, Mr. Ljajic, I have one question and one request. A moment ago, Mr. Vlajko Senic said that the minister who comes from his party, as well as the president of his party, had decidedly stepped behind this law and supported it, so I would like to hear from you whether you decidently support this law? Without those extra arguments, how many MPs do you have, yes or no? I hope that in the next period, in a month, two, three, when this law comes to life, you will not visit the families of those who are fired by sharing packages and playing someone who cares about them. You should have been worried a lot earlier, you've been in many governments for nine years, and it would have been much more correct if you'd done other jobs by now, so I'm asking you to really do it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-03-0.u29439	The word has been given by MP Srdjan Milivojevic, followed by MP Jorgovanka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-03-0.u29440	Dear Madam Chairman, Mr. Ljajic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the respected citizens of Serbia, today we are attending a debate that we can observe in several ways and with several aspects: we had one sociological analysis, we had one mathematical analysis, we had one analysis that was historical and, indeed, that the time for political experiments, the Serbian citizens could learn a lot from this debate. Unfortunately, this debate I just heard, and several times during the day, I will declare as a demagogue. Demagoggy is indeed a wonderful political skill that serves the opposition when it is to court the people. I don't mean Mr. Ostojic, it didn't apply to him. Demagogy is wonderful when it comes to raising the people, to inspire certain feelings among citizens. What did we just hear here? Again, I am saying, I am not referring to my predecessor, Mr. Ostojić, but to some previous discussions. We've just heard of a show of concern for employees of the state administration, in local self-government. Not bad, when we hear discussions like this, we wonder if there really are political parties that have two morals. The theme is exactly what I'm talking about. One is the morale of those who preach, but do not observe it; the other, the morals they hold back, and the same parties do not preach. I'll just remind you of Serbia's history. This is not the first case in Serbia's history that we have this debate. When we had these discussions Nikola Pasic was Prime Minister and the same Serbian state at the time... And Nikola Pasic has many times been Prime Minister since 1904, and has been minor until the death of 1926. We had a situation that the state of Serbia faced a problem in the budget and that there was a need to reduce the state administration and the number of officials. It was just that at that session, Nikola Pasic was sick. A telegram arrived while he was sick: “Mr. Pasic, a quick healing is required for you by the National Assembly, with 82 for and 68 against you. “ I think we are all here for a quick recovery, but above all we want to cure the Republic of Serbia. Serbia can only recover if we all put our finger on the head and say that the state of Serbia spends 1.3 billion euros a year more than it produces and must be saved. Whoever says we didn't start saving ourselves... Don't let us degrade parliament. If someone started saving themselves, parliament began. Parliament elects the government and controls the government, not the Government of Parliament, Mr Markovic. So we in parliament have abolished the diaries, we have reduced the salary in parliament and started on our own. Now we have to wonder where else we can save. If someone thinks that we've been dreaming about the number of workers we need to fire, that we've looked at the beans as long as we have to fire the worker, that it came to us during the night, we've come to that number by establishing the exact number of people we should have in the administration and it's 28,400. If we say, on the other hand, that this is a worldwide conspiracy designed in Brussels, Paris, Washington, or perhaps in Moscow, that some of our people are out of work, we are aware that there are people like us sitting in a local administration who have problems too. No one satanicizes these people in this debate and no one points a finger at these people, that they're excess citizens. I see certain political parties intend to burn them at the stake, throw them to the lions, and I don't know what else they're doing, referring to the experiences of ancient Rome. Old Rome had problems with bureaucracy too, but old Rome was not a bureaucratic society, at the time there was no European Union. So don't call on the experiences of ancient Rome, call on the experiences of the countries in the environment, the states that are ahead of us. You can't look past the eyes, ladies and gentlemen, into the future. But if you look into the past, at a time when you were in power, if you look at the present, what does the theory say, and what does practice say? Here, for you, Mr. Ljajic, one interesting piece of information: up until a few months ago in Leskovac, there was another coalition in power, where neither your party nor DS participated, nor the ZES coalition, but they hired drivers, and drivers were employed even though they had no driving exam. It's a unique case in Serbia. We had a situation where the Youth Department at So Leskovac runs a man who's older than me and you together, Mr. Ljajic, and we have a solid year. On the other hand, in some other local self-governments, such as the town of Kruševac, we have a situation that in the town of Kruševec, where the radical party was in power, at the Management Board of the Apothecary Institute... (Verica Radeta: If you think of us, we are the Serbian Radical Party. The way you're acting, I don't believe it, but it doesn't matter. On the other hand, there was another party in power and the Management Board of the Apothecary Institute... They hired people who were graduate farm engineers. I don't want to pull the parallel here that we're all the same, that we're all doing the same thing and that we're all trying the same way to affirm party employment. I still think it's more important in Serbia what the job candidate knows than who he knows and what party book he has. I'm going back to the demagogue phrases we heard here. A few days ago, one of the leaders of the opposition here told us publicly that he, Malten, knows the names of all drug dealers, but that we will never show willingness to deal with drug dealers, so we're drug dealers, and God damn it, we showed him where Morava was deepest the other day. Now we think we're gonna show that the Danube is deep enough. As we dealt with drug dealers on the street, so we'll deal with those other abuses of public functions at the bar. (Lowers from the O.R.: Theme. That's the theme, sir. If someone commits such abuses in the employment of people in the state administration, of course it must be cut down. He has to draw a line where he can, where he can't. If you look at municipalities where the number of employees is reduced and how many municipalities have municipal administrations per population, you'll see that there are really no rules there. And in Stari Pazova, in Arile, in Luciani, in Topoli, but also in Chačka, in Šapac, sitting different local self-governments, differently composed of different political parties... And in Zrenjanin. And in Ariel, in Arangelovac. In Arangelovac, the president of the municipality that ended up in prison was from the SRS, Mr. Krstin.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-03-0.u29441	People's MPs, please stop throwing. I'm trying to establish order by warning the bell, but it obviously doesn't help, so I'm warning MP Milorad Krstin and MP Momir Markovic that any next throw will mean my obligation to apply Article 100. People's MP, go on.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-03-0.u29442	So, we just heard a strange sentence -- since the Democratic Party is in power, Serbia is at a disadvantage. I don't know how this minus is determined, is that minus is determined by buying, as today's Curr says, an apartment of 134,000 marks for eight thousand marks, or is the minus determined by looking at how much unintended money is spent? I think taxpayers' money must be spent on purpose and all citizens of this country will agree. This isn't an attack on the municipal administration, I'm undermining. This is just an attempt to bring order into Serbia. The adoption of laws, which are European laws, which include European standards, should prepare this country for entry into Europe, not to serve to account the authorities with its citizens, nor with the municipal administration. It is true that this is the largest government in the environment, in Europe. You can interpret these criticisms in various ways, they can be both well-intentioned and malicious and demagogue, but that's a fact, we have the largest number of ministers. But I am much more interested in the impact of these ministries than the number of ministers. Maybe that government could be smaller. I'm sure every next government will be smaller. I am sure that this government will pave the way for Europe so that it will cross a lot more kilometers towards this European path and that some other government will remain in a less difficult position to do, and much more affirmative jobs. We have come to do measures and jobs that are neither popular among citizens nor among voters, but if you want to go forward and if you have obstacles on the road, you can remove them, and you can visit them. I think once and for all, it's best to remove obstacles. I know that there will also be those who will deliberately set up these obstacles, but I am sure that those who are waving at the photographs of Mayor Dragan Gilas know that Belgrade will be the European capital. They refuse to invite them to introduce Serbia into Europe, because when they were in power, they showed us what it looks like. I know that you might have introduced Serbia into Europe, but we would only be missing two facts about entering Europe – we would be short of people and territory. Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to have to remove obstacles to Serbia on the way to Europe, to do those measures that are not popular, to do those that are popular, but we will never court the voters or the citizens, but we will do the work for which we have been given the mandate. Today we're doing a job for which we've been given a mandate. Mr Ljajic, allow me to congratulate you at the end of my presentation on everything you have done to meet the international obligations of the Republic of Serbia in order to speed up this path to Europe as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-03-0.u29443	People's MP Alexander Pejcic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-03-0.u29444	I thank you, Madam Chairman, I didn't mean to report for article 104, but I was provoked by the discussion of Mr Milivojevic, who is probably not playing solitaire right now, but has gone into his own discussion. What I wanted to deny this time, and the word is...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-03-0.u29445	People's MP, you've called to say the Rules of Procedure have been injured. Please act under Rule 100, which implies an obligation to quote which member of the Rules of Procedure and in what way.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-03-0.u29446	The dignity of this home. As Vlajko Senic answered, I replied on that principle. Mr Milivojevic provoked all of us MPs here, especially DSS MPs, when it comes to demagogy. Isn't it, Mr. Milivoviæ's demagogy...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-03-0.u29447	People's MP, I warn you that you are under obligation to say that the Rules of Procedure has been injured.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-03-0.u29448	Infringement of the dignity of the Assembly, Article 104.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-03-0.u29449	What was injured in Article 104?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-03-0.u29450	Mr Milivojevic insulted me as an MP. He didn't tell the truth, he was spreading misinformation. That's why I called in Article 104. Let me explain. Mr. Milivojevic, when you talk about demagogy, isn't it demagogy when someone in the campaign says they're going to open 200,000 jobs? Isn't it demagogy when someone says they'll bring in "Fiat" and also open new jobs? Isn't it demagogue when someone in the campaign says that pensions will be 70% of the average personal income? As for Leskovci, you said there was a new coalition in power there. That's right. Your mayor, without any recommendations from this assembly, began firing workers from local self-government. He fired 50 of them. Do you know what principle? The principle of party books. Most workers who have lost their jobs in this case are members of the DSS and the SRS. However, Mr. Kocic hired one man, an assistant. You know what his profession is? His profession is brother-in-law. He's Mr. Kocic's brother-in-law, democratic brother-in-law...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-03-0.u29451	Two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-03-0.u29452	Next time you talk facts...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-03-0.u29453	Thank you. National MP, Article 104 obliges the chairman to intervene if the speaker breaks any of the rules during the speech. National MP Srdjan Milivojevic used the term "demagogue discussions". It's not an insult, it's a diagnosis of the style someone speaks to in the National Assembly, so there's no breach of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Aleksandar Martinovic wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-03-0.u29454	Mrs. Komic, I want to speak as deputy head of the SRS parliamentary group because Mr. Srdjan Milivojevic has brought a whole series of lies to the expense of the SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-03-0.u29455	You have no word, MP, thank you. National MP Zoran Krasic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-03-0.u29456	Mrs. Comic, it's not a violation of the Rules of Procedure, it's a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-03-0.u29457	You don't have a word. National MP Jorvanka Tabakovic, followed by MP Jovan Palalic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-03-0.u29458	Dear citizens, colleagues, present representatives of the government, instead of reforming the state administration, we have received an act called the law, but which by its nature, the way in which you regulate and define everything that was supposed to be envisaged cannot be law, and is trying to treat, as you say, red tape. I think it's the basic problem of this government, which, after all, is caught in its own trap to present incorrect data in the legal documents, the budget proposals it delivers to this assembly, and I'm not talking about other delusions. Today we criticise the number of employees you have and criticise the way these people are fired because it is not the last measure the government takes as a savings. This is the first measure, instead of being the last. What did the government take as a austerity measure before it decided to take a measure that is minor -- 0.27% of the budget deficit? Even 480,000,000 dinars are not savings and the effect of these measures, when you take taxes and contribute; even without reporting these fired people to the National Employment and Contribution Service, the effects of these measures are insignificant. If the government had done anything to make savings where the money is being poured out and where she admits that she entered to apply her institutional powers in control, we would have talked about this law differently. So the defense of red tape here is an attempt not to consider the wrong proposed law. We are not defending bureaucracy, but try to convince one man that the ineffectiveness of this bureaucracy is his personal merit, as the minister described last night – that they find a job for themselves. So when they hire it, before they get a job or after? So the ineffectiveness of bureaucracy is a reflection of the poor regulation, unregulated procedures, lack of control, evaluation and application of the Labour Act, and all of that you have. Why aren't you applying? Is any of the banks closed because of some counter-office officer, please, or because of the bad business policies of the credit committee or, worse still, the board of directors or executive directors, etc.? Do you think anyone believes that bureaucracy is to blame? What argument did you offer? While the minister spoke of the criterion for the surplus of these people being used to determine this, he said, "I have received visible indicators from the unit for a comprehensive regulation reform. “ That’s what he said yesterday, and in the paper he said that in a meeting with his associates, who are career professionals, not politicians, he received a oral report that they have some people in his ministry who have little to do. It's a criterion for leaving someone without a job and stamping a unit, which in a month of some enlightened evaluation will happen to a man and leave him on the street. In public enterprises, in the state administration years ago you have the opportunity to fire bad and inefficient personnel. This is a selfish measure of the superficial government that protects itself. Even the number of ministries is not proof that some government is expensive, but the way these ministries work. As a reduction in the number of people here is not enough evidence that we will get a reformed state administration, not a certain number of bureaucratic people to be fired. However, what would you say in ancient Rome, “What kind of law are you talking about if I hold a sword in my hand, ” that sword is in your hands, regardless of, for example, that the Law on civil servants has tried more to arrange for you to take over employees from one authority to another, without a slow internal advertising procedure. Well, it's in your power to shorten it, it's your people, the chiefs. Are you now going to put an end to that body that was doing internal advertising, since it's too much public competition? I don't think so. How many years does it take you to legally regulate the status of appointed persons, officers in command positions; it has been extended for the fourth year? Believe me, I'm sorry for the paper you brought to this assembly. This isn't hyperbole at all. It is amazing that you are getting into the right of local self-government to handle certain affairs in the way that tradition and the European Charter allow it. And unconstitutional, people. How many trials do you have before the court for the unconstitutional dismissal of people from the former Serbia-Montenegro community? How many 231 people in the IRS have won disputes or will they get? I said 200 million dinars is a damage the state should pay for Dinkic's illegal dismissal. And now people are received in that organ, while you are announcing discharge, without competition; you will not be subjected to any new testing. We've already seen you reform the state administration. Some people suffer today because of it, living on the edge of existence. Who can call it demagogy today? Who's going to offer counterarguments for this? Who will tell me that in the ministry of Mr Ljajic for the last two years in the section of the disabled sector, for the protection of disabled people, the number of employees from six has not been increased to 12? Who's going to tell me that the IRS in Subotica hasn't been admitted in the last two weeks by seven new people, no competitions, and that they're going to be fired by some, maybe even high-quality, and some new ones are going to come to their seats? I really think this is the first measure, which had to be the last in one serious and responsible government. You didn't do it, and the grade you got in this debate isn't even bad enough, as you deserve.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-03-0.u29459	The People's MP Jovan Palalic has the word, and after him is the People's MP Dragan Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-03-0.u29460	Dear Vice-Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister Ljajic, there are many concerns about this set of laws, and the biggest culprit for the complete confusion that is now taking place for the purpose of representing this law is the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have Minister Milan Markovic, who is in charge of the system of state administration and local self-government and labour relations in state authorities, who was fenced yesterday by these two laws. You have Minister Mladjan Dinkic, who has nothing to do with these laws, under the Ministry Act, but defends them most bitterly and strongly. Today these ministers are absent, and there is a Minister for Labour and Social Policy, whose policy should be to protect jobs, and we are just firing people with these laws, i.e. The government of the Republic of Serbia is firing people. This whole story is a story in gloves. Gentlemen of the government, you speak in gloves. Tell the people, this is happening because we're being pressured by the IMF. You're firing because you're making arrangements with the International Monetary Fund. What efficiency? Not a single criterion to convince citizens that there is no such thing as efficiency. We've been talking about guillotines for months. Here is the guillotine of jobs, and this guillotine is sent down to the citizens' jobs in the state administration by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You're doing it, the guillotine of jobs. You announced employment, 200,000 new jobs, European and socially responsible government, and you became the government of layoffs and layoffs. The best definition, the qualification of this government – the government of layoffs and layoffs. But a number of the bad consequences this law causes are not just about layoffs. These laws will lead to a serious collapse of local self-government. The real goal of this law, I'm going to try to explain it through the discussion, is to further reduce the transfer funds. You want to further reduce the pressure on local self-government already reduced transfer funds. A law on civil servants, which in one part has a positive side, in fact, by prolonging public competitions for another year and by changing the High Official Council (which becomes a party body, because of the 11 members of the six proposed by the Minister for State Administration and Local Self-Government), strengthens the party state. You are protecting the people you set up in 2008, among other things, the assistant ministers. These people are not set up by public competition, as defined by the Law on Civil Servants, but by appointment, and by amendments to the Law you have extended it for another year. This is the strengthening of the party state directed by this government. As for the law on determining the maximum number of employees in local self-government, it is an unprecedented pressure on local self-government, and no criterion, when it comes to determining this number, is defined here. The absence of each criterion shows exactly the provisions you have in this law. At one point you say – each local self-government should have four employees per thousand. A single criterion, but the only one you're trying to place here should show the objectivity of this law. At the same time, you make a full-time cookbook when it comes to out-of-work employment, all 10%. Where are the criteria? If you tell anyone – you'll have less and less, then I guess that applies to working relationships outside the working relationship of the labour contract. No, all 10%. The absence of a criterion is if the total structure of the transfer funds participates 40%, so it is said – the discharge will be reduced by half. So, where's the criterion? You didn't offer any criteria here. But then there are specific threats. Yesterday, Minister Dinkic says "this is volunteering", volunteering under guillotine; if you do not fire voluntarily, I will abolish your transfer funds. Where's the point of the story? The amount of transfer funds that the government has abolished in the event that employees are not fired is greater than the earnings of those employees they receive. There's this thing and the government's goal, to further reduce the transfer funds. Why? Because of what's just been pointed out here, so hot and so firey, it has nothing to do with the IMF. There is, you want to save it, but since you don't have the courage to fire people in the republican administration, you transfer it to a local administration and create additional confusion and a problem with local self-government. Who's gonna pay the severances? Local self-government. From what means will they pay them? People now finish their budgets, they don't know if they're paying their severance fees, how many employees they're going to have, whether they're going to cut off their transfer funds. In total chaos you will bring cities and municipalities, and at the same time you are forcing cities to form municipal police and hire new people. A complete paradox, and criteria that no one here can explain. The authorities here said very shyly – people, they cannot be the only criterion of four employees, so they mention municipalities that do not really have that number of inhabitants, so they mention jurisdiction, the size of the municipality, so they mention the number of settlements, the need for infrastructure, the economic development. None of it's in your possession. The point is to save as much as possible on local self-governments, which you have already put on extra weight. These three laws are related and when someone tries to avoid responsibility says – the Law on civil servants is good, but these two are problematic. The Civil Service Act is in office of these two laws. I will remind you, here is Mr Ljajic, to lower his rights to more levels than the previous governments: you have first reduced the rights of people who remain jobless and go to the labour market from two years to a year; now unscheduled persons from six months to two months. You do that to speed up the whole process. Why 31. 12? Because you're in trouble with the International Monetary Fund and you need to cut deadlines, reduce the rights of institutions, shorten the procedure when it comes to the whole procedure of determining whether or not someone is satisfying. And grading. All this is reduced – evaluation, rights and deadlines – only to get as many people fired as possible. The essence and key of this law is the release for one-time use. You fire people for one-time use, and one-time use is solving the problems you have with the International Monetary Fund and the deficit. That's what people should be told not to cheat here. We've been talking about some efficiency for days. What efficiency? Who evaluated efficiency in certain municipalities? Has a functional analysis of individual municipalities and authorities been done? What are the real needs? What are the jobs? We don't see any of that here. We only have numbers, and those figures are talking about an account that should point to a potential savings fund that should be achieved by these layoffs. At the same time, I repeat once again, the Civil Service Act, changing councils, creating a party body, will determine who you will hire and extend deadlines by 2010 to keep your staff in such a massive and massive government. It's all done backwards. It's all done without any analysis. One more thing that no one has mentioned, and it falls very far into the eyes, what about the province administration in Vojvodina? You have mass employment there. Wasn't there any savings? Why didn't anyone mention the administration of the province government? Take statistics and see how many from 2006, after the adoption of the Constitution, new people have been employed in new institutions that have been established past the statute (public enterprises, funds). It's hundreds of people. It doesn't touch here, but that's why there's pressure on local self-government. What's the problem? Go ahead and run an analysis here. You don't have to go over your knees for a month or two, but you're running a functional analysis by the secretariats and authorities of the province, so you'll see how many people have come past any criteria. Therefore, here I give the word to Mr. Ljajic, it is not clear to anyone why he is defending this law, it would be interesting to hear whether he is behind him; whether and how he means to solve this problem that you will make for people who will be jobless, their existential problem, when you are already reducing them from six months to two months of unscheduled status, when they have no criterion of being fired except by party line. Because it'll be guillotine on the party line. The guillotine is the concept that we listen to every day, the guillotine of working relationships, and the guillotine on the party line. All of this will end with new layoffs and the drive of people into the street, and there will only be another basis for the dismissal that this government introduces when discussing the law on bankruptcy proceedings. It's a real sector of impact and there's gonna be new layoffs. Therefore, the government that said that the government, which is to be employed, is becoming the firing government. With a discharge government, we need to finish as soon as possible, go to parliamentary emergency elections and ask the citizens if they have elected such a power to discharge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-03-0.u29461	National MP Aleksandar Martinovic wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-03-0.u29462	Mrs. Komic, you have just violated Article 101(2). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which says – if they are offensive... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-03-0.u29463	National MP, member of 101, regulates the right to replication. The replica, whether or not giving a replica, cannot be the subject of a breach of the Rules of Procedure, since it is the discretionary right of the chairman. Please do not abuse the right to speak. That is what Article 101(3) states. The word is made by MP Dragan Stevanovic, followed by MP Kenan Hajdarevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-03-0.u29464	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will try to begin my discussion with two findings that Mr. Senic has spoken here. On the one hand, he insisted we don't go back to the past, but before that he realized we had a bad administration. The Serbian Radical Party believes we must look back on the recent past and find the causes of a poor and inefficient administration. We cannot turn to the future, create an efficient administration and efficient administrative capacity if it is attributed to themselves by people who have made the administration big and inefficient, just as they themselves call it and experience it. The Serbian Radical Party considers it a completely pointless and hypocritical explanation of this law to be an analysis of the efficiency of the administration, if it is done with aspects from which the government and all those who represented it yesterday and today in this parliament. You cannot bring the efficiency of the administration into contact with the number of employees. The number of employees in the administration is the sole responsibility of the government of the Republic of Serbia and of all those in power since 2000. The opposition did not hire and rule the administration as it is today, but we cannot hear from the government's representatives to realize that they are guilty and responsible for such a thing. Everyone's talking about something that's bad, but they're avoiding finding the causes of that bad and obviously unsustainable condition. You cannot compare the number of employees in local self-government with the number of 1,000 citizens and the municipality and realize that the municipality or administration is effective or not. It is pointless for every serious man, for every serious politician and anyone who knows the principles and models of the functioning of the state administration and local self-government. It would be much smarter for Mr Dinkic, on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, to present statistics on how many building permits were issued individually by a municipal administration, city administration or ministry responsible for this; to tell us what statistics concerning the establishment of a tax administration at the level of local self-government and what effects, how many taxes and revenues local self-government is financed from; how many infringements or other proceedings were initiated by city or municipal inspection and police. These are parameters based on which you can appreciate whether an administration is effective or not. There are certainly too many employees at certain levels. Imagine this, a few months ago, this assembly was under the pressure of Mladjan Dinić to pass the Law on evenness (so-called "Strengthen". equal) regional development. It provides for agencies from regional to municipal level, which should employ who knows how many people. Now that same man and that same party here promote efficiency and rationality and convince us that the administration is not good and that it needs to be reduced! We're asking the government, Mr. Minister, how are you going to fit this law into the fact that you haven't yet formed agencies, regulatory bodies, what have you committed yourself to by adopting a series of laws in this assembly? They are yet to be formed. You assure us that it is impossible to apply and enforce the law if these bodies are not present. You haven't formed them yet. You limit a number that can be employed in the Republic administration, or you want to fire two or three thousand people. These are absurds. These are paradoxes. This is non-chalantity that will cost tens of thousands of people social security, minimum and elemental social security. This isn't a demagogy. Here demagogy is promoted by those who represent the law, because they are absolutely responsible for the fact that the state does not have quality and adequate administrative capacity. Someone here was just talking about demagogy and insisting on exact data and facts, so I will try to reflect why we are contesting the credibility of you who promote this law to implement it and to ensure that an effective administration is improved at local and state level. Here's what's going to be of particular interest to you, Mr. Minister: day 16. Three. In 2007, the Assembly, or the Belgrade City Administration, brought a solution that ended Mrs Nadezdi Vukcevic's working relationship. Otherwise, at that moment Mrs. Nadezhda Vukcevic was a lawyer with 30 and change (and you will see why I say "cour" years of work experience. The deputy secretary of the City Administration Secretariat has been relieved. Of course, the work contract was terminated, she remained unscheduled. All this might be in line with the Labour Act if the second part of the story did not follow now: it took Mrs. Vukcevic two months to get the first condition to retire, meet 35 years of work experience, and only four months to meet the second condition and go into retirement. However, with the assessment of the city's powers, Ms. Vukcevic Nadezhda, a solution to Tamara Stojičevic, who in the meantime became the secretary of the Assembly, and today is the Secretary-General of the Government, is found to be a solution to the interruption of the employment relationship and a solution is made to pay for the 22,000-euro stimulant severance or 1,784,498 dinars. Now you who represent the Democratic Party, because the government in Belgrade is democratic, will assure us that in an efficient, rational, homely way you arrange relations in the state administration, the city administration and local self-government. It is important here to mention just one more thing, which, of course, I must never forget and I think this will be interesting for you too – Mrs. Nadezda Vukcevic is the wife of the special prosecutor for war crimes Mr. Vukcevic. So much for your impartiality and your credibility that you're talking about the proper application of this law. You see, Mr. Minister, there are a number of things that we really need to commit to in this law, there are Article 9 and Article 10, but certainly, because of time, I'll be glad and I'll be pleased to discuss it in detail.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-03-0.u29465	The word has been made by MP Kenan Hajdarevic. The time available to the LDP parliamentary group is four minutes. After him is MP Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-03-0.u29466	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in public, is the illusion that by adopting these two laws, I am particularly referring to the law on determining the maximum number of employees in the republican administration and the proposal for a law on determining the maximum number of employees in the local administration, citizens' lives will be significantly better, i.e. there will be an increase in red tape productivity, i.e. administration at the republican or local level. However, as the LDP Parliamentary Group, we cannot get an answer to one question that our President Cedomir Jovanovic asked yesterday, and today my colleagues, which is why the proposals of these laws do not treat public enterprises, i.e. why these two laws bypass 590 public enterprises, of which 582 operate with loss, i.e. Why is this bill not treated by 180,000 employees in public enterprises? We also asked in the debate yesterday how much savings are achieved if these two laws are implemented. Because in the public and media, the process of proposing these two laws was followed by public debate and some information that it is necessary to pass this law in order to reduce the deficit in the republican budget. We believe that the number of employees in the Republic and local administration is not the only reason for the poor work of the Republic and the local administration, i.e. by reducing the number of employees, there will be no improvement in the work of the so-called so-called ‘republic and local administration’. bureaucracy. The Liberal Democratic Party thinks that improving the work of the administration comes in such a way that the state, or state authorities, should withdraw from all those areas of social life in which the state, the government, must not be an employer, must not regulate what needs to be done and how. Also, LDP has several concerns about these laws, especially when it comes to the law on local administration, and it concerns the cost of severance. Who will be in charge of paying the severance payments to those workers for whom, under the law on the reduction of the number of employees in the local administration, it is necessary for it to be paid? Will local self-government in some way be stimulated by the republican budget, i.e. by increasing the level of transfer so that they can accomplish it? Also, these two laws suggest that one of the criteria for reducing the number of employees will also be property status. Who determines the criteria for this property status? We believe that these laws, i.e. republican and local administrations, cannot be a polygon or a way to solve social problems. We need to have an effective administration, and we won't have that if this is how we solve social problems. One important question that the LDP wants to ask is about the municipalities to be formed, for the city administration, or specifically – how, for example, after the local elections on 6 December, the Kostolac municipality will form its municipal administration, if the bill prohibits the increase in the number of employees, and they do not have any employees as a municipal administration? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-03-0.u29467	The time available to the LDP group has been used. The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic. The time available to the parliamentary group is six minutes and thirty seconds. After that, MP Milan Lapcevic, and the time available is one minute and 15 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-03-0.u29468	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is difficult to talk about the bill's proposals to determine the maximum number of employees in the republican and local administration, not to recall the genealogy of all the promises you made to Serbian citizens from the 2008 election campaign to today. A year and a half ago, during the election campaign, you promised 200,000 new jobs. You've won the election and you've formed a socially responsible government, whose social responsibility is no longer trusted by Srdjan Shaper, who has baptised this government. At the beginning of this year, you heard what the global economic crisis was, even though it was already planetary for more than a year. After the first tirads that the crisis would bypass us, so that the crisis would only benefit us, you turned the board around and started talking about how jobs had to be kept by all means. In April of this year, you released a test balloon and announced layoffs from the state administration, but you quickly and retreated, arguing that there are no billions and 100 million dinars in the budget for severances and that the layoffs will not be, that in November 2009, you would be in a position to prescribe only the excess quantity in the form of 2.224 persons employed indefinitely and 560 persons employed for a certain period of time in the Republic administration, while in local administrations, that number of employees scheduled to be fired and doubled. All this speaks of a government that is unable to have a single course and is unable to secure new jobs, but also to preserve existing jobs for Serbian citizens. In the light of this proposal for a law, you have cited Article 97(8) as a constitutional basis. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which reads: "The Republic of Serbia regulates and provides a system in the field of working relations, protection at work, employment, social security and other forms of social security, and other economic and social relations of general interest. “ The end of the quote. Don't you think it's a little cynical to leave people without a job, without conditions for existence, and to refer to the Constitution and to provide employment and social security systems? It is an interesting piece of information that you have stated in the reasons for the adoption of a law establishing the maximum number of employees in the Republic administration, where you have said, again, I will quote: "Currently, the number of employees at a specified time and persons employed by all grounds is around 3,400." "about 3,400 employees" is not an exact data. How can you determine the maximum number of employees if you don't even know the current number of employees in the republican and local administration on all grounds? Who should know the total number of employees in the Republic administration, if not the Government, who is also the proponent of this law? Irregularities are also seen in Articles 10 and 11, as you in Article 10 prescribe the obligation of the Head of State Administration, public agencies and other authorised persons to carry out checks on the quality of the work of civil servants within 30 days of the date of entry into force of this law. On the other hand, the number of employees in the state administration from 2000 to 2009 increased, by some estimates, by as many as fifteen thousand employees. Minister Milan Markovic himself said in an interview in early October of this year, justifying the government he participated in, that by the last two years the number of employees in the state administration has increased by almost 5%. This raises the basic question – what criteria did you have when building up the administration, other than party membership, obedience and loyalty, when you are now assessing their expertise with this law? Do you know how many people in Serbia are engaged in unpaid trial work until their ability to do the right jobs is determined, and you hired an army of people without pre-evaluation of their expertise? The question is, would you hire in your private companies unprofessional and unnecessary, without any criteria other than party belongings? I don't think you would, but when it comes to employees who will be paid by taxpayers, Serbian citizens, you probably didn't care about that. Will the ability, as provided for in Article 10 of this proposal of the law, now be checked for the possession of a membership book, of course, by the party in power? As for the number of employees in local self-governments, this number cannot be calculated only in terms of population, but other elements should also be taken into account. First of all, I am referring to the competences of local self-government, the obligations arising from different sectoral laws, where there is a obligation for cities and municipalities to have employees of certain profiles. You had to bear in mind the necessity of introducing municipal tax administrations, which increases the number of employees. There is also a new Law on Community Police, which adopted this assembly and which includes the corresponding number of municipal police officers in 24 cities, which further increases the number of employees and requires the corresponding amount in local budgets. I also believe that there should have been small municipalities in Serbia, but very dissociated and large on the surface, so municipal officials and other employees under control must have a large territory, which is also required by a number of perpetrators. If you already wanted to streamline the number of employees in the state administration, you should first list all the jobs in local self-government that are necessary, and define the number of employees in such jobs depending on the area, size and specificity of municipalities, and only then on the number of inhabitants. In the end, I would also like to dedicate a few words to the effects of adopting this set of laws, because you have not convinced us that the damage to the level and quality of public services will not be greater than the value of the savings, if they save at all. The short-term effects do not exist, that is, Minister Dinkic said in parliament yesterday, because as long as this package of laws is adopted, 30 days for the assessment of the capacity of employees, so the complaints, which will certainly be, the first discharge under this law will be carried out only in the first quarter of 2010, and the amount in the budget is required for the severances at the level of the amount of salaries that the layoffs would receive, so that they do not exist in fact, not counting the reduced payment power of the laid-offs. I believe that this measure cannot be enough to balance the budget even for the longer term, as Serbia needs much bigger, essential savings and will therefore vote against these draft laws in the election day of the Prosperity Group MPs, Serbia - SNS.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-03-0.u29469	Thank you. The word has a National MP Milan Lapčević, a minute and 15 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-03-0.u29470	For the rest of the time, I'm going to try to define in a few sentences what's been talked about here today, which is demagogy. This law, which has been proposed, this set of laws proposed, particularly laws limiting the number of employees in the state and local administration, is a real demagogy. Demagogy is, in fact, the way it's proposed and the people who suggest it. Since 2001, when you raise the number of employees from 8,000 to 27 and from 2007 from 22,000 to 34,000, as it is now, and you propose a law that will limit the number of employees in the state administration and reduce costs, it is called demagogy. First you hire everything you have per party, and then you suggest, as a rescue solution for the state, to reduce the number of employees in that same state administration by firing those who are not your equalists, so instead of the state administration, we'll have a party administration. Demagogy is also when in the same day Mirko Cvetkovic urges investors to invest in Serbia, and his deputy says Serbia is the last at the speed of obtaining building permits. Demagogy is also when you talk about guillotine regulations that will reduce procedures, and two months ago you're introducing a rule that the owner of the tailoring shop, in order to verify the health book, has to pay 200 dinars and wait for three days to get a solution to how much he owes to the PIO Fund. It's called demagogy, dear gentlemen of the ruling coalition.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-03-0.u29471	The time available to your MP group has been used. The word is by MP Aleksandar Martinovic, followed by MP Dusan Maric. The time available to the Parliamentary GroupSRS is 44 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-03-0.u29472	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, much has been said about these bill proposals. I think these bill proposals, first of all, are inhuman. So, talking about reducing the number of employees in the republican administration, not reducing the number of ministries, not reducing the number of agencies, the administration's body within the ministries, is primarily inhumane. If you followed well what the government representatives told us yesterday, then the thing looks about like this: everything will go better when we fire 2,000 coffee cooks, porters, cleaners and drivers from the republican administration. You know, Serbian citizens, you're having a hard time living and there's a huge budget deficit, which is why we're being criticised by the IMF for these people; we'll all get better once we get rid of these people. Now the question is, are there any citizens in Serbia who can believe it? How is the Serbian government not ashamed to propose such laws in a situation where it does not want to reduce the number of ministries? How is it possible that the Serbian government is the most massive government in the region, and you say you are monitoring European assets. Supposedly, you want to integrate Serbia into the EU, and you have a bigger government than most EU governments. Mr. Todorovic introduced you yesterday to a fact that you probably didn't know, and this is what your esteemed MP Srdjan Milivojevic called demagogy, that there were only eight ministries in Serbia from the time of Prince Michael until 1918. With those eight ministries, Serbia has actually managed to become one of the most prosperous states -- not in the Balkans, in Europe. In the late 19th century, the Serbian dinar was worth the same as the French franc. At the time, Serbia with eight ministers managed to free Kosovo and Metohija and southern Serbia, today's Macedonia, and to create a practically unique state of southern Slovenia. Since 2000, you, gentlemen, have been able to bury, destroy, with your friends from Montenegro, this mobster Milo Djukanovic and his foreign sponsors, the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, so you have ruined the state union of Serbia-Montenegro and are now preparing to destroy the Republic of Serbia by quietly recognising Kosovo and Metohija's independence and by preparing to educate a new state in the country, some new independent state of Vojvodina. The question arises whether this government is listening to what former governments, the Dosmanian government have been saying since 5 October 2000 and so on. Yesterday, says Minister Milan Markovic, dead cold -- not a good Law on civil servants, too complicated a procedure, who will now wait eight months to conduct a competition, so we can put a civil servant in place. Laws passed in 2005. When the Serbian Radical Party claimed that the law was bad, they said – no, you are representatives of the hated regime of the 1990s, you are stupid, you understand nothing, you are uneducated, you are against Europe. Then you claimed it was reform law, that the law was in line with European standards. In 2004, when a public presentation of the draft law on civil servants and a whole series of draft laws in the field of state administration was made, you publicly boasted that you had received a positive opinion of the OSCE mission in Belgrade on all these laws. Four years later, a Democratic Party minister comes to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and says -- it's bad law. Who can trust you more? How many democratic parties are there in the Republic of Serbia? How many governments are there in this country? How is it possible that suddenly there's nothing wrong with the government and local administrations? The ruling coalition's MPs here say -- we have an inefficient state administration, they're working slow, they're very lazy, they're corrupt, they're like this, and you're publicly boasting about how you've implemented the reforms, how the European Commission praised you, how Ollie Rehn has pardoned you all over your head and how they can't wait in Brussels for Serbia to join the society of EU member states. What's our government like? Is she good or bad? What are these people doing in the state administration and in the local administration? Are they slow, lazy, corrupt, or are they quite different from that model you're showing us here now? Mladjan Dinkic became suddenly ill; he was a man in the morning alive and healthy, as the people say, he could tear a horse's tail out, and in the afternoon he got a fever, probably because he knows that television broadcasts by the Assembly are much higher in the afternoon than in the afternoon. A man, in order to avoid the confusion, not to be watched by millions of Serbian citizens, to magically explain -- gets a temperature. This government, which has 25 ministers, cannot send a single minister to sit, as, here, sits Mr. Rasim Ljajic, shut up and follow what is happening, but you delay the session for the afternoon, when you count that there is less ratings and when your shame and shame will be less. It is true why Mladjan Dinkic didn't show up yesterday at the National Assembly and why none of the ministers showed up. Yesterday, Mladjan Dinkic says – a guillotine of regulations should be implemented. The same one, Mladjan Dinkic, who praised us, let's say, in 2002, along with his friend Bozidar Djelic, the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration – I remember these times – super law, reform, democratic, God asks you what kind. Yesterday, a man, dead cold, says -- you know, slow is that tax procedure, two counters, three counters, who's going to wait for it now, etc. Three months ago, a man could not live with Oliver Dulic -- a great Law on Planning and Construction, Reform, Democratic, European, with that law we enter the EU. Yesterday Mladjan Dinkic says – the procedure for issuing construction permits is slow, foreign investors are leaving us, etc. Who are you kidding? What are these laws that come before the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia? One minister praises, the other minister praises. One minister says the law is reform and the other says - the law is wrong. Then we break the car to those people who work for ten and fifteen thousand dinars a month. How are you not ashamed to fire people who feed their families with these fifteen thousand dinars, and you will not fire a few dozen State Secretary and Assistant Ministers, who has only one ministry, Ministry of Economy and Regional Development? How is that possible? In which country in the world does it cost more coffee cooks than the minister? More expensive is a driver and a porter than a secretary of state. More expensive is that woman who works in the dressing room than the assistant minister. If you explain to me that it exists somewhere in the world, tell us so we can learn something from you. It is nowhere to be found, but you want to break a car on those who have no connection, no influence, and who, according to Negos, are “a sad orphan without anyone anywhere.” You gentlemen start by yourself. Show on your personal case how the belt is tightened. You know, it's easy to be smart when someone else gets hurt. How is it possible, which is the smart guy who calculated that Serbia needs just 25 ministries and that with 24 ministries everything in Serbia will fail? Where does it say that Serbia must have 25 ministries? Where does it say that Mladjan Dinkic must have 63 State Secretary and Assistant Minister? How come you didn't think to fire one of them, one of those great counselors, special advisors, deputies, assistants, etc.? You will not forgive anyone, but you will receive them. That's why you're gonna fire people who feed themselves and their family to those ten or fifteen thousand dinars. You, ministers, who came to the National Assembly today in the cars paid for by this people, ask your drivers for what salary they are working for. Ask what they think of your reforms and how you think of introducing them into the EU. Start on your case, if you are people, if you are heroes, if you really mean Serbia's citizens well. Come on, give up something. There's a higher salary for you, Mr. Ljajic, than your driver's salary and it costs the state of Serbia more than the woman who cooks your coffee. But you will not give up your ministry; neither will Mladjan Dinkic, nor will Oliver Dulic, nor will Tomica Milosavljevic. When they don't, then we're gonna fire these citizens who are barely making ends meet. Then we'll say -- Serbian citizens, we've done a rationalization of the Republic's administration, there's no problem anymore, we'll be great when we fire 2,500 or 3,000 people who work for a monthly salary of 10,000 to 15,000 dinars. Now all you need is someone to believe it. Here, a DS MP was implicated in saying that the Serbian Radical Party was in power. Mrs. Comic is constantly defending him. The Serbian Radical Party has been in power for two years, we have defended the state in Kosovo and Metohija against the Cypriot terrorists and NATO bombs and we are proud of that. You gentlemen have been in power longer than the late Slobodan Milosevic. You've been in power before, we all remember. It was the Democratic Party in power before 2000, and the SPO was in power before 2000 and various, which were now in the G17 plus, were once in the SPS, and then in JUL they ran into a thousand and one game, so now they were in the G17 plus. Not only has history started since October 5, 2000. Of course, you forgot all that. You now want to convince the citizens of Serbia that you are taking great care of them, and ministers cannot sleep at night, and now you are going to help the state budget by firing these people. Who's to blame for the state's apparatus being the way it is? In 2001, you had 8,000 people, today you have over 30,000. Are these people brought by the Serbian Radical Party, are they our party personnel, are they our aunts, aunts, uncles, relatives, godfathers, neighbours, etc., or yours? Who's going to look these people in the eye now? When you needed their votes, when you needed people to drag you to the polls, when you needed them to share packages, to share the money, then they told them – only you do it, you will work in the state administration, you will work in the local administration. Now you're gonna fire them. Of course, there will be some new victims, and that circle will never close. Then the government sends a simple-shut Parliament, looks at the clock and can't wait for the debate to end and move on to some new agenda. Gentlemen, your bill is bad, both from legal, both economic and moral aspects. You show these laws that you are inhumans, that you have no scruples, that you have no courage and that the only thing you care about in this life is your personal buttocks. The policy of the buttocks is this government's policy.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-03-0.u29473	People's MP, I warn you to take care of the way you address other people's MPs and participants at the session and to take care of the language you use. So, a warning, in case you have a chance to talk to each other again, to remember that there is a Article 104 that talks about the way we address each other. The People's Messenger Dusan Maric has the word, and after him is the People's Messenger of the Prophet of Radet. The time available is 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-03-0.u29474	Ladies and gentlemen, if someone who was uninformed in political opportunities in Serbia yesterday listened to the presentation of Minister Mladjan Dinkic, I am convinced that he had to think afterwards: I ask God to come to power; for, Minister Dinkic spoke most of his exposure as an angry opposition, as if he had not been in power for nine years, and as if he were not one of the most responsible state officials in Serbia for the fact that the republican and local administration has suffered thousands of extra officials. He has announced here a series of measures to be taken to address this problem. However, he had the opportunity to solve the problem over the past nine hundred years if he had wanted to. The next thing, all the promises made yesterday by Mr Dinkic and which today repeat the government's representatives of most Serbian citizens listened before 5 October 2000. You then claimed that the state apparatus was too bulky and overpriced and you promised that one of the first measures you would take would be to reduce the state administration. You've done exactly the opposite: over the past nine years you've increased the number of civil servants four times. At the time of Milosevic, as you said, dictatorships and international authorities, 8,000 officials were employed in the government and ministries. Now there are, under this people's, democratic power, as you call it, we don't know exactly whether 28,000 or, as we heard yesterday, 30,600. I am now taking the opportunity to ask Minister Ljajic a question -- how many employees are working in the Serbian government, in the ministries? Why am I asking this? Because yesterday, Minister Dinkic said they were employed by 30,624. This is new information for all MPs and citizens of Serbia. I remind you that he's been operating on a number of 28,500 employees for a year. We had budget adoption in the Assembly, so we had budget rebalances. In the accompanying materials, the data that has been delivered to us, when everything is added together, turns out to work in the government administration about 28,500 people. Now I'm asking the correct question, who's lying? If it is 30,624 plus three thousand who work for a certain time, through student and youth cooperatives, then the question is why has the government kept 2,000 employees from the public in Serbia for a year? Like most SRS MPs, I think it's a good idea to reduce the bulky state apparatus. In the short term, however, it will not provide more significant savings in the budget. The money saved from unpaid salaries will be spent on paying severance fees to workers who get fired. Secondly, what counterpart Martinovic was saying, it is clear that among government officials who will be fired will not be found by those who cost the most the state of Serbia, which are state secretaries, ministerial assistants, advisers, and we have heard today that there are more than 300. According to the custom that exists in Serbia after 5 October 2000, the car will break on the back of the orphanage, on the back of coffee cooks, cleaning women, maids, drivers and couriers. The next thing I know, why isn't the government asking for the money that's missing in the budget for those who have it the most? That's what Serbian citizens are most interested in. Why is this money not required in the millions of accounts of Miroslav Miskovic, Predrag Rankovic Peconi, Vuk Hamovic, Bogoljub Karic, Vojin Lazarevic, Miodrag Kostic, Zoran Dracula, Stanko Subotic, Filip Cepter, Peter Matic, Milan Bek and similar? Fourth thing: why is this reduction not covered by public companies workers? In the last year, during the debate in the congregation, we often listened to data that there are officials who earn more than a million dinars a month. We know that in public enterprises, from these in the Republic to those on the local level, there are tens of thousands of extra workers. Most of them are employed by party membership, by birthline. Next thing you know, why don't you make sure the money's out of these power agencies, the administration? Today we heard that there were more than a hundred of them. Miroslav Miskovic boasts that he has an annual turnover of several billion euros. We have heard officially that 850,000 euros per year for bribery and corruption in public procurement in Serbia, has been stolen. By privatising Luke Belgrade, two and a half billion euros were stolen; through the construction of the Uste Business Centre, the state was damaged by 30,000,000 euros; through the privatisation process, Serbian citizens were robbed by several dozen million euros. The finance minister claims that the state doesn't know where 130 billion dinars are spent, exactly how much the budget deficit is, and you decided to ask for money to survive the state from maids and cleaners. Otherwise, since you've been in power since October 5th, this practice of party-line employment has been present in most local self-government. But fortunately for citizens, there are also some municipalities where people's money consumption is taken into account, where government is responsible for the state and its citizens. I must point out that one of these municipalities is the Great Plan, in which the SRS is in power. I am proud to point out that the coming of the SRS to power in the Great Plan of Citizens of this municipality cost no single dinar of additional budget expenditure. We haven't invented any directorial, no functional jobs. On the contrary, in the last five months alone, we have abolished five directorial posts, we have reduced the number of workers in the municipal administration, we have reduced the number of employees in public enterprises. Yesterday, Minister Dinkic pointed out that, under this new law, we are being followed by four employees per 1,000 inhabitants. We have 3.4 employees. So, according to the provisions of this bill, we have 30 employees less than we follow. These days in the public are as an example of household business, household relations in the area of employment and the municipalities of Ljig. I must point out that there is an SRS in the League of Power. Here, too, as an example of household business, mentions the municipality of Aleksinac, Cačak. In Aleksinac for several years, the municipal government has been run by the SRS, and in the ruling coalition SRS, too. In the end, I want to say that this law provided for by the government certain criminal disciplinary measures for municipalities that have surplus employees, and that's good. However, it is not good that no stimulating measures have been envisaged for municipalities such as the Great Plan, which respected the law, which saved millions of euros from the state budget through domestic work. It's my basic objection to this law. The Great Plan has 30 officers less. If you multiply it by an average salary, you get the fact that every year there were about 25,000,000 dinars in the state budget, in ten years it's 250,000. I remind you of one information known to this home that for five years, 45,000 people in the Plan do not have proper drinking water. They drink poison water, which leaves lasting and severe consequences for their health. I now urge the Serbian government to take advantage of this fair relationship between the Municipality of the Great Plan towards budgets and to transfer part of the budget as a sign of stimulation to the Municipality of the Great Plan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-03-0.u29475	The word has a folk emissary of the Faith of the Rade. The time available to the SRS parliamentary group is 21 minutes and 50 seconds. She was last registered on the list of MPs by application for a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-03-0.u29476	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, these proposals of the law on the reduction of the number of employees (so I will call on these proposals for public reasons, that people know what it is) were given in the October 22nd assembly procedure, and besides those examples Mr. Todorovic made yesterday, on October 24, two days later, "Evening News" announced a contest where the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Serbia, the human resources sector, the staff administration, employed, if I have calculated well, 22 new people in this ministry. When we talk about saving and what should be the intention of these laws, yesterday we heard that it was not, in fact, to remind us that at the head of the Ministry of Defence, Mr. Sutanovac, who was known to the general public for being employed by the police ministry at the then federal level, took severance and returned to state authorities. He took an severance worth of 24 salaries, similar to this Mrs. Vukcevic, who, as we heard, took 22,000 euros in severance fees, completely illegal; worst of all, it was the wife of a special special prosecutor, i.e. a special prosecutor for war crimes. Mr. Ljajic, I suggest that since Brammertz is coming to you tomorrow, I assume you will take him to dinner or lunch to save some money from the state register – let Mr. Vukcevic pay for that dinner or lunch, I guess there is some of this 22,000 euros left, which his wife illegally took from Serbian citizens. Yesterday we listened to the ministers here, when these laws, which are the place in parliament, but they're not here today, are likely not to listen to what we want to tell them and what they've been told and told all day from this place. With respect to Mr Ljajic, I will first and foremost address the public of Serbia, because the ruling majority MPs here are almost and are not there, or very few are present. It's probably a shame for them to sit here and listen to what they're going to vote on in a few days.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-03-0.u29477	National MPs, I remind you of the obligation to stay away from the assessment of disqualification and qualifications concerning private life or private attitudes of other persons. That's unauthorized by our rules of procedure. Please refrain from it. This is a warning. Go on.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-03-0.u29478	Mrs. Komic, please, last time you interrupted me several times, I am here as representative of the SRS, and here I am presenting the value court of our parliamentary group and I have the right to present it in relation to other MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-03-0.u29479	People's MPs, you have no right to present your assessment of what and how any other MP from any of the MPs feels. This is a second warning, so I ask you to use the style, which is yours, and the freedom of speech, which is yours alone, the continuation of the time that is at your disposal, in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-03-0.u29480	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. Given that I said I would address the public of Serbia first, it's nice that the citizens have heard you now. So when we talk about the government's intention and the others that form the Boris Tadic regime today in Serbia, about saving and saving people's money, I will also remind you of the fact that this one from the Big Brother affair is Dragan Djilas, mayor of Belgrade... And in the Big Brother affair, among other things, it was because it allowed to be built without a building permit, an 1,800-metre-square facility. The application for authorisation was as a child's accommodation, culturally-fun and sport-recreative purpose, and was later given, via his agency, to the house "Big Brother". So, the one from the Big Brother affair, Dragan Gilas, without a decision from the Belgrade City Assembly, allegedly bought the city council's needs of the city's administration for a billion dinar building and has already paid in the name of an advance of about 400,000 dinars. For those who will be fired these days, thanks to this regime which is now managing Serbia, I would like to say that it is 30,000 average salaries in Serbia today, that Dragan Gilas, past the law, has given the current owner of the "Index" for the purchase of the building from the Serbian budget. Yesterday, Mladjan Dinkic here said that this data is about how many government employees should be, and how much in the local administration the government has come under some budgets, some European standards, etc. However, Dragan Djilas denied Mladjan Dinkic, as last night on a television show, he said the city of Belgrade hired the Faculty of Organizational Sciences for these jobs. How paid for the service of the Faculty of Organizational Sciences has not told us and I would like to know from the government's representatives. I am sorry that Mr. Milan Markovic is not here to remind him of a statement he made to a daily list a month ago, with a huge headline on the cover of "Safeguarded money for cancellations". So, not being hypocritical, it would be more likely to be applied to the national “What Is Smart Shame... “ It’s just a matter of time before I go home. ” Instead of the government coming out with a big headline on the front page "We provided money for new jobs", the ministers were praised – we provided money for cancellations. So if it's also from this government, it's really too much. Also, I would like to remind the public that Mr Milan Markovic, Minister of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, has not been "deprived" from the media for more than two months, both electronic and printed, last year, talking about some reform of the state and local administration, with some special contributions, as he said, with some special fees. What of it, after a year, I hope we'll be able to ask Mr. Markovic when we talk about the details of these laws. Of course, an election campaign cannot be skipped in which Boris Tadic promised 200,000 jobs and that Democratic Party meeting where, with his hands up, he urged Serbian citizens to guard their jobs. Now I ask Boris Tadic and you from the Democratic Party that Serbian citizens in the state administration and local self-government will save their jobs if they do not have a Democratic Party membership card? I tell them it's an impossible mission, because these laws we're discussing today are actually a kind of lustration of those people and those officers who have been employed long ago by the state administration and local self-government, who have not succumbed to the pressure to join the Democratic Party in the meantime. This will indeed be a deal with political inexperiences, mostly with people who do not participate actively in political life, but probably did not hide their party membership or commitment. Now, for God's sake, let them stick to it when the Democrats line them up and start giving them quits. Why can I claim this? Because, Mrs. Komic, we were opposition, and you and we were, when this law on civil servants was passed and when you and we opposed the provisions of this law. Mr. Milan Markovic had great discussions when he talked about how this law actually introduces a party state. We thought it then, we think it now, we spoke then, we speak it now, but Milan Markovic changed his mind from the period when he was an opposition until today when he exercised power. Last night on one television, I saw a fellow MP who is now in high office and I'm not going to mention his name because I don't want to cause replicas, you've taken enough of my time. This colleague says that this authority is serious and that this government at the state level shows how it is being saved. So not only will the citizens feel the economic crisis, but the state officials will feel it. Really, poor ones, they're not gonna have three drivers, but only two, they're not gonna have two coffee cooks, they're gonna have only one. I don't know if he'll... In fact, we claim that no assistant minister, no special advisor, none, God forbid, the Secretary of State will be fired under these laws. You didn't see it coming, and it's not your intention. But that's why, for example, you're going to totally destroy the municipality of Kurzumli. These days it's up to date because the citizens of Kursumli buy cigarettes per piece in kiosks. Some people working there in courts, in the municipality and in the Ministry of the Interior, in the local MUP. You've suspended their courts. By the end of the year, there has been no court there, or since the beginning of next year. In the municipality you will have one number of people to quit; whether you will be in the MUP, health care and education, it will be some next phase. In this way, you are actually carrying out decentralisation, which essentially comes down to "belogradation". So instead of doing something to bring such environments like Kurzumli back to life, you're killing what lives on from the state, from the budget, or from, conditionally speaking, the state's business. Yesterday, Mr. Milan Markovic here in his address made such a fair complaint to, I suppose, his associates and fellow ministers, because they are the ones applying this Law on civil servants, so he said that out of 350 positions, as far as it should be filled under this law, only 50% was filled, that it was the fact that since the adoption of this law the three governments changed, that two or three times there were elections, that the executives, as I had just written it, were misusing the public competition institution, so instead of indefinitely receiving workers for a certain time, had many party influences. If you don't believe it, take a stenogram, this was said yesterday by Milan Markovic, engaged in the moment, remembered how he criticised this law. Says Milan Markovic – the executives are taking the line of less resistance, so they did not give poor marks when assessing the work of the employees. I now ask him, in absentia, what is the guarantee? People have not changed, the same people who went on the line of less resistance favored party personnel, received a certain time of party personnel (which he confirmed yesterday) and are now the managers of these state authorities and authorities of local self-government. Now where's our guarantee that when they fire the workers, they'll take care of it and they won't go on a less-resistant line? I was also interested in yesterday's debate by Mr. Mladjan Dinkic, but before that I have to remind myself of another fact spoken by Milan Markovic, for public reasons. He boasted, so yesterday all the televisions said that this new law on civil servants as one of the disciplinary violations introduces and alcoholism in the workplace. He didn't find a hole in Mr. Milan Markovic's pothole. This provision has existed since 1991, true, in the Labour Act and not in the Law on Civil Servants. It is not the essence of the law that someone cannot be alcoholized at work, but it is the essence that after the dismissal of these 10,000 people (about), who will be fired that in the state administration, which in local self-government, based on these amendments and additions of the Law (or else it is the sixth or seventh additions, so much about the quality of this law), at a certain time and through which any cooperatives can be employed 10% of new people. So there won't be any reduction in the number of employees in the state administration or local self-government. It will come to you that you will clean up from party indifferences and ministries and government in general and municipalities where you are in power, and those who are in power will abuse this law. This is the essence of the adoption of this law, which, by no means, follows these two laws on the reduction of the number of employees. He says Mladjan Dinkic, and that's why I believe he really had a fever yesterday and that under the temperature here he spoke and I feel for him, that this law will reduce the number of counters. It's going to shrink, because there's going to be some killings, the execution of the law, some Middle Ages guillotine, I have no idea what a man's saying, otherwise these days it's actual. He says these laws have something to do with the silence of the administration, because there will be no more silence from the administration. The silence of the administration, Mladjan Dinkic said, means that the request is accepted, means approval. That's what nobody's ever heard of, except yesterday from Mladjan Dinkic. I don't know if there are lawyers in his ministry, you should have reminded him of the existence of the General Administrative Procedure Act, which implies that the silence of the administration is a negative legal act and that administrative disputes are mainly initiated because of the silence of the administration. But Mladjan Dinkic has more to do than that. He argues that these laws will achieve the efficiency of the administration. And that's something that's really amazing. How do Mladjan Dinkic think, this government and this regime will increase the efficiency of the administration if it reduces the number of employees? Because you can be sure that without a job, those people who have a lot of work experience in these state affairs are people who usually know how to do this job. That's how you came up with it. It's going to be the first phase of firing. The first phase was Dinkic's destruction of banks and all the layoffs they received at the banks in due time. Now, since he has not exempt health and school from reducing the number of employees in the republican administration, the next phase will likely be to reduce the number of health and school employees. He's an interesting member of 2. The bill, colleagues said, calculated by Mladjan Dinkic, that the optimal number of employees is 28,400 in the state administration. We have recently heard here from ministers that 28,000 employees in the administration, the state, that from that number of 8,000 2000, it was increased by 20,000 and that it was 28,000. If that's the case, then you plan on hiring another 400 people with this law. If that's not the case, then you've been deluding the public for months. Even you, Mr Ljajic, spoke about this number – about 28,000 employees. However, we are confident that you share the opposition's opinion when it comes to layoffs and at all social problems in Serbia, you are mostly in this way addressing the public in the media, but to that, Mr Ljajic, you do not have the right as Minister in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. It is clear that you are trying to prepare the citizens of Serbia for this newly formed party of yours, with yours and some kind of social protection, but only verbally. It is your legitimate right, but legitimate law as citizen of Rasim Ljajic and president of that party. But as Minister of the Government of the Republic of Serbia you must say what you will, because these laws will bring you another 10,000 social cases, 10,000 families who may have nothing to eat when they spend in a year what they get in the form of severance. Did you see, when it comes to these 10,000 people getting fired, how many families are there where there's only one employee? One gets fired and you get a problem at your ministry. Did you communicate with your colleagues that way when you proposed these laws? In Article 3. The bill you say exactly what I just said – that you will allow 10% of the number of employees at the level of the republican administration to be employed at a certain time. So, what are you doing? You fire people to hire aunts, aunts, sister-in-laws and, of course, those who make you cry, who work in your election campaign, who carry packages that buy elections, in all these local elections that are current and that were current in this previous period. Unfortunately, it's almost impossible, especially for these members, and I intend to analyze from one member to another all three proposals. I hope that, on the subject of the amendment, we will talk about it enough, although Milan Markovic said yesterday that even the number of amendments speaks of these laws being acceptable. I don't know about others, of course, but we from the Serbian Radical Party have submitted quite a number of amendments. Our intention is to mitigate the negative consequences of these laws as much as possible, although not all amendments to these laws are good because, we repeat, about 10,000 people in Serbia will be out of work. In one amendment, we suggested that instead of this number 28,400 be 28,401. I must say that we wanted to make a mockery of this proposal of yours, because you didn't convince us, Minister, those who spoke yesterday about these proposals, how did they get these numbers and how did they calculate that 10,000 families should become social cases? A large number of people who will be fired, we argue, are people who are over 30 and over 30 years of employment, and in the meantime have not become parties to the ruling regime. They no longer need you, they will be social cases; their children are unemployed, their parents, if they have them, live and receive pensions of several thousand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-03-0.u29481	People's MPs, the time available to the MP's group has been used. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before concluding a joint principled search, I ask if they want the word of the president, representatives of the parliamentary groups, or someone who has not used his right? Yes, the word has a People's Messenger, Zoran Shami, and a time of four minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-03-0.u29482	Thank you. Dear Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr Minister, I hope that the DSS MPs in today's discussions have at least assured you a little bit that you should give up these two laws, I am talking about the laws on the maximum number of employees in the state or local administration. And again, because I think it's worth repeating what I said this morning, that I simply can't imagine a good enough attribute to qualify these laws, and that I remain fundamentally decent. I will remind you, and now I speak directly to the MPs of the DS, that once this summer, when you passed that law, not to say what, on the information, I have told you that the greatest responsibility is to you because you are the biggest party in the ruling coalition. That's when I advised you to give up that law. Unfortunately, you did not give up and, behold, everything that followed followed later. Now you have something similar – the very law of your coalition partner, but it will be your responsibility. And again, no one has a problem with us all getting to an efficient and rational administration together, I guess that's for all of us, but not in this way. Let's respect one particular effort and see what is the optimal number of people who need to work in the state administration, is that these 28,400, three thousand less or three thousand more. Certainly, on the basis of common sense and some visions can come up with that number, and then make a whole system – what about people who are overweight, what about those who are pre-retired, what about those younger, etc. It would be one law that I believe the entire assembly would accept, to be said. Now you say this - 28,400. That's some number pulled out of your sleeve. Why 28,400? The answer is – that's why. I don't see another answer. You have the same thing for the local administration – why four per thousand, and not seven, is not five, is not two? You can't see the reason. I was going to say as much as my last effort to simply ask you to withdraw these two laws from the procedure, not to embarrass yourself and this assembly. If anyone enjoys being embarrassed, some of them are sitting there and they don't mind, let them get in the way, but don't let us get in the way. Of course, the Democratic Party of Serbia cannot accept such a law. No, he'll vote against him with great pleasure. We've made amendments, but that's what we're discussing in detail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-03-0.u29483	The word has Minister Rasim Ljajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-03-0.u29484	I'll try to answer some of the questions that were asked here very briefly. Mrs. Jorvanka Tabakovic mentioned that there were 12 employees in the Department for Persons with Disabilities of the Ministry of Labour, and there were six employees. It is true that it was employed two years ago eight years ago, that nine were now employed and that according to this rationalisation there would be two fewer, so there would be seven employees in total. Never did the Sector, really, have 12 employees. As far as the figure is concerned, this number of 30,624 is the number of August of this year. The truth is we've all operated on this number of 28,000 employees in the administration, but after this analysis that was established before the law was passed, we've reached the figure of 30,624 employees. In the same way that we all operated with a number of 87,000 employees in local self-government and public enterprises at the level of local self-government, so that we can then get a figure of 103,000 employees at the bar, including, once again, public enterprises. As regards employment, the number of 28,400 is the figure in which the employees of newly formed institutions, i.e. those institutions that will be formed after some of the laws that provide for the establishment of these institutions, i.e. institutions, are adopted. As for further reform of public enterprises, this is the start of a process; it is necessary to lay down a regulation for reforming the entire public sector, including public enterprises, because this process would not be complete without it. As for employment in those municipalities that have less than four employees per thousand, or in some municipalities that are yet to be formed, Article 10(2) of this law clearly foresees that they can be employed in these municipalities, with the previous opinion and consent of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. But it wasn't nailed, as it was said here. Also, I would like to say that for this law on determining the maximum number of employees in the state administration, the consent of the largest union, the Independent Union, and the union in the state administration has been obtained. For this second law, on local self-government, there has been no consultation, there has been a mistake, but there will be an opportunity for some amendments the union has submitted through some parliamentary groups to fix this law, and we will be ready for that kind of repair as well as for the second law. I therefore expect that in the end we will get two laws that, if nothing else, get the consent of as many MPs as possible, regardless of whether it is the ruling majority or the opposition.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-03-0.u29485	I am concluding a joint principled search on the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on civil servants, a bill establishing the maximum number of employees in the Republic administration and a proposal for a law establishing the maximum number of employees in the local administration. We move to the 12th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on the Regulation of the Republic of Serbia's Republic of Serbia and borrowers or of a guarantee for commitments under the loans of the Inter-Dionary Bank for Reconstruction and Development (Principals) I inform that, according to Article 88(1) of the National Assembly of Ms Slavica Djukić-Dejanović, next to the representatives of the promoter Dr Diana Dragutinović, Finance Minister and Slobodan Milosavljevic, Minister of Trade and Service, has called for the meeting also to be attended by Zorica Dunović, Assistant Minister of Finance and Rajna Andrić of the Ministry of Finance. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, are five hours, as well as that this time is allocated to MPs' groups of MPs in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group, and this is: Parliament group For European Serbia – one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; Parliamentary group SRS – one hour, seven minutes and 12 seconds; Parliament group G17 plus – 28 minutes and 48 seconds; Parliament group DSS - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; Parliament group Progress Serbia – 25 minutes and 12 seconds; Parliament group SPS - 18 minutes; MEP group LDP – 14 minutes and 24 seconds; Parliament group Nova Serbia – 10 minutes and 48 seconds; Mission group of minorities – eight minutes and 24 seconds and the PUPS - six minutes. According to Article 93(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, MPs who are not members of parliamentary groups, have the right to speak every one to five minutes. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not done so by now, to submit their application for a word with the order of MPs. I would like to inform you that the parliamentary groups have authorised them to represent them on this agenda point: MP Dejan Mirovic to the SRS Parliament Group, MP Jorgenka Tabakovic, MP for Serbia. According to Article 142, paragraph 1. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a principle search on the Bill's proposal and I am determining a break in work, with the thanks of the MPs, as it's usually a break between 14 and 15 hours; in order to complete the work on one item of the agenda, I thank you for taking a break from 15 to 16 hours today. I am informing the MPs, on the basis of Article 85(5), that we will be working after 18 hours today; we will continue to discuss the point that is on the agenda at that time. This afternoon's part of our session today will begin with the question of proposing representatives to take the floor and explain the bill. Thank you. [[After break – 16:00]] Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our session in the afternoon. A principle debate was opened at the end of the day. According to Article 142, paragraph 1. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly opened a principle search on the proposal for a law on regulation of relations between the Republic of Serbia and borrowers or guarantees for commitments made under the loans of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Does Minister Slobodan Milosavljevic want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-03-0.u29487	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, allow me to briefly present to you the proposal for a law on regulation of the relations of the Republic of Serbia and of borrowers or guarantees for commitments to the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. I hope you've had the opportunity to see this brief, clear and simple law and, I'd say, freeing the law, since it's off-limits. He only has six members. The aim of the law is to regulate the relationship between the Republic of Serbia and borrowers or guarantors based on the territory of the Republic of Serbia which are, within the meaning of Article 4. The SRJ's borrowing law with the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development is under obligation to the Republic of Serbia. This law regulates the status of the claim based on the specific components of the loan from the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Under the prescribed conditions of a business bank, debtors or guarantors are exempt from obligations to the Republic of Serbia, and the final debtors to these banks, for specific components of the loan. Both banks and debtors are exempt from commitments to the Republic of Serbia for loans related to concrete projects, which are partly regulated by earlier regulations. The reasons for passing this law are also very clear. The Republic of Serbia repays its debt to the EBRD, based on the Law on Borrowing of SRJ at the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Banks borrowers and their guarantors have made a commitment to the Republic of Serbia, with certain parts and components of loans granted as dinar loans to end-users of the bank without claim, because they are completely unrequited in the previous period. This law suggests that the Republic of Serbia frees borrowers and guarantees on this basis, given that final balance sheet debtors are practically not obliged to receive dinar loans due to devaluement. The conditions under which banks and end-users are released from obligations to the Republic of Serbia are: that the bank's assets were sold to the National Bank of the former SFRY; that banks paid off the money equivalent of these funds to end-users; that the foreign funds for the payment of these loans were provided by the National Bank of the former SFRY, which acted as a guarantor for the State of SFRY, the Republic of Serbia or the Autonomous Region, in accordance with the rules applicable at that time. These are practically loans and loans from several banks: Vojvodina Associated Banks, United Belgrade Banks, Agrobanks. What is most important for this law is that the end-users of these loans are released under the same conditions to banks in the Republic of Serbia. In other words, this is not a new borrowing, this is the release of companies from liabilities and I hope that in this difficult financial situation and year at least a little help and make the balances of these companies more realistic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-03-0.u29488	Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or authorized representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yeah. We've got two reported. The first word is received by MP Jorvanka Tabakovic, an authorised representative of the Group of MPs, forward Serbia, and then by MP Dejan Mirovic, the SRS parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-03-0.u29489	Thank you. First of all, I have to express my surprise that the proposer and those who voted in the assembly, with 126 votes, to join the debate on certain items of the agenda left item 12 alone, counting that, among the 57 laws here on the agenda, it is likely that this bill will go undetected. I really thought he was classified under the agreements, because it would be a place for him in some way, but I suppose the reason for leaving this point alone was because it was possible to submit amendments to this law, and the debate on agreements is being held as a single search – amendments and the law contained together. But I'm surprised that you, Mr. Minister, said only a few sentences on behalf of the Minister of Finance about something that is neither simple nor clear, and not so small a significant law, that it might be concluded from your opening statement. I just found out yesterday that this law will probably be on the agenda today. We, as usual, are going to have to make up for lost time because of yesterday's absent ministers, either indisposed or in temperature, not at all, and today we're going to have to consider this second law when we get there, according to that old good procedure. Who in this snow tonight manages to return home - succeeds, and whoever doesn't - sleeps somewhere along the way. Regardless of what we're gonna have to go home tonight when we're done, probably, and the next point, because it's obvious that only the two of us are gonna be, after this, and everything to stay here tonight in the assembly, I couldn't miss talking about this bill. I listened very carefully – simply, in the light of what you said, the truth about the bill you provided us was not contained. I'll start in a row. You said that the conditions for the release of banks are from the obligations they have as borrowers or guarantors of the commitments they have made under the loans of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development that they have had some relationship with the National Bank, etc. It's not true that these are conditions for release. These were then the terms of the use of loans from the 1980s and 1990s. So, the government didn't now prescribe conditions for release, and it's not about release at all. For example, it is said that for the Vojvodjanska Banka, this was a classic commission work done on behalf of and on behalf of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. So the minimum that the citizens of Serbia deserve and this assembly is to introduce them to the real essence of this law. I will only start with the reasoning and the work in which you say the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development has approved loans for the regional development of the Republic of Serbia, as so-called "the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development". a direct and indirect component, where the direct component was the import of equipment, and the indirect component of investment for investment in the country, which meant that one part of the credit used had to be used in foreign exchange funds and thus paid for that equipment from abroad, and this part - indirect component, was paid in the country, in dinars. There were more purposes: for the water fund, for agriculture, I'll say it later from the text of the law. What is important is that, in accordance with then applicable regulations (I read the material provided by the Government), the National Bank of the former SFRY provided dinars for the payment of the indirect component to the level of purchased foreign exchanges for one part of the loans. Look now, listen, citizens of Serbia, a way of declaring a commitment, so that this could be called a release of the obligation — the National Bank of the former SFRY, says, provided dinars for payment up to the level of bought-out foreign exchanges. The truth is: according to the loans approved by the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, and the banks now being released were guarantors, they were obliged to sell foreign exchanges to the National Bank. These business banks paid out the money users. They had a kind of neutral, or commission job. It's not about the bank's obligation at all, because it's already received funds, foreign exchanges, given to the National Bank of the then SFRY, and the dinars to the credit users. Why am I stressing this? This is, unfortunately, an ideal opportunity to remind ourselves of the congenital write-off of the Paris and London Club stories, when the state received debt forgiveness, but did not in the same proportion of debt forgiveness and each concrete user of the loan. Don't say you're releasing someone who doesn't have that obligation. It is said that in 2001 in December, during the euphoria of returning to international financial institutions, a $2.1 billion loan, which has been refinanced (unfortunately, citizens know what it is now to refinance) has all actually reached loans, used from 80th to 1996, are listed, due to sanctions unpaid, and this is called in the loan contract - the special terms of the borrower. These obligations were still, agreed and regular and tightened interest rates and had not been paid off by the annuities. In 2001, under the loan agreement, and under the SRJ Responsibilities Act with the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, published in the "Official Journal of the SRJ", number 69 since 2001, the Federal Republic is in charge of 2.1 billion dollars. The term ‘relieving the liabilities to the bank of the borrowers and making a commitment to the SRJ’ does not mean an effective release from the obligation. That law was very short. He regulated only the amount of debt in dollars, which is the usual thing, but he contributed to Annex A, B, the consolidation loan A, B, C, D and F. For us is the most important consolidation loan B, which contains all these credit parties, or loans, as we call them: both those with Agrobank and those with the ‘Vojvodjanska Banka’, which are the subject of today's alleged release from the obligation. What's interesting? In the light of this SRJ debt law and the contribution of the loans received and used for users and purposes, the Law on the confirmation of the loan agreement of the SRJ as a loan of B, which, in fact, defined the terms of use of this loan more precisely. There is now something that is very difficult to accuse today's power, not only because of what it did then, but also because of the behavior of irresponsible behavior that lasts and day-to-day. It is contained in the following - in the loan agreement for us is a particularly interesting Article II, which treats the loan and says this: "The bank agrees to lend to the borrower, under the conditions and deadlines set out in this Agreement, the amount expressed in euro. “ A loan to refinance all the commitments made, without checking any write-downs, etc. heavy interest, which are not paid for sanctions... all of a sudden, Article II shows that this whole loan is actually expressed in euro. Whether it had to be so, if the next position says – on the day of entry into force, the bank will, on behalf of the borrower, withdraw from the loan account and pay itself the amount equal to the sum of all these commitments, meaning, war, regular and tight interest, and they will be paid on 15 June and 15 December each year. But in this section 2, point 2.06 writes – the borrower may at any time require any of the following conversions to the terms of the loan, in order to ensure sound debt management. In 2001, the Republic of Serbia, then the SRJ, did not know for what reasons, agreed to make a $1.1 billion dollar dollar loan to refinance the commitments made at that time into euro, when the relationship was almost 1:1. What's the ratio of dollars and euros today? This could not have occurred at the time, but on behalf of which such an agreement was immediately signed, in which someone "smartly" estimates that the entire dollar debt turns into euro and that, as such, continues to repay it, although the lender, the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, leaves the possibility not only to make a conversion when it suits it, but to change the currency of the loan, whole or parts of the principal loan, requires at some point, a change in some other currency, when it can even negotiate and change the base of interest rate, variable to the fixed, with the determination of the upper limit, etc. Was there then any ignorance that debt could be managed? The signator of this loan on behalf of the Serbian state was Mr. Miroljub Labus. Not so unknown, Yugoslavia had a great practice of international borrowing. For a long time, the country's strategy has been preparing how to reduce these write-offs, soften and make it easier for the country to pay off those commitments, which no one has slowed down, but someone has to bring them down to a reasonable extent. Is it funny that I'm even surprised today that someone didn't take care of debt management at the time, if you as a government have the Public Debt Act, five years has come into force, five years has already been living on paper, and the Ministry of Finance still doesn't have public debt management. For the third year as I call and say, it can't be one cube in that organisational scheme that stands on the Ministry's website. The Public Debt Administration must manage public debt and assess the conversion, the amount of interest, when it will demand and what conditions it will accept when new borrowings and refinances are made. I know it's not the only law that's only on paper. They also know those who observe us and want to work with us that much of it is the effect of this assembly that works day and night, so there are hundreds of passed laws, which are incompatible with the Constitution, mutually, within the framework of border laws in cohesion, but also those that exist have no sincere intention to apply. If there is a law in some areas whose non-application does not have some serious weight on the state and the people, and that we understand, but when it comes to the Law on Public Debt, failure to manage public debt as it has been voted by law, as it is necessary for this country, it is unforgivable, at the moment when public debt reaches dangerous conditions. We cannot be comforted by Mr Dinkic, for example, measuring the country's debt only taking into account the government debt, which, by the way, is growing rapidly; he and the finance minister comfort us that it is only 32% of the gross domestic product. Those where we're looking for loans, those who take care of us by watching us because we're part of the world, don't have that kind of methodology. They account for the country's duty by calculating the sum of the debt of the private sector and the public sector, under private accounting for both the economy and the citizens and all that is called the real debt of this country. Is at a time when this debt by real estimates already comes to 80% of gross domestic product and there is no export branch that can say that there will be some inflow of foreign exchange that we will be able to cover this kind of debt and the need to pay off these debts, we are going out with one bill of law and we call it a small, clear, almost insignificant one, and in order to actually perhaps ask ourselves whether we understand where we are going as a state and where you, as a Government, are leading us with this relationship to debt. Will the weight of the borrowing relationship be understood if I say that this loan will be paid off by 2031, from 2005 to 2031, that whoever repays the loan because he was guaranteed and wanted to be so broadly and so irresponsible that the Republic of Serbia is guaranteed to pay the debt? There is also a decision on how to settle SRJ's obligations, where further details stand, where those $2.1 billion funds are in fact two billion and some euro change, etc. Who on behalf of the Republic of Serbia is he who will repay that debt? Does the Republic of Serbia have any wealthy cousins or safes somewhere, from which they will repay loans, and that is not really the budget of the Republic of Serbia? There's no and there's no other source, there's a budget, and it's very nice here. What else is controversial, what am I going to say within these first 20 minutes? It is alleged that the funds for the repayment of this loan which has refinanced the commitments made at the time are found in the claims collected by the Agency for the bankruptcy, recovery and liquidation of banks from the collection of then liquidated banks. The way that the agency referred to its obligations as an agency established by certain duties and obligations to the Government and how it dealt with the claims of banks whose bankruptcy was being managed and which is still ongoing – we have had the opportunity to read often about how the premises were issued, how the art paintings were sold and, what is most terrible, how they were donated to the business space of the National Savings, which someone had imagined as an ideal robbery of the century, and I assure him that there is no ideal robbery and that someone would eventually respond. You wrote in the light of this law that financial resources are not needed to implement this law. For the debt that has been converted from dollar to euro at the time of ratio 1:1 for the debt that lasts until 2031! Many of us won't even welcome that year, but our children and grandchildren of some will have to pay back what is 1.97% of the total loan per year. He'll feel fat that the government was responsible for them. You say they don't need funds. Is there any amount of funds collected in the Agency, in the amount of two billion, or minus what has been paid since 2005, and we know that there are no regular commitments on foreign loans? Then you're saying they don't need financial resources to enforce this law. So many open questions, which are neither an exception, nor a matter of moment. This way, that we still get a bill that doesn't have any explanation for what it means for the budget, and the Budgetary System Act...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-03-0.u29490	People's MPs, the time at your disposal as an authorised representative has been used. Thank you. The word is held by MP Dejan Mirovic, an authorised representative of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-03-0.u29491	Ladies and gentlemen, the essence of this short bill, I agree with the minister, is, in fact, in Article 5, because Article 5 provides that this law does not apply to the area of AP Kosovo and Metohija. This law can and must be observed in the context of ours, not ours, but the policy headed by the World Bank. Basically, this law, as well as other laws, as well as so-called so-called. The World Bank's write-off of $550,000 in debt shows that in practice the Republic of Serbia does not view the AP Kosovo and Metohija as its share, in economic terms, and in political terms it is not yet the case. Also, when considering this law in the context of the World Bank's policy towards the Republic of Serbia and the SRJ, and also according to the SFRY, the following conclusions can be reached. This is nothing new, it is not a new law and it is not a new way of working the World Bank towards Serbia or Yugoslavia, depending on the period in which this is being considered. So working with the World Bank isn't something new, it's something that's been going on since 1949, if I'm not mistaken. Officially, from 1949 to 1961, the co-operation was minimal, because Washington estimated it would be better for the then-Yugoslavia to make donations. If I'm not mistaken, it was $2.5 billion at the time, which is a lot more now. It is only 1961 that rights and practical co-operation between the World Bank and the SFRY begin. That this is true shows that only three World Bank loans were granted to SFRY and FNRJ between 1949 and 1961, worth $60.7 million then. Similarly, the IMF, and you know for a fact that the IMF and the World Bank act in harmony, is no secret. After all, Mr Jelasic admitted that a few days ago. The International Monetary Fund and the World Bank are still on the same street in Washington. The International Monetary Fund approved in that period from 1949 to 1961 to the former Yugoslavia what is now unimaginable – that it is not applicable to it, that a 15th member of the IMF Statute is not applied. Basically, this means that strict conditions are not applied which are present now, not only to our country. In that sense, the development of Yugoslavia was incredible, I must admit, although as a party and I, we have always personally opposed socialist politics, the East and the West, no matter what that means at the moment. The growth rate of industrial production in that period was 14%, which is amazing. The national income had a 209% growth rate during that period, which is also amazing. As you know, unemployment was minimal. Titoists, Marxists, led by Boris Kidrich, Josip Broz and the like, were still trying to be in charge of the World Bank. However, according to US expert Mrs. Liz, the administration questioned Yugoslavia's request to receive a $200,000 loan from the World Bank and other private and export-export banks. To be perfectly clear, the Americans wouldn't allow the government back then to be in charge of the World Bank. The point was that Washington then voiced concern that then Yugoslavia could not deal with such a responsibility. However, since 1961, for political reasons, I would not continue to spread the topic, there has been a change of the World Bank and the IMF has stopped applying the exception regarding the 15 rules and starting what is being applied today means – loans with conditionality. This led to the then Yugoslavia in a very short time... You must know that in 1961 this five-year plan was put in place, and it was abandoned after only a year and a half. Industrial prices, prices dropped by 10%. Life costs increased by 30%, inflation and unemployment occurred in 1954, which amounted to 25,000 in 1964, reached a figure of 160,000 people, in 1969, 159.000. Of course, it would have been even bigger if there hadn't been so-called exporting labour to the west. In 1964 alone, about a million Yugoslavs went west, similar to what happens to Poles today when they are in the EU. The dinar has weakened by 250%, and the foreign trade deficit has reached one billion dollars then. These are the results of what is called the World Bank's terms and conditions of the IMF. Of course, it didn't stop during that period. From 1971 to 1980, due to applying the World Bank and IMF conditions, the foreign debt of the SFRY increased by 600% and reached $18.7 billion then. In the period from 1980 to 1986, it's exactly the period spoken of in the law, the IMF pulled out, to use such a term, 31 billion dollars, then dollars, from the former Yugoslavia. Had there been no income from tourism, if it hadn't been for our people working abroad, it would have led to the collapse of the SFRY's economic system by then. At the same time, despite the payment of this 31 billion dollars, the former Yugoslavia's debt rose from $18.8 billion to $20.5 billion. So it's paid 30 billion, and it's still growing debt. These are the terms of the World Bank and the IMF, how useful they are for the economy of a country. Also, prices went up 7.6 times. Of course, the essence of the law is, as I said, Article 5. Surely you know, it is generally known that in August of this year, around $550,000 was written off to the Republic of Serbia, which is about 400,000 euros, if I'm not mistaken. It is presented in our media and by the authorities as something extraordinary, that it is a crucial economic incentive for our economy. However, when you compare it with the amount of ore in Kosovo and Metohija, which is an estimate of the so-called Kosovo Directorate, you will find the following comparison: $13.5 billion is the total amount of the value of the ore in Kosovo and Metohija, and in return we received $400,000 in debt write-offs. When you compare these two digits, you'll see what kind of work it is and who's benefited from it. Also, I'm sorry Mrs Dragutinovic isn't here; I appreciate her as an expert, I appreciate you, but one thing is what the books say... For example, in her textbook "Earth Growth and Development Theory", she says on page 48 that Harrod-Domar's model (you know what it is), which is applied by the World Bank, EIB, IMF, has been overcome. Those are her words. But that model is still being applied to this country's economy. It is certainly important to you, when considering this law, that, according to Mr Katic, who is an economic expert, the country's GDP is overrated, is not realistic. Do you know why? Because there are monopolies such as Delta, such as foreign banks, in our territory. It is precisely on the basis of this monopoly that they can increase margins and that these margins are not in line with the European average. Based on that, GDP is growing, and then we get false statistics, and that's when 160,000 people, in this year, are fired from work. So one is reality, one is the general observation, and the other is when something is viewed from just one angle. The law also mentions banks that went bankrupt. It's the four largest Serbian banks. Most neutral economists and we in the SRS agree that it was a catastrophic economic move. Of course, not only because the margins are four times larger than in the west and not only because interest on housing loans in Serbia is 8.3%, and beyond that, and in the EU 4.8%, in Hungary 6.3%, Estonia 4.4%, Romania, is 6.1%, but also shown by the following fact: the World Bank has just praised the move to destroy four of Serbia's largest banks and in 2001, according to our weekly, the move to destroy the Serbian banking sector has been described as a very courageous decision. As far as the World Bank is concerned, you must know that July 1st, 2009, so-called The prime minister and president of Kosovo, Thaci and Sejdiu, signed a World Bank accession. Interestingly, it wasn't done with the help of the economic parts of the US administration, it was the State Department, which is enough to say how economically it was, and essentially, a political move. You certainly know, which is strange, the question is not raised, that between 2002 and 2009, Serbia has paid about $450,000 to those institutions. However, all this is being undermined by this "fantastic" skill under allegations that $550,000 has been written off. It is known that the finance minister, governor and prime minister have signed the so-called the memorandum, which was sent to the IMF on 30 April 2009. The memorandum stipulates that the following conditions will be met - the freezing of pensions and salaries in the public sector from 2009 to 2010. That's not true. That formulation isn't true. It's not freezing wages and it's not freezing pensions. If you compare inflation, which is about 9% according to the data of the Republic Statistics Institute, and you add these two years, that means there's a pay drop and a pension drop of about 18%. That's the point. That's true. There can be no talking about some kind of freezing when it comes to pensions and wages. The International Monetary Fund and the World Bank asked for no additional employment. And, of course, the condition for the ministries to be abolished is about 40,000 million dinars. That's about 430,000,000 euros. I'm going to say frankly, you don't, not personally, but the government doesn't have the courage to say it, it's a coup against the state. If you end 430,000,000 to the government and the ministries, it's a coup against the state. Several billion dinars for health care were abolished and were given to less local self-government. The rest is not fulfilled, but that doesn't mean it won't be, because we saw what Mr. Simon Gray from the World Bank said. On the other hand, it is completely illogical to apply such measures if we know about the American anti-crisis programme – about $790 billion, printed, but it is still money, without real coverage, will be used to preserve jobs. So, quite the opposite of what's being applied here. In the first place is the preservation of employees in education. This is exactly what the World Bank requires of us – to fire employees in education. The Americans are doing exactly the opposite, thus preserving 325,000 jobs. The Russian Federation also applies a similar anti-crisis programme. However, it is based on real money, oil and gas sales. The following programme is applied in Russia: an increase in pensions is envisaged in 2010, contrary to what we apply, of 30% realistically. Contrary to what the World Bank advises, 36% more funds were allocated to local self-government in the Russian Federation in 2009. I would not quote Mr Krugman, Rubin; everyone criticises the World Bank programme and says that, for example, Slovenia did well not to apply this programme and that tax relief should be applied, not as is said here about VAT. They think that the recession needs to be fought by budget stimulants, not by what we do. On the other hand, Serbia is asked by the World Bank, and that is what Mr. Simon Gray has openly said in several of our media, presenting under the unbulent title program "How to do with less"... Turns each other off. The World Bank gentleman advises us to freeze pensions and to keep pension growth associated with inflation in 2011. So there's not going to be any growth, because inflation is going to eat that growth. He advises increasing the age limit for women, closing homes of health care, denying social assistance in health care, donating education and openly declaring that pensions are too large. It's a shame to have a representative of an international organisation tell that in our country. He suggests that health care is less than 12 billion dinars or around 130,000,000 euros. That's embarrassing. We know the conditions for our people to be treated. As far as education is concerned, it proposes a less segregation of about 160,000,000 euros. It is also scandalous, because, as you know, about 5% of Serbia's GDP stands out for education; in Hungary, it is 6% similar in Croatia, in Slovenia. There's no excuse for these demands either. Representatives of the World Bank here are glaring as all-knowing, infallible, like Dominik Stros-Kan, an IMF representative, who openly declares to our media on 3 October 2009, that the biggest problem in Serbia is neither the Delta monopoly company nor the monopoly of foreign banks, but that it is, however, pensions. This is incomprehensible from an economic point of view and can be said, if we want to be malicious, that the IMF and the World Bank want to destroy Serbia as a state and as a society. Governor Jelasic supports the so-called Reform moves and in an interview with "Volstrit Journal" and in an interview with one of our papers, it says we do not need a state of prosperity. We of the SRS think we should. We feel that we should also help our pensioners, and our unemployed people, regardless of political belongings, to age, and that we need a state of well-being. Who else supports these inhumane measures, must I say so? Ms Draginja Đuric of the Bank "Inteza". How is that possible? While the Serbian state and the Serbian economy record negative results, the bank notes positive. How is that possible? The only explanation is that they have a monopoly, that this monopoly responds to them and that this monopoly is harmful to our economy, to our population. Similarly, the company Delta, and foreign banks using high reference rates of 11%, can be said. We advocate, based on the experience of the SFRY, based on past experience, that responsible national and economic policy be conducted in relation to the World Bank and the IMF. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-03-0.u29492	Do any of the other presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? In this part of the session, time has been reserved for presidents and authorised representatives. Yeah. ) National MP Miroslav Markicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-03-0.u29493	Dear Mr. Minister, honourable fellow Members of the People, the respected citizens of Serbia who are watching this transfer, for an ordinary citizen who would have the opportunity to read the proposal for this law, whose name is - regulation of the relationship between the Republic of Serbia and the borrowers or the guarantee of commitments made on the loans of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, and what we have as MPs on these two or three sides here, would have to have a high professional arrangement and be an economist, a banker to understand. I'm going to say what I'm from my corner, I'm not going to say ordinary citizen, but I believe that's what most Serbian citizens think, too, from this I understand. First, I do not understand Mr. Mirko Cvetkovic's discussion, former Finance Minister and former director of the Privatisation Agency, when he spoke about the possible loan and support of the IMF for economic stabilisation, the preservation of the dinar course and so on, when he said that the state of Serbia had not been in charge. But we see from this bill of law that, turn around, turn around, in the end, it all comes to the state of Serbia. Some banks have failed, some are bankrupt, some are deliberately pushed into bankruptcy. Our banking system is one man's will, one political option that has been in power, as far as finance is concerned, for nine years, pushed into ruin, under ice. Now, here we have a bill of law where the state of Serbia takes all the debts; it was guaranteed and it was, whether it was called SFRY, SRJ or now the Republic of Serbia, for all of these. That's what we from New Serbia say when it comes to the loan, or the arrangement with the IMF. Who is the state of Serbia? Well, the state of Serbia is not just the current authorities and people in office. Serbia's state is citizens of Serbia, who are filling the budget. Therefore, the agreement with the IMF will eventually be paid by citizens of Serbia, and it is a function of surviving such a government. Let me just give you an example of one news broadcast on one television with a national frequency about 50 minutes ago. He says this, Mr Milosavljevic, this is your concern, you are the Minister of Trade – the city of Belgrade has concluded with the Spanish firm Kaf an 81m-euro contract on purchase, or purchase of 30 trams. Doesn't this look a little like what's been going on for four years -- that some people are calling for a 3,600,000-euro locomotive? No one for four years to say what's going on, if there's any leaks, is there anyone accused, is there a report filed? Well, getting these locomotives, like, wasn't right, so the director of the procurement board, which is of course from the Democratic Party says something... I'm very interested in what you're going to say about this news. I don't know if you've heard of it. When was the last time you saw the mayor, did he talk about the government, the banks, the finance minister, the Prime Minister, this job? So, it is said -- the city of Belgrade has concluded a contract with the Spanish firm Kaf (I think that's how it is read) on an 81,000,000-euro contract. Why am I asking this? Well, I'm asking, of course, was there a tender for these purchases, does the procurement board have an opinion on it? I do not dispute the need to buy not 30, but perhaps 300 trams or buses for the city of Belgrade; we all know, despite all donations and investments in traffic infrastructure in Belgrade and in the transport of citizens, that these trams are probably needed. Are you going to come by now as the Department of Commerce, did you give consent to this kind of procurement? Because, turn, turn, from this law that you've given us here, it turns out that in the end, the state of Serbia will be guaranteed to return. Those foreign companies, probably governments, that give us loans and loans know who they're dealing with. Well, of course they're going to ask that the state of Serbia is guaranteed to repay those debts; yet the state is someone who is the most serious one to repay those debts and to stand behind it. I ask you, for the second time, are you as the Trade Ministry familiar with this contract that the city of Belgrade concluded, as one television reported 50 minutes ago? The contract is worth 81,000,000 euros. We had a statement from the finance minister a few days ago that she doesn't know how 130 billion dinars of budget funds are spent. Well, are the funds in the Belgrade city budget the same people's money? So I realize that we have one budget that we bring here, there are budgets of local self-government and cities, but it's all people's money, it'll all come back after the people. That's one thing I had to say, and I'd like you to answer that question for me. The president, or the chairman, within these minutes, means I'm going to say something shorter than these twenty minutes, to ask something -- that twenty of us here present, unfortunately, just twenty, maybe something more, I'm not saying whether from opposition or from power, we don't stick our head in the sand here, in this warm room. A major drama is currently happening in Serbia, Madam Chairman. Hundreds and thousands of children and parents are in the homes of health and no one can tell them exactly what to do. 50 minutes ago, the health minister came out and said he had over four million vaccines and could be vaccinated whenever anyone wants and wherever they want. Of course, if he signs a statement that he willingly agrees to that vaccine. I'd like to ask you on behalf of all the citizens, to quieten the panic, the woman was just transported from Kruševec and died on her way to Belgrade, to call here tomorrow at 10 a.m. the Prime Minister and the Minister of Health, as I did this summer and the opportunity of the Minister of Health, without any politicalization to come and tell us what's true. We saw on TV last night one doctor, director of the medical center from Bezanjska hair – my people, she shows three beds ready to isolate and to receive patients. Three beds! And for respirators, which are said to be the most important in the first three hours, he says – we will remove from the surgical room. National TV correspondents say hundreds of people got sick, hundreds got flu. We've been on TV for three days: 162, then 169. I'd like to ask you not to be strict with the Rules of Procedure, these are extraordinary circumstances. We'll all agree to call tomorrow at ten and let the minister speak for an hour, let the citizens know. We are all under pressure, not just as parents, but as public figures, as officials, as MPs, as presidents of the municipalities. Let's not talk about the ministers, who are the most responsible, or the Minister of Health, come here tomorrow at 10:00 to tell us what's going on. At the various public services of other countries, we see what is happening in these countries. In Ukraine, three hundred thousand doses urgently, the prime minister of Ukraine awaits at night at the airport of the vaccine, "tamiflu", or as it is already called. We heard one good thing, and this is good for the Minister of Commerce to answer, that "tamiflu" costs eight dollars. Well, this is a 40-50 sale. Today, or yesterday, the bearers of the pharmacological mafia were released, their names and everything are known. You know why people die of pressure. Because, Mr. Minister, there's only five percent of the stuff in that pill that prevents pressure from growing, because it imports from China illegally, shovels and wagons and loads into printed boxes. I hope the police, as they have successfully begun to solve the drug problem, will step on it, so to speak, step on it. Therefore, Madam Chairman, I am prepared to receive a sentence, most frankly I am telling you, without any provocation, if I have "bounced" from the subject. I think it is in the interest of the citizens of Serbia and all of us to make an effort and to ensure tomorrow the presence of the health minister at ten o'clock, to address the citizens of Serbia, with the right and clear information, in direct transmission. To stop saying-saying, one television is reporting like this, another -- we have four million vaccines, and here we heard, from where Minister Milosavljevic is sitting, this summer we have 225,000 vaccines. If in the meantime, since the emergency session of the government yesterday, and the phone sessions, it's bought four million, it's an honor, but it's time to start giving these vaccines and no longer accusing citizens and parents of panic. Well, it's human, it's parenting. If they don't have the right information what to do, they have to go to health homes. Well, that's positive for health care and health care homes, which means that these citizens and parents have confidence in these health homes and these doctors as soon as they come in so many. A little while ago, there was news that three children were ill at Užica. Unfortunately, we all have to realize that this first wave of epidemics hit the children first and so much before I think it's an important reason why I'm asking you to ask and start tomorrow, if necessary, an hour before the time to address the citizens. The children's vacation has been extended for six days. So there's a reason. No one's accusing anyone of guilty; there's been an outside, an infection, an epidemic, but someone needs to contact the official information, an hour in a direct transmission. This way the press conference reports are different, which was more interesting for any of the media outlets to publish. There, that was the purpose of my application. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-03-0.u29494	The word has Minister Slobodan Milosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-03-0.u29495	I thank the President-in-Office, the honourable MPs, since three times in a few minutes you asked me to answer your question if I know anything about the purchase of trams for the city of Belgrade, here, I will try to give you information about what I know. I know there was a tender for the supply of those trams. I assume the tender procedure, public, is over and the best offer has been chosen. There is no legal obligation for either the city of Belgrade or the town of Cačka, Nisa, Pirota or any other city, to ask the Ministry of Trade for consent to public procurement conducted within any city of Serbia, in this case or trams. Unfortunately, I have no knowledge, no legal basis for answering the subject of tram procurement, and I ask you to contact the city of Belgrade, the mayor and the competent people who need to answer that question, if that's interesting. I didn't understand from your discussion about this law, whether you agree or oppose the release of credit to end-users, as proposed by this law, of loans under the same conditions as the Republic of Serbia, or not, so I think today is the main topic of the agenda. Just as I didn't understand Mr. Mirovic from the SRS. I understand, and this is common to us, to advocate prosperity, a better standard of living, a greater quality of life for all citizens of Serbia, including employees, pensioners, everything. I didn't understand, again, whether or not you are opposed to signing off on end-users of these loans. I call on you to use the time you have to discuss constructively and practically, if you can, help this law, as well as any other, be more quality. If not, then let's move on to those things that are next on the agenda, so that on this day when the snow falls you and you go home faster. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-03-0.u29496	National MP Dejan Mirovic has the right to reply, so MP Miroslav Markicevic, the right to replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-03-0.u29497	Of course we're not against what you're saying, these 160,000,000 euros, if I'm not mistaken, which is supposed to be saved on the basis of co-operation with the World Bank, but we are urging you not to view politics towards the World Bank separately, only through this law, but globally. In globally, if the World Bank takes 300,000 euros for health care, for education, then we are certainly against such co-operation with the World Bank. That was the essence of my exposure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-03-0.u29498	The word has the People's MP Miroslav Markicevic, right to replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-03-0.u29499	Mr. Minister, I see that there are some problems with communication between the Parliament and the Government, or you as minister. I got a tip today that you guys got... Since you're in charge of trams and you're not in charge of tamiflu, let me ask you, did you get my question, and yesterday it's 30 days, the legal deadline? It's about the business of some media companies that deal with public enterprises. It's in the area of trade, right? So you didn't get the question, obviously, and the president told me this morning it was addressed to all ministers. Now again I give you the question – have you heard of media companies owned by Mr. Gilas, Saper and Krstic, that for the last four years they have traffic of over 520,000,000 euros? I wish many more private companies had that traffic and so much revenue growth. There's nothing to argue about. It's just that they've been doing business, I doubt it, with public enterprises without a tender, and with one, Telekom. Have you heard of this company? You heard. I heard that too, so I'm asking how is it possible that last year's company at this time, as you say, may not have snowed at that time, raises the price of services to the citizens 63%, and shows a profit of 120,000,000 euros, and with these people, or the owners of these companies, has exclusive advertising contracts? Is that sucking money out of citizens through the budget of public enterprises? It seems to me like that, Mr. Milosavlevich. Secondly, quite specifically, now that you've responded so nicely, I'm glad for the trams, that's all right, I was just asking, why didn't you answer for the tamifle? Is it true that the import price of the drug "tamiflu" is eight dollars? At what price is it sold in our drugstores? Who's making money for that? Have you wondered what the price of "tamiflu" in pharmacies is? Last night we could hear nice, because drama was also in Ukraine, that Prime Minister Timoshenko was waiting and that the government would take over all those packages of "tamiflu" and hand it directly to the citizens, because the purchase price is eight dollars. And here it's sold for 30 or 40 dollars. Is it necessary for someone to earn money on this torment and the misfortune of a people, who, I hope, will not be in that much like in some other countries? Why didn't you answer that? Since you didn't get this question I referred to 30 days ago, I now refer you publicly to the Agency for Economic Registers, Mr. Minister. It says here that these people had 230,000 per cent more jobs. One of these is also the director of the agency, the Government's Office for Joining the European Union. How can we join the EU if government officials deal with public enterprises without a tender? It's a direct sucking money out of the company's budget. (President: Three minutes, time is used. Thank you. Who owns it, in essence, Telekom? I guess the citizens of Serbia. I'm waiting for a written answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-03-0.u29500	Do any of the other presidents or authorised representatives want a word? No, I don't. I would like to inform you that, pursuant to Article 93(4), they are Article 4 The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, until the opening of a principled search for a written word, with a number of MPs, submitted parliamentary groups: DSS, Forward Serbia, the SRS and the ZES Group. I give the word to the first registered MP, according to the application for the word, and that is Parliament of People Milica Vojic-Markovic. After that, the national envoy, Jorvanka Tabakovic, is.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-03-0.u29501	It's a little different list, but no problem. I have prepared myself for this topic and I am very pleased that Mr. Milosavljevic is a representative in front of the government, given that according to this fact, I have made little sense of what I want to say, because I would like him to be familiar with certain things and that we can talk about it in an extremely open way. Therefore, the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development approved loans to both Serbia and the Republic of Serbia, and much earlier in the past and the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, and these funds were mostly used for two purposes: for the import of equipment and for the financing of certain investments in the country. This law, which is before us, really has a rather ghastly title, says – Law on regulation of relations between the Republic of Serbia and borrowers or guarantees for commitments made under the loans of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. In fact, only the name and the title of that law itself shows what the goal is and what this law should settle. He should, in fact, arrange these relations between the Republic of Serbia, on the one hand, and borrowers, or guarantors, on the other hand, but... What is "but" is contained in Article 5, says -- based on the territory of the Republic of Serbia, when the territory of Kosovo and Metohija is excluded. It is very interesting that this government in several laws and on several occasions (we DSS MPs pointed to that), which in economic terms, which in a political sense simply forgets that Kosovo and Metohija are part of this territory, this country, and that it is in the Constitution; I call on the government members to read it again. Then, what is also symptomatic, he says - the law prescribes the conditions under which banks are released from obligations to the Republic of Serbia. Among these conditions that they state is, let's say, that these banks had some relationship with the National Bank, that is, the relationship between intermediation, the transfer of currency to dinars, etc. One of the conditions that they state here are concrete projects carried out in Serbia's territory. Of course, it is quite clear that one part of these loans went to the settlement of public undertakings' obligations on the basis of previously approved and used loans or parts of loans, but also that one good part of these loans went right to agriculture, which was declared then and then, as today, one of the strategic activities. At that time, by means of farming cooperatives, of which 99% today are in bankruptcy, thus contributing to the accelerated, stimulating development of agriculture. So agriculture is then marked as one of the country's dominant strategic definitions on its way to Europe. Now I've got to do a depression and that's what started with my story, which is why I adapted my subject to Mr. Milosavljevic being here. He was a minister of agriculture in one of the past, and he'll know what I'm talking about, and today the minister of trade is again the subject I want to inform him about. I will start with a statement by Minister Dragina, who says it is precisely that he cannot affect the prices of his greatest frustration. I want to show that Minister Dragin should have a lot more frustration than those he listed in his statement. I want to start with the fact that, according to the law, an action has begun since 2005 to mark the livestock fund in Serbia. This time I'm going to talk about that part about cattle, so, part of livestock. This, of course, took place according to European standards and the moment when one complete list was made and complete documentation of what we have from the throat of cattle in our country, each of these animals received an earmark, entered into one database. However, this is about a very old computer program, which is very bad and expensive, but it doesn't matter. Anyway, we have some kind of record. After that, every newborn animal, every newborn calf received such an earmark, which guaranteed that the condition of that animal would be monitored, preventive checks, all diseases, all recorded, so that Serbian citizens could eat quality meat and that this meat could be carried out on the EU market, because we are talking about having a very high quota, which we cannot meet, baby bifa. How is this work done in the Republic of Serbia today? It's not working at all. Eight months is the time for tendering; when these tenders finally dissipate, they fail, as usual. The last one to fail in those eight months failed last week at the end of October, and in those eight months, every newborn animal was not marked. Of course, I don't need to talk about what it means for animal trafficking, because in traffic we have animals that haven't been followed, we don't know their health status. These animals come to the market and to the Serbian citizens' table. We don't know the correctness of such meat. On the other hand, in this business, gray economy is booming again, gray traffic; the only ones that work in this business are buyers. On the one hand, the state loses, and on the other hand, peasants lose. We don't need to talk about veterinary services, because there's no veterinary services in this whole job. The question is: who guarantees Serbian citizens what they eat? Let's start by prescribing (and you as Minister of Agriculture, and today the Minister of Agriculture) that we will send most of the meat production to the EU. When the European Commission of Veterans comes to our country, it will indeed be very unpleasantly surprised by the fact that we have not even marked our cattle stock, and on the other hand, we have no idea about their health, nor can we guarantee that these animals are healthy. Of course, Serbia is this, people came up with it, so 400,000, watch out, 400,000 virtual ear tags entered the database, which is, of course, virtual; it would be real if these numbers were real animals and real stamps that were placed in the eardrums of those animals. It's that famous picanteria, but what do we do? Mr Markicevic mentioned what makes Serbia afraid of the epidemic and panic at the moment. I also have to mention that I'm telling you quite honestly and openly that swine flu is actually a modification of animal disease. Let me tell you that the modification of animal disease and bird flu is. The data I've received is that veterinary associations are increasingly speaking... As funny as this is to you, please listen because it's not funny, I think it's going to be very dangerous and that you as a representative of the government should know this information. I'm going to get to what this has to do with this subject and it would be polite to... (President: I ask the participants of the session and the minister to refrain from throwing. I ask the People's Parliament to come closer to the subject of the agenda. Thank you. ) I'm going to approach this subject, ma'am, I just want to tell you what the real situation is. Veterinary service almost doesn't exist in Serbia. This Krnjajic law, which massacred the service, has contributed greatly to this process. So, privatization of veterinary cells is unsuccessful. There is an indication that there is a pharmaceutical mafia in the Ministry of Agriculture of Veterinary Medicinal Products. What do I want to tell you? All this stuff I've said is a very serious problem. In each country, veterinary practice is actually a strategic axis of food production. We've been taking loans; for this job, we've been credited to the International Bank, to mark animals. You here in your paperwork promote that we have laws that we have passed; all honor, we are, food security, I will not read to you so you don't laugh anymore, so I suggest you read what you wrote as ministers. Not you specifically, but your colleagues. Look at what you wrote, I think you could stand behind it. When we talk about this law, and you say you would like to get concrete information from MPs about whether or not we are going to vote for this law, on behalf of the Democratic Party of Serbia, I will tell you that you will have to wait and you will be informed in the day of the vote that we will vote. You're here saying that financial means for implementing this law aren't necessary at all. It's totally funny to say something like that, because I don't know who should be paying these funds you write off to banks. Do we have any other funds besides the budget? We don't. The only one who fills the budget is the citizens of Serbia. So, as financial resources are needed -- perhaps not from your pocket, from the minister's pocket, but from the Serbian citizens' pocket, they certainly are needed. What's scariest in this story is this condition of the International Bank, the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund, which for every loan and every loan they give us and how they condition us. At this moment, this conditioning is moving in the area of education, health and pension reforms. It just doesn't need to be further commented, there'll be opportunities for that. What is very important, and it is about this law, is actually one need for all these things to be open to the public, because the public needs to know where the funds are going and how they are used. On the other hand, as you comment on whether these are the issues to be dealt with by this law, I comment on whether you are the competent minister who is to speak to us tonight. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-03-0.u29502	The word was requested by MP Miroslav Marinkovic. People's MP, you don't have the right to a replica. National MP Jorvanka Tabakovic has a word, followed by MP Vladan Jeremic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-03-0.u29503	I'll keep talking about the law, just so we know why we're here tonight. Mr. Minister, you've been nice enough to challenge the MPs whether they plead or not. Since I didn't get the grade question, I'll answer your question. You don't even have to answer me, it's really not part of the refreshing of this work. You don't have to answer me, but the government would have to answer us in what way it intends to regulate its obligations to the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for Loans taken over by guarantee banks from that part of Serbia outside of the AP Kosovo and Metohija and transferred their debts to end-users from Kosovo and Metohija? I don't see this in the light of any other kind of problem, except for the regulation of the debt that Kosovo and Metohija have towards international financial institutions, and we treat it as part of our country. This exception I understand; if I am wrong, I really expect the Government to answer in writing whether this is, in fact, an attempt to prevent manipulation of the release from basic debt, regular and tight interest to be resold and misused in some way, by transferring it to a part of the territory that we do not control in terms of the collection of income, i.e. the entry of any kind of funds into the budget of the Republic of Serbia. What is the government going to do about this? As far as I know, we're still paying that debt. And we should continue to pay it, because that is a way to preserve our relationship with Kosovo and Metohija as part of our territory, a relationship to the state as a nation, which has its own borders that are internationally recognised. International law is that last defense wall and we must not let it be shot down. It is, indeed, a very serious and concrete question. I don't expect an answer from you, but it remains undefined here. For other parts of the application of this law, I was able to find accompanying documents, such as the return decision of the federal government at the time, in which part of Montenegro's loans will be paid to the National Bank, which was an agent, that fiscal intermediary that should regulate and pay those obligations, but I did not find how this part is treated. What I have in mind is that this morning the story of selective law enforcement was started. If something is our problem, indeed the most serious one, it is the selective application of the law, in the sense that we selectively apply the law and on those to which the laws apply, for example, tax exemptions, tax exemptions, which is why the budget suffers; then, the collection of tax revenues, and that is the selective application of the law – only 50% of the tax revenues enters Serbia's budget, which is the only authority that received, prior to the arrival of the IMF, a linear 16% increase in wages. No one denied it. Mrs. Minister has even admitted that this is part of the law that we allowed the tax administration to do better by providing them with better material conditions for work, allowing them to raise their salaries. The selective application of the law to someone does not apply, but what bothers me about this loan is the selective application of the Budgetary System Act, which I see as the "constitution number two" for a serious state, as I count on building together, regardless of who the opposition is and who the position is. No one can say – this Budgetary System Act will be respected in Section 2 and in the Government's rights to prescribe the obligation to pay all taxpayers, but part of the Budgetary System Act where the Government is obliged to deliver an act under this Budgetary System Act is not respected. Article 48 says -- the financial effects of laws and other regulations must be delivered by the ministry to the government, to see how some legislation affects the budget. If it is fiscal regulations, some new tax rules must be said – the new application of the law and the release of the budget will enter so much money, but due to the release of some amount of funds, which can never be equal or, as the minister admitted the other day, are even a bigger tax exemption than the tax that was based on the budget... That there is respect for this Article 48. The law, it couldn't have happened... Because we also have these technologies, a networked government, trained ministers, people who have been educated, not all of them, but one good part of them abroad, abroad, in the country, in private, accredited, at the state colleges, and they would have to be able to carry out an evaluation of financial effects based on existing data. Deviations are possible. Emergency circumstances are forgiving and no one would resent it, but we get laws that have descriptive written compositions of bad students. We get a contract, i.e. a law on regulation of the relations between the Republic of Serbia and borrowers and guarantees for commitments made under the loans of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, and writes a sentence -- no financial means are needed to implement this law. Is this Budgetary System Act applied or applied in part, I will say - selectively? This is not good, and it would have to be applied by applying the provisions of the laws which define a precise assessment of what is possible from the gross domestic product to pay interest on such loans. This loan was signed in 2001 with a financial interest weight of $962,000,000. I don't, I don't see in addition to what the law requires, how much gross domestic product burdens this interest. On the other hand, the gross domestic product, jargonically said, is professionally jargonic, "bloated" by being given in current prices rather than in constant prices. We really need to burden the citizens with what's called your justification for the methodologies. When we show all produced quantities of goods and services in constant prices, in some fixed sizes, we could say that from 2000 to today gross domestic product has increased 53%. By the same criteria, our debt has increased from $10.3 billion in 2000 to $30 billion at the end of this year. It's tripled, and in euros it's doubled. If all goods, all services, products, new value is displayed in current prices when you have inflation, one that is recognised, of 9.4% in this year, you have shown an unrealisticly increased social product, so this ratio of how much of this total domestic wealth you are now using to pay interest seems a little drowsy. Would it look like you did one analysis? Here, you are the associates of Mrs Dragutinović and you should know what Article 73 says – debt and guarantee limitation, so you would have to give us, in the process of determining, under point 2 of the annual interest payment in the name of the debt in the gross domestic product. This would be – what we have so far adopted debt agreements withdrawing funds, and what we have only ratified in this home, what we have just signed, what we will be able to do, in accordance with the signed projects or the ability of our administration to withdraw these credit lines, indeed have in the budget for this year as withdrawn funds, which are already being committed or not going to. For example, in the final account of 2007, I found the information and informed the public: we had a million euros in paid tight interest for undrawn and approved funds. In 2008, that amount was reduced, but I'm not ready to believe that information because it's your report without the audit of the authorised State Auditing Institution, which I believe will be able to analyse, I won't say and find hidden flaws or deliberately formulated data. That I have the right to doubt not only gives me the reason that accounting reports are very creatively interpreted, which international accounting standards are very creatively applied, but also that we came into a situation where in November 2009, we don't even know what the republican administration is, how many people are employed, how many worked in 2000, whether it was just 7,000, whether 5,000 were other organisations and bodies; whether in 2004, after the disintegration of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, it grew to 27,000, as I found in the State Administration Reform Strategy. If all of us in this home have been presented with a draft budget, which for 2007 provided us with information that there are 22,528 employees in the Republic administration, so if there were 27,000 in 2004, and this is on the Government's website through the Strategy, I guess someone would have to explain that difference. It's not nice to be told that this law on determining the maximum number of employees is going to make a register of employees. Don't tell us - you'll get a piece of a whole. It is a significant piece, but it does not make sense without a whole, and the whole is a register of bodies and organisations, agencies, regulatory bodies, supervisory authorities set up by the government, which it has given operating resources, which is required to oversee, through the appointment of members of boards of directors, councils, who are obliged to adopt and approve financial plans, which cannot systematise how tariffs are put on their minds and approved by the government. So if someone talks about the monopoly and says – oil is worth so much and so much, or the producers and the cartel price have set us up, 105 dinars are a lot, we're going to make an application to the Competition Protection Commission to examine whether there's been an abuse of the monopoly position. When the Government allows a single body that is completely irregular, derived from the revenues that the state oversees, for example, the Civil Aviation Directorate, who has set up some huge compensation for aircraft training or noise compensation, to whom to contact users to assess whether this service really needs to be paid; does this service need to be assessed, by the Government, to cover the costs of the business of that body, how many employees and what salaries; should the salaries in those bodies be 350,000 net, in addition to all other privileges they have? I'm not speaking in my mind, I'm talking about 2008 amounts, delivered on one of the parliamentary issues that I've asked. And we're talking about whether the republican administration should have 28,400 or 28,000 people and whether Mr Ljajic really has eight, so he increased by one number, in his department dealing with the protection of the rights of disabled persons, and in a document that the government delivers to me as an MP for three years, the number has not changed and is 565 and three appointed persons, meaning 568. What can I believe? Who's in control? Do these people need to charge so much that they build, pay their wages and live so arrogantly that it creates and strengthens the sense of injustice among the rest of us? Or maybe from those revenues, for example, that flyover control, one part should go into the payoff of what is apparently used in the 1990s, but what is poorly refinanced by translating and converting from dollar to currency, where it didn't even bother to cut those interest rates? So when I say that there is no application of the Budgetary System Act, I'm talking about concrete legal solutions, e.g. in Article 75, where the finance minister is in charge, in the part of the law which prescribes an accounting report and control of budgetary users, but not only of indirect, direct, bodies, courts, funds, but also of certain authorities of the state administration, this is the position of Article 2, where you would have to, as Government, have insight and control over what is being collected from citizens in this country, because there are no other sources. Whether citizens will pay it through tax or through some tariff that one authority has prescribed, it's all a state responsibility and all these are public funds. I will assure you that these are public funds, because when you take this law and look at what is considered public funds, you will see that it is, in fact, neither who pays, nor where pays, nor any amount, but the obligation to pay. So, if a citizen is obliged to pay taxes through the purchase of a product, he is also obliged, although the road is indirect, and when the government, or the state, is in agreement with the tariff, for example, the central register (where the director of Vida Seljec is), states that he must take a report that allows him as a citizen to exercise some right, and he cannot exercise that right until he goes to the Central Register and asks for his trust. The fact that Mrs. Vida Seljec is one of those top managers who are not on the market, using a trusted job that the state gave them, is worth the wages that amounted to up to 400,000 dinars. What is most frightening, when the government prescribed an obligation to comply with the average salary and downgrade, many of these authorities and organisations have completely disobeyed the government's recommendation. The way they respond to a letter sent by the Ministry of Finance, to prepare an answer to one parliamentary question, believe me, from several users of state privileges, the state monopoly and that adolescence to set up bodies and organisations, is simply offensive because they say – what you want from us, we are an independent regulatory body, founded even under a special law. Regulatory bodies, such as RATEL, Broadcasting Agency or Energy Agency, have been established by the government. As the founder, the government has the right to oversee them, through the board of directors, through financial reports and through consent to tariffs they charge. Why doesn't the government use all the levers of power it has? Because she's fully thought out and deliberately selectively applying the laws she's passed herself. They repeat a thousand times, no matter how much, that selective application, do you know what it means? That power isn't in the organs and institutions, or it's a little bit and not enough. Where there is no institutional power to enforce the law and carry out a control that is legally prescribed policy takes over power, in the name of fully defined individual interests, which are well realised by us through the division of coalition governments, interpartial and intrapartial interests. It is no secret that many party members, I congratulate them on that, are not at all controversial, part of their incomes made in a state body are being paid in the case of a political party. We are all here in some party because we are bound by an idea, but it is not right that such "important and important" parties and their registers have the opportunity to receive 400,000 salaries, so that they can live well with 200,000 and give their party 200,000. Let everyone give as much as he wants and whoever he wants from his salary, who must be suited to the power of the economy and the power of the taxpayers. That's what we have to take care of, and we, and you, everyone who lives in this country and wants to live in it, doesn't even have to deal with politics. And you professionals, who work as co-workers of the finance minister, would have to, as men of the profession, make it impossible for politicians, ministers to promise the colourful lies and to put your profession in the service of their unreal promises. No, economists, it's a job of profession, they have to be responsible and without political... I try, I really try, and I don't find it hard to see this as an economist and a man who lives in Serbia, who wants to leave his children the opportunity to work and earn without this burden tomorrow, but the party book does not hire them, that the party book is no one's diploma, protection from mistakes, protection from illegal behavior and shortcuts in progress. That's what we all have to fight for. It doesn't matter if it's the kind of crisis we're in. Those of us who want to have a professional administration, who think that the change of the political party should not mean the end of the world or the beginning of the new world, but the continuation of what is called work in the general interest of all of us, we must fight that each of these laws does not have a predominantly political weight, that it is not motivated by the interest of the party currently in power; all those who define or do not apply these laws must bear in mind that tomorrow they will be the first victim if someone wants that vengeful chain – who is guilty, who fired mine, now I will take care of his; they have not taken care of the debt, now neither will I, but I only care about my election cycle and my chair. We have to break up with that practice every day. Making good laws is like learning, permanent work. Working on quality management, which is a necessary element for us to pass good laws, because you are primarily proposings, is also a continuous and daily job for all of us, if we are responsibly experiencing this policy. I really feel it that way, and I don't need to explain to you how serious we are to these laws, I think you can see it. But I have no intention of showing your mistake for any moment, but of making mistakes, which have been made for a thousand and one reason, not as a society. In that sense you understand every remark I make in relation to the poor quality of the law. No matter how boring it may seem to someone, I consider it a persistent repetition and the need for us to get these laws as fitting to a congregation that does its job and, besides, as we have prescribed in this law, so that we can define ourselves. Then I would have been very easy, Minister, if you had asked me if I would vote or not, I could have answered you that we expect good effects from this law, you have done your best and I will never say it – it is the IMF, or the World Bank or the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development... (President: National MPs, the time at your disposal has been used. Just one more sentence. The World Bank statute says - development, employment and financial markets, not coercion and other people's interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-03-0.u29504	The People's MP Vladan Jeremic has the word, followed by MP Milan Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-03-0.u29505	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you are aware that according to the established state dynamics, the debt is regularly served by all creditors, international financial institutions, the Paris and the London Club, bilateral and other creditors. By the end of this year, according to the total foreign debt, there is little more than two and a half billion euros left to be paid off by the main and around 450,000 euros in interest. It is interesting that the public sector will single out a total of 197.000,000 euros this year at the expense of external debt service. This is just an overture for the finding that I am going to make, and it is related to the proposal for a law on regulation of relations between the Republic of Serbia and borrowers or guarantees for commitments made by the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which, truth be told, is short, but if a little more concrete and deeper analysis is presented, I can say freely, a failure of the economic model that has functioned in Serbia in the last ten years, which is primarily seen through a major liquidity crisis in which the over-indebted Serbian economy is choked. That's more than obvious. There are many reasons that have preceded this condition. But what the public needs to point out is, above all, that the National Bank of Serbia, with the blessing of all the governments so far, has for years practically indirectly subsidized the loans of citizens and businesses by maintaining some unreal course of dinar; it has artificially reduced the level of foreign loans and is a real vision of the sustainability of such an economic model. Banks, which may be the biggest problem, which I will talk about later, are allowed to charge the biggest interest and fees in Europe, and businesses and citizens are also fast-tracked, with huge currency risks. What's the consequence of all this? It's the fact that economic problems have accumulated. Instead of solving, they are practically left to the future, and when the future arrived, disguised as a global financial crisis, it was clear that the re-indebted Serbian economy, which was dominantly facing only the domestic market and imports, could only function under the conditions of some kind of pyramid scheme, i.e. with a steady and continuous inflow of foreign credit and debt growth. However, even if he wanted to, it is clear that the state can no longer function in this way, or that it cannot find enough funds to continue such a policy, because each takes a euro of credit that the state does not use productively, primarily for infrastructure, is only an additional weight for this economic future, which apparently came before many expected. Indebted companies that have accumulated problems, it's clear they have to deal with them exclusively with creditor banks, because in some ways it's a common pain. This country has to make it clear. So, businesses and banks must immediately enter the debt reprogramming and financial consolidation process, because these banking margins are so high that banks have enough space to facilitate the burden of the economy and citizens through a possible reduction of interest and debt reprogramme, and thus help themselves. The main complaint that the SRS Parliamentary Group has been sending to representatives of the Government of the Republic of Serbia for a longer time is the unspoken acceptance of absolutely everything that came from the World Bank, the IMF and, of course, the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. I repeat, all that is currently happening is the result of one such, obviously unsustainable and unacceptable, economic model in Serbia. It is evident that some companies will disappear; some will change, or have already changed, owners and continue to work the way the market in Serbia, as it is, dictates. Some company owners have been selling companies, businesses and companies in the past for depravity, just as they often bought them. That, in some sense, seems to be the only law of the market economy here in Serbia and how to change the business model. Also, one of our grudges certainly refers to the fact that the government made a huge mistake by announcing subsidies, i.e. by delaying the process of a necessary financial consolidation in the state. So these interventions in the domain, first of all, interest rates, are not only the task of fiscal policy, but monetary policies, and are always in situations like this, therefore, in crisis, aimed at bringing down some general level of interest rates. About a month, a month and a half ago, we witnessed a pompous announcement related to the subsidies of residential loans and loans for purchase, especially the "fiyat punta", which was the largest, and the weakest election asset of the ruling coalition was shown. So when the state pays part of the interest to selected companies, it is clear that it only allows banks to continue with the policy they are already running, which is a policy that is unsustainably high interest rates. In that part, some companies pay lower interest, and for most, they remain astronomical. The same mistake, therefore, also repeats the state with the subsidies already mentioned for housing loans or this loan subsidy for the purchase of the "fiat punta". Because if the logic of the state is correct... It is good that you, Mr. Milosavljevic, as Minister of Trade, might be able to answer the question why the state would not subsidize everything, i.e. clothing, shoes, food, electricity or heating, if this logic has some basis. So, the thinking of the SRS is that, above all, in Serbia, it is necessary to create an economic environment in which, when we talk about the banking system, banks themselves recognise the interest of turning the economy, which is why, in essence, they exist. The first thing that should certainly be done is more significant downing of state interest rates, means the reference interest rates of the National Bank of Serbia on these cash registers and interest rates on the vault records. The reference interest rate does not affect inflation, and the vault interest rate draws money from the budget financing market and only delays the necessary adjustment of public spending. Also, we believe that this decision, however strict the regulation of domestic loans, could be dangerous... suggests that most Serbian companies are practically more in charge abroad today than with domestic banks. We believe that by taking this kind of business bank move, they would be significantly more motivated to finance, say, public works, if the state were to be guaranteed precisely for loans that would be granted on purpose. So it's a simple formula, which would certainly contribute to this kind of economic model, which is obviously unsustainable, bringing some kind of improvement to the state, or to the citizens. Because the Serbian economy is obviously a special case and this chronic indifference of the Serbian economy, the overall developments in the banking sector and what we are talking about today is not only the result of the global economic crisis, as representatives of the ruling coalition like to explain it in public, but, above all, the SRS is the result of the financial indiscipline that exists in the state, but also the economic structures, dominated by monopolies and cartels. So, as far as the SRS is concerned, we have pointed out several times so far that the beginning of all the problems was the acceptance of the recently mentioned financial organisations, and related to restructuring or, rather, the destruction of the banking system that existed with us, so that practically in Serbia we no longer have the banking sector, except for the central bank and possibly several banks. So it's all sold out and put into the hands of foreign capital. There are also some official data that out of 34 banks in the hands of foreign and private capital there are 26 banks, with even 84% of the financial potential, which holds more than 50% of the banking assets. For example, in other countries, which hold to their financial independence, 20% of foreign-owned banks are allowed, and so is the case in you dear EU countries. It is clear that the state that allowed this and, in addition, "opened" a fully national economy for imports, which simply exploded and led to a huge external trade deficit, of course became extremely sensitive and vulnerable to all these shocks, i.e. events on the world market, and thus to the global financial crisis, although at first we were in doubt whether the global financial crisis would bring us something better or not. A particular problem is already mentioned the levels of interest margins, but certainly the level of active interest, which no economy can withstand, especially in the multi-annual crisis, without its own capital, which is currently in Serbian economy, unfortunately. All this has been a journey to enormous duty and, clearly, an increasing interest burden on the economy and the population. All of this has caused us to be in the situation we are in today, and to allow these banks, let's say, in the past year to make a profit of 32 billion dinars, while the economy is loosing in indiquities, losses and a constant decline in production. When it comes to this bill, my colleague Mirovic is in his studio, analytical approach to this issue, i.e. the subject was also highlighted by this Article 5, but it obviously doesn't take much to surprise us, considering that these very foreign banks that have employed a practically complete system in Serbia... One of them is certainly Austria's Raiffeisen Bank, which, some time ago, practically recognised Kosovo's unilaterally declared independence, because in the prospectuses of this bank operating in Serbia, independent Kosovo is treated equally with other countries in Europe. So I think we'll agree that this kind of economic model doesn't lead to anything good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-03-0.u29506	The word has a National MP Milan Dimitrijevic. The time available to the DSS Parliamentary Group is 14 minutes and 30 seconds. Afterwards, MP Dragan Stevanovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-03-0.u29507	Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at least three things in this bill stand out as key topics. One is certainly what is the proverb in our people – that debt is a bad companion, for debt should be paid back. It should be returned, and he seems more difficult when taken thoughtlessly, when spent unintendedly, and paid by citizens of the Republic of Serbia. So it's a clear thing. What is unclear, as it says in the light of this law, is that a smart head made a decision on January 8th to make a conversion, since the loan was taken in dollars, to make a conversion into euro, at the time when the relationship was minor 1:1. Did that smart head know any projections about what a dollar-to-euro relationship would be, or was it something else? Another vague thing about the reason for this law concerns those banks that are in bankruptcy. I ask the question, why are these banks bankrupt, who is the creator of this policy that these banks are bankrupt? Why don't we have our banks to lend our industry and our production? Who's the smart head of such a policymaker? There's a story that's about today, to see why it's a bad friend and how when it's not planned, when there's no strategic governance, it comes to a very difficult situation, in which irresponsible individuals and governments bring this country and this people. The parliamentary majority voted in July for a large loan relating to the health loan; it is four clinical hospital centres: in Belgrade, Nis, Kragujevac and Novi Sad, which is 400,000 euros. I am sorry that Ms. Diana Dragutinovic is not here to answer any questions, and perhaps you, Mr. Milosavljevic, will know. Do we know what public spending is in health care? Do you know why I'm asking you that? It's precisely because we've raised a 400,000-dollar loan and we need to know why we're going to pay it back, and we don't know what the health spending is. The director of the Republic Health Insurance Office says it's 6% of the gross social product. The health minister says it's 8.2% of gross social product. The World Bank says it's 10.5, maybe 11%. The difference between 6% and 11% is 5% of GDP; 1% of GDP is 300,000 euros. When you multiply that by simple mathematics, you don't need big schools, it's between 1,200,000 and 1,500,000 euros. When you don't know how much spending is in health care, then you get into these arrangements, and the government asked for it, and that's this document, which you, Mr. Minister, you know, you've seen, you've seen what public spending is related to health, because the World Bank predicts that we reduce our capacities, says that our health care is too wide-based... Is that the fact of this document? Then why are we taking credit? Who's wrong about that now? The World Bank or us? Why can't we get that information about how real spending is in our health care? Example two: we take credit for the implementation and final implementation of the information system (it is the same decision by the assembly majority), worth 10 and a half million euros. It's already the fourth or fifth loan we're taking. Where's our information system? It doesn't exist. Who's got to pay that money back? Citizens of the Republic of Serbia. That's why he's a long, bad friend. That is why this irresponsibility and indemnity of the government will put the state in a position to take that money from the people, to put its hands in the pockets of the citizens so that those debts you have made in a very cheap, unserious and irresponsible manner can be returned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-03-0.u29508	Thank you. The word is made by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-03-0.u29509	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I'd like to begin with one remark. A moment ago, you asked a local MP a question without asking a word, of course, while the apostle discussed it – what does this have to do with the subject. You see, I can ask you what you have to do with this law, what did you have to do with the law of distinction? What does Mladjan Dinkic have to do with laws that were on the agenda yesterday in a united debate, up to four hours, because these same ministers did not find fit to come to the Assembly this afternoon? In the debate this morning, we dealt with these laws. What does Mr. Mladjan Dinkic have to do with anything? The opposition, so let me be correct and say - the Parliament accepts the government's will to respect the form, not the essence, so you could personally follow that principle and give it the right for the MPs to do what they see and say. Of course, I think the chairman at that point was obliged to react. It's not. I gave myself the right to distract you, in the light of one remark. As far as this law is concerned, you have ended your story in your opening statement, saying that someone is getting rid of debts and that this will help create, I will paraphrasise you, a better business environment, and it will be helpful for businesses and in general that business environment in Serbia. First, this debt, or law, does not refer to liberation. It's about taking over the debt. When the debt is taken, that debt doesn't disappear, it doesn't evaporate. The debt remains, only someone took it upon himself, paid it off or still pays it off, it doesn't matter, but the burden of that debt does feel on his skin. In this case, these are the taxpayers of this state, which is the budget, which really has problems that everyone in Serbia is talking about today, but we are not talking about in this parliament that we are bringing, which we are adopting and which we can or can have the opportunity to influence it. That's one thing. Second thing, you said this would make business easier or better, I'm paraphrasing you, of course. I ask the question how much will this law really be in the function of a positive business climate, of increasing liquidity, of improving the business environment? That's what we're going to discuss, hopefully, through this discussion of mine. The first aspect of which the SRS insists is – why did you provide in this law that it does not apply to legal persons from Kosovo and Metohija? What did you manage to do? Were you able to pass it on to the AP Vojvodina or both provinces, or were you not allowed to put AP Kosovo and Metohija here? I'm not talking about the actual state of Kosovo and Metohija. Kosovo and Metohija are occupied; it is occupied by Eulex, international organisations, contrary to the will of this assembly, contrary to the will, I would say, the majority of the people in this country. Now the actual state is what it is. I ask you, do you have the right to waive obligations relating to legal persons from Kosovo and Metohija, and to indirectly deny yourself the right to have property in Kosovo and Metohija tomorrow? Your colleague, Mladjan Dinkic, boasted before a certain period of time that this country was freed by 500,000 - 600,000 000 debt related to Kosovo and Metohija. Who'd he do a favor for? This country? A policy which you essentially only declare, that Kosovo and Metohija will stay or that you want to remain in the composition of the Republic of Serbia? He has not done anyone else a favor to those who want and do everything to institutionally and in any other way create the state of Kosovo on 15% of the territory of the Republic of Serbia. It's one aspect that's interesting when it comes to this law. It's not the first time you've met through the normatives adopted by this assembly, and your government is proposing. It slowly becomes a practice, from the Law on Regional Development, some other laws, and now this law, however short and however short it is, judging by the presence of MPs who make up the majority, for the same is completely irrelevant. Another thing I want to ask you – how much do you really believe this law will affect the business environment in Serbia? Will this drastically change the liquidity in Serbia? Are these topics that will make Serbia an interesting business environment? Will it facilitate the functioning of the economy, in whole or in part? These days, the public is buzzing, negotiating with the IMF. We said that a few days ago, you had an option to choose – you will talk from the aspect of public income or public expenditure. You opted for the other side, the cost side of the budget, and you torture the torment. On the side, when you're talking about the flat side, it's much easier and easier to talk about than the revenue side if you're real and objective. When you talk about the revenue side of the budget, providing a stable income party, it requires responsibility, mature approach, political knowledge. The cost side of the budget doesn't need much sense. It takes a lot of political acuity, political egoism. If you look at it through the laws we talked about this morning and yesterday morning, it doesn't take much wisdom, selectivity, which was present in the process of hiring too many workers. By the same principles, you will now fire 8,000, 9,000, 10,000 people. That doesn't take a lot of sense. The income side needs, I repeat, responsibility. You can't just take the revenue side of the budget to the VAT story, whether we're going to increase or not to increase VAT, and -- we're going to stabilise, there's going to be bigger revenues, we're going to cut the deficit. You're a man in this profession, you know very well how to talk about VAT, with VAT rates, including deadlines. We live today in a country where the economy credits the budget. Why is that? There are no words about it in this congregation or in the public. Because VAT is not charged for realisation, but for invoices. You're credited by your economy. How do you repay her? By talking about taking on the obligations that are defined in this law. What is it, Mr. Minister, with the gray economy? How many states did she make her business in the gray economy translate into legal flows? How would a possible VAT increase affect the grey economy, i.e. the increase and impact of new businesses on the gray economy? You know it yourself, and that's why you're avoiding the story of it all. The future side of the budget is something serious, something that really needs to ensure a normal business environment, raising administrative capacity in this country, that definitely this country from the bottom of the scale of all the renowned, according to you, economic, financial institutions is moving forward. But you're not capable, you don't have the capacity to do that. You are expected to be reformed by the education system (we are talking about a law that, you see, how it interests you), the health system; you can think of troubles and problems when the pension system comes. How are you going to get past that ballast and that problem? What's the monthly deficit in the pension fund? No one's talking about it. You're not talking. The deficit has been caused by unreasonable consent to the unreasonable demands of your coalition partners. You don't have the courage to say that to the public, or to the MPs and here, through some completely irrelevant, I'm not going to say irrelevant, but less important law than what I'm talking about, you're saying that you're going to create a positive business environment, that you're going to make it easier for our country. I'll certainly use your presence here and bring it into connection with the quality of life, which you just said something about. I come from the municipality of Surdulic, where the Serbian Radical Party has initiated proceedings against a public enterprise. This procedure shall be conducted through the republican, or national authorities for a year. Finally, on September 1st of this year, your ministry, as a second-degree body in the process, brought a solution and ordered a public company to return public service prices to 30%, which has been charging illegal citizens of the Surdulic municipality for nine months. Do you know how they react to that? As if, I don't know, some beekeepers' or pigeons' association had sent them a solution. I ask and insist that you use all the mechanisms available to you and your ministry, to reason with the unreasonable and to help improve the quality of life of the citizens in one municipality, which is threatened by someone's boast, inability and incompetence.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-03-0.u29510	Thank you. The word has a Mr. Minister. Here you go, Mr. Milosavic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-03-0.u29511	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Stevanović, I accept your criticism. There is no co-worker from the Democratic Party of Serbia, but I apologize for having, without a word, asked the question of what that has to do with it, marking cattle in Serbia or unmarking, with this law. The chairman warned me neatly, so I took that as a warning. It's not my style, and I'm not going to act like it, although I can see, since I'm often here among you, that you're all throwing everyone away. Here, now I appeal to everyone who does so not to do so in this home. In particular, as far as Surdulica is concerned, what happened to us has been done and we will insist that the second-degree decision of the Ministry of Trade and Services on the return of prices to the level before the purchase is respected.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-03-0.u29512	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-03-0.u29513	Mr. Milosavlevich, consider yourself free of fear, free to earn; this is the Assembly, it must be led by controversy, it must be spoken. There must be life involved in this debate, so that the citizens can understand us as well as possible. We of the SRS have decided to be the last since they say I'm the oldest in these things, because since February 3, 1993, I've been sitting in this room. I wasn't the only one in 2001 and 2002. I was in the party back then, and I was in charge of almost all of your laws on validation and borrowing, so I'm pretty familiar with this matter. She's famous to me before 1990, because I was working in the economy then, and we were in debt – "We must 2", some loans, etc. At first, I'd like to inform the public that this is one accounting law. He will serve as the basis for sealing what has already been prescribed and for the job to be done. You didn't answer the question of who the end users were, but you said more philosophically that it was in favor of those who, before 1990, took a loan, something ended, and now, if they had any obligations, they would have gotten some burden and it couldn't have been done. I have to say that these obligations that end-users have are really unchargeable. Mr. Milosavlevich, why are they not chargeable? Now I'm going to say what's the contribution until 2000 is that they're not chargeable, which is the contribution after 2000. In this building, it seems to me, in 1995 or 1996, when the action was led by Mr. Nedjeljko Shipovac, there was also a law on the agenda to write down claims that existed to agriculture. Then it is said – sanctions, blockades, etc., it should be written off. That regulation has been passed. I have to say that at the time, we criticized it, first of all, to point to one basic principle, and that principle is, as a matter of fact, a "cukuritic tantas". Someone can't be in charge, and later, when it comes time to pay off, they all pay off. He can't. But at a time of socialism, that was possible. I have to commend whoever wrote the explanation of this bill, where he really cited those problems that existed before 1990 with foreign exchange operations. It wasn't exported like today. At that time, the national security kept it “under its own skin. ” The state has always had the need for foreign exchanges to pay off loans and to provide raw materials abroad, especially energy. Then every exporter of all those foreign exchanges could only use part of it if it needed to import some goods for its production. The rest was won in dinar equivalent. That's where the curative differences occur; that's the moss that's been broken every year to the National Bank, but that's what that system was. What's going on? It happened, and this is the situation with these first two members of the bill, that banks really appeared as a transmission, but not in terms of the banking system that exists today, but in 1990. The end-users were companies in the area of economy. Part of the exchange was used directly for buying and paying equipment from abroad, and part was used, in dinar equivalent, for other works. It's a fact and no one can slow it down. That was the economic environment. But what happened in 2001? To understand, Mr. Milosavljevic, what happened in 2001, I recommend the book of Tim Marshall "The Fifth October". Whenever I find myself in doubt to assess honesty, honesty, honesty, morality, etc. I use what a man who knows best what DOS is. I would recommend, Mrs Djukić-Dejanovic, and to you this book by Timo Marshall "The Fifth October". It describes all of your coalition partners - what function they had, which task, who collected them, who negotiated with the police, who attacked the National Bank, who took this, who took it. It's all written there. To know that everything is written and that everything is completely clear. I must draw attention to the fact that in 2001 it was a real euphoria due to the approach, where it was at that time... And the main creators of this economic policy were Miroljub Labus and Mladjan Dinkic, whether you like it or not; after a few years Jovan Rankovic had to flee from the finance ministry, the federal one, because he simply couldn't stand Mladjan Dinkic and Miroljub Labus anymore. There was a non-critical borrowing and, in general, a combination with a whole group that we can call the World Bank, the International Monetary Fund, the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, etc., it was a special arrangement where they designed Serbia, the SRJ, to enter into terrible debts towards international organisations. Why? Well, when you owe someone, then it's the one you owe the boss to and it's completely different to talk to, there's no negotiation, there's no conversation, there's no partner relationship, there's a master-servant relationship. Of course, we are meant for the role of the servant. Milosavljevic and his brothers accepted it at the time. I just remind you of the famous Minister Pitic -- he spoke 20 times in the Assembly, he spoke something like Mrkonjic a few days ago, only in euros, 50 million, 20 million, 30 million, 40 million, 50 euros, the euro, the euro, only in numbers he spoke. Otherwise, what he taught in college has nothing to do with numbers, but it doesn't matter. That's one policy. That's one policy. What happened in September 2001? Apparently, the state has taken the obligation to meet the obligations that the banks had on end-users. What happened at the end of 2001? There's been a kind of conversion. What happens now? Now there's a trace removal going on. Why? All these end-users today were probably privatized and in their balance sheets had to remain this adventure from the past. What happened? I'll take, for example, Acu Vlahovic or Đurić -- let's say, buy a few companies at a baffle price, break it up, get back what they gave, and earn a lot more; put in some rent, sell someone else, and now no one can live there anymore. What happened to the Vojvodina Bank? She turned her claim and – finished the job. Now the question is, how could you, with your uncleared balances, sell the Vojvodjanska Banka? How do you hit a Greek brother of the Greeks now? It's not working. So I'm telling you, this is accounting law. Why? To clear the balances. What's the use of this? It's no use. It will be in that sense that there is no longer any trace in the books. Is there any damage? There's no harm done today, that's what you have to say. The damage has already been done. How? Take over the state. Similar to "Sartida" – the state took over the debts, sold for 23,000,000. Who's gonna pay? They'll all pay off. Not Milosavljevic, not Dinkic, not Mirko Cvetkovic, who sold half the economy, but will pay when he comes, he says here by 2031, slowly. Will that payoff go well? It's a question. How's the question? Well, it depends on the behavior. This may have been at some point that bit of cheese in the mousefish, it was free or slightly cheaper, etc. We're addicts. From who? From a group that's funding from abroad. What did they finance? October 5th. Here, you see, I now have one offer for the Government of the Republic of Serbia – to resign and to pay us back the debt you had in the state when you came to power. All the more you take with you and share with your partners from abroad. Only under these conditions should these people be allowed to leave without going to jail. In all other options, all groups from October 5th to today must end up in prison. Now I'm going to tell you why - on October 5th you said that six and a half billion are at the border, only to drop Milosevic, coming across the border. It didn't happen. There's been an unsuspecting borrowing. Not to remind you of the succession, not to remind you of those clarifications and, may I remind you, Mr. Milosavljevic, since you are here a representative, who gave you the right to write here the words "out of the Autonomous province of Kosovo and Metohija"? All regulations of the Republic of Serbia apply throughout and across the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Don't tell me there's no users or any other stuff, or there's no banks, I don't care at all. It's law enforcement. The law must not share such a division of a single economic, economic and state space called the Republic of Serbia. You can't. I'm simply amazed at this Legislative Committee, how this could have come into congregation procedure. Why didn't you bring this back to work? Why do you care to say here – there is no law in the territory of Kosovo and Metohija? Is it possible that it wasn't because you made it possible for Thaci and the company to be members of the IMF? Although, I didn't see you yesterday at the opening of a monument to Bill Clinton. I didn't see it, I didn't see it. That's your partner, just so you know. Your partner is celebrated by Ceku and other companies who also boast in their books terrorism and the killing of Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija. Tell me one reason why you would expect Serbian Radical Party MPs to raise their hands for such a bill. I've only given you two or three reasons why no one in this room should raise a hand for a bill like this. Are we legalizing something that happened in the meantime? Is this how the tracks are hidden? Here, when added, it's about 160,000,000 euros. Let me ask you a question: the obligation involves the principal and plus interest, I think? How could you privatise these banks from Article 2? A bill of law, and you haven't solved this question before? With respect to Article 2, the banks are there as collateral damage, with today's views on the banking system, but they were no collateral damage at the time of borrowing. This is the period when there was only SDK; rarely when under the red line allowed payment. Whose hands is the banking system today? Mostly strangers. If they get angry with strangers, they withdraw their funds, do you know how paid traffic in Serbia would live? It wouldn't exist. That's why they're conditioned to do anything and everything. Imagine, Bozidar Djelic had to buy another newspaper, recognizable by critical writing. He's almost four, five. No, and these. Why? To keep control of both the government and the opposition. Over what? It's over the media. To bring out everything and everything. Ask any MPs, let them tell you what the benefit is if such a bill is passed. I'm telling you there's no use, no use. Too bad? The damage has already been done, not only in 2001, September or December, it is a special story as to the conversion, but by the fact that the substance has been lost and the obligation has changed to the state. The obligation has passed on to all taxpayers. You can't talk any further, see where that end-user is, what he's like. Whose hands is the end user now? When did this end-user get privatized? Who bought it? What price did he buy it for? It all falls into the water, you won't talk about it, because, apparently, it's not the subject of this bill. Yes, Mr. Milosavljevic, that's the subject of this bill. That's the theme. At this point in the agenda, you can see exactly what Tim Marshall announced in his book "The Fifth October". Here, you MPs from the Democratic Party, let's change -- you rule us with those debts that were on October 5th and you won't go to jail. Well, of course, it'll be all in the election, but I think the people will cover it up. Don't worry, since this has come all the way here, it's gone. See for yourself, there's some manipulation going on in every sentence to cover up something. To hide something, yes. It's hard to get from one system to another system. The crossing was also under the conditions of the blockade, etc., but what did you say, what did you promise? You never promised to put the state in charge of 30 billion euros, you never said that. Well, you never said you'd see so many civil servants. On October 5th, you accused Slobodan Milosevic of having over 100,000 police officers. A few months later, you said, "He's only 15, we need 10 under emergency." Who can trust you? Of course I don't trust you, and I never believed you. But I have a problem because you fool some citizen, so he trusts you. I'm saying this for the citizens, so they don't believe anything you say. What came true from what you said? What Tadic said: vote for me; in a month there is no "white Schengen". That's what he said in the first campaign for the president a few years ago. You've reached that point now. Jabba "schengen", no one wants that "schengen" anymore. Why? If you go with that, you should spend what money you have abroad. That's why they gave this "schengen", that's why they're thinking about that "schengen" -- to spend money on them, and to find those who like to travel at all costs and spend money there, to be: y-Yu, we opened up, Belgrade is the world. What are they doing from the economy? Where are your epochal results? What did Tadic say last year? He says -- three hundred, five hundred thousand -- that's what we're gonna hire. He will, but he'll fire a million people, so he'll hire those three hundred thousand and say he's fulfilled his promise. That's what you're ready for. You don't choose the means. You absolutely don't choose the means to remain in power. Read Tim Marshall's book "The Fifth October". You'll see how someone designed you and why he designed you for what jobs he designed you for. That's where you'll see your political destiny and your political mission. The sooner you read it, the more clear it will be that a small group of people at the top of these five, six parties are pulling you all by the nose, along with the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. It's all pulling by the nose. You're a machine that will vote everything. Go home, go to the neighborhood, to your places, and tell the citizens what is good for this man from this bill – which will remove traces, which the state will take over (although, it has already taken over) and what will be paid back. I'm not criticizing you as someone from the opposition, who cares about taking power at all costs, but I was on this side and on that side. That's when I said the same thing I'm saying right now. The state is a serious thing, not a toy for I-Yu. It's not. Take care when you're patted on the shoulders by the one who bombed us. He doesn't mean well to you or to us or to anyone here. That's the point. It's hard for you, you've come into the story; you've given the bank, now you'd give a thousand to get out of it, but you can't. Do you see, Mr. Milosavljevic, how those abroad negotiate? One cent doesn't forgive. They fight for everything. They fight for their own, though, when there's an international organisation there's someone else's, but for their position. That's how you negotiate. How do you negotiate? Euro-Atlantic integration. For seven years, you've been pulling the nose of a Serbian citizen with that flossula. In the meantime, people were poor. Poor people. It's all been scattered since the promise. The jeeps were given to those who did not even have driver's license; they became distinguished gentlemen – Mr. Chume, Mr. Legion. Here, and Ruzica Djindjic became a "legi", she won the Legion Order. Veran Matic became a "legia". He also won the Legion Order. You see, people boast that the foreigners who bombed us are rewarding them with an ordnance! For what? For what's done. What's good for Serbian citizens? Count a few things in nine years that are good. Go out, bow and begin, say – thanks to the democratic government etc. It's good on the agricultural plan that, on the agenda of the economy, on the energy plan, it's, on the plan of detaching it, in education this, in health care this. Tell me what's good. Find one thing to boast about. It's gone because you're doing exactly what's written in Tim Marshall's book "The Fifth October". Let me remind you, I use that in trials, you know? Since I have a hundred and a few disputes with the state, I, on every dispute, write a book: "Here you go, what does it say?" Written by a stranger. He knows you better than I do. He knows all that you did, who negotiated with whom, who was in Budapest, who was in Segedin, who crossed this border, where he hid, how much money he took, what was the task, how the police were purchased, etc. Do Serbian citizens understand one thing? Before Sreten Lukic was elected deputy minister, the government asked The Hague tribunal and the EU if he could, since he was an officer in the military, etc. They said yes. When the election time came they brought charges against him, so you staged the first demonstration for arresting a police officer in history. Do you know what they've prepared now, Mr. Milosavlevich? The War Crimes Special Court Act is being changed. Do you know why? Yeah, anyone who's been since '91. years of wearing a police or military uniform, or being mobile, may be the subject of the interest of this prosecutor's office, Vladimir Vukcevic. What's the criterion? If he doesn't like it. It's your policy. How do you think this policy can survive? I'm sure he can't survive. She can't survive because she's in conflict with the truth. She is in conflict with the elemental interests of this people. We have on the agenda of this session a few more laws that carry out its kind of legalization, removing traces of something that has been done. No one wants these tracks to exist anymore, they need to be removed, they need to be erased. But it's much better if it's done in a pompous way, with a big celebration that something epochal is done. Now the media will talk for two days about how the government of Mirko Cvetkovic has done a kind of write-off to end-users, and that's helping our economy. Do these end-users even exist? You said the number one bill. None of these people I talked to got that contribution. That's it. That's it in Serbia. This morning we heard about how coffee cooks and drivers would be fired, and remember, when the first time, or the second time that Bozidar Djelic was elected Deputy Prime Minister, his recycling adviser was the one "Mile Dwarf" with the B92, the actor, to pay him off for what he was helping the Democratic Party win. To remind you, Nikola Gruevski was an adviser to Bozidar Djelic in 2001. He is the Prime Minister of the Republic of Macedonia, who has recognised the border with Kosovo. Well, the people you sat with don't respect you! They don't respect you. They're not taking you seriously. Do not ask me or the citizens of Serbia to think seriously about you. This is "hold the water until the masters leave". Look what your concept is. Besides the book "The Fifth October" by Tim Marshall, there are other very beautiful books, very precise, with given facts, hour, minute, time. You can also use your friend Dragan Bujosevic's book. He gave a complete captainate of everything that happened before and after October 5th, he wrote a nice book. These are documentary testimonies of the time when you burned this building, took pictures, laundered money after you renovated and forced us to come back into this building, and you know yourself that no state that had the Assembly in this building survived, none, not one, not the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, not the SFRY, not the SRJ, not the state community. Well, you, in a symbolic sense, are destroying Serbia. The topic is how to save the Republic of Serbia from the Democratic Party, Boris Tadic, satellites and these media. Citizens of Vozdovac, you are likely to have the opportunity to read the special edition of "The Great Serbia" dedicated to Dragan Gilas, who also destroys Belgrade in a different way. I warmly recommend this number of "Great Serbia". We will send you home addresses of a large number of publications where we will describe to detail how Serbia's destruction is conducted in a democratic way, with respect, with cultural, good behavior, with the words we read, with how the staging should be on this side, on the other side... But what helps you? Serbia is getting smaller and smaller. There is growing and greater sadness in the souls of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I can't take you guys anymore, I can't. Neither those yellow packages, nor those blue packages, nor those employment, nor those great promises. They don't go through anymore. Underline the citizens of the line, it's all clear to them, but they just don't know when you're going to leave the government. You've become heavy both to God and to men. Here, with the rest of your time, I'll buy you a drink. Since that's a little bit of your head, you can choose, what time is left of my speech to hurry up – will you join the European Union, please to Russia.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-03-0.u29514	Mr. Minister, please, you have your word. Mr. Milosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-03-0.u29515	Thank you. I suggest, Mr. Krasic, that we return to reality after this theatre performance. Theatrical, but not based on anything. You asked yourself a question about the subject, and you gave yourself an answer. You asked the question why you and the MPs of the SRS should vote for such a bill. At the same time, you gave your answer when you said you worked in the economy. That's why you have to vote, because companies are water companies, water funds, agricultural cooperatives, individual owners who will be released from these obligations. You're right when you say it's a technical operation, only because in the 1990s and that famous hyperinflation in 1993 devalued all the dinar amounts in the company balances, and that's all you said. There are concrete and final users of this, and as someone who worked in the economy, you still have to respect them.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-03-0.u29516	First of all, the violation of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-03-0.u29517	Dear Madam President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, first of all, the citizens of Serbia, have just heard a terrible sentence – that Mrs. Ruzica Djindjic has become a Legion. Even someone dared to level this dignitary woman with one criminal, who was convicted of the greatest crimes, because Mrs. Ruzica Djindjic received the highest French medal, the Legion of Honor. It is an order established by Napoleon Bonaparte on 19 May 1802, when there was no Serbian Radical Party, when there was no NATO Pact. The Order of the Legion of Honor adorns the largest war flags of Serbian winning regiments – the 10th Infantry Regiment, the 12th Infantry regiment, which broke through the Thessaloniki Front, have the Order of the Legion of Honor. Stepa Stepanovic, Zivojin Misic, Budimir Davidovic, were heroes of World War I who, among other Serbian soldiers, placed the Legion of Honor on their chests. When I first asked my grandfather where France is, he unbuttoned his breasts and told me – there, in the heart of every Serbian Thessaloniki is France. And then, because of the politics of Zoran Krasic, France came to Serbia's sky to pour bombs here. I understand, Mr Krasic, that you do not read the collected works of Nikola Velimirovic and the Bible before you go to sleep, but you read Tim Marshall's book, because with him you changed the Patriarchy and the glory of Serbian regiments for a 90-square apartment, which reads "Kurir" and for Bumbilend and other nonsense. Mr. Krasic, don't insult Mrs. Ruzica Djindjic. It's a shame you said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-03-0.u29518	Mr. Zoran Krasic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-03-0.u29519	Of course, I'm replicating Mr. Milosavljevic. The ideologist of the Democratic Party is impossible to replicate. Mr. Milosavljevic, in 1993, to teach you a little bit, some others were in power, was not the Serbian Radical Party. Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic was a national MP at the time, Ivica Dacic was a spokesman for the SPS. Let me remind you, these are your coalition partners. The Serbian Radical Party, I tell you and everyone from the Democratic Party, took power on 24 March 1998 and was in power until 25 October 2000. Before this March 1998 date, the Democratic Party has repeatedly been in coalition with SPS and JUL in power; to remind you: Miodrag Perisic, Miroljub Labus, Ilija Đukic. Who was the mayor of Belgrade, who held the local government in Belgrade? Let me remind you of those tanks in Bora before the December 1993 elections and the hairless government at the end of 1993 with the Democratic Party. Your relationship with the Democratic Party was marked a year ago. Be careful when you attack the edge of Dacic, you don't have to attack him through me. You sit there and tell him, Dacic, shame on you for that inflation. Don't cross Zoran Krasic. I have nothing to do with that inflation. I even published the book "What Does the Left Know about Rightness". Even so, Ceda Vasiljevic of Šapca financed the book. We had the first survey board, when Vlatkovic couldn't hit the door, poor guy, when we were hearing him here about Dafina and Jazda. Now you're talking to me about some hyperinflation. Remember which one of yours took from the Horse and the Dafina. And it was published in the book, who took as much from them. You're just like that-- come on, you were some kind of power. You know exactly when we were in power. You know exactly when you were in power. It is known exactly when the Democratic Party was power and the results of anyone who was in power are accurate. I'm proud, while I was in power, we stood up to whoever was destroying Serbia, who bombed Serbia. But what he bombed brought you as a infantry. You deceived the people on October 5th. What do I do, people sometimes make mistakes, but I have to respect my people. If he's faced with the Democratic Party's problem, so I'm small enough to have to endure this planetary injustice.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-03-0.u29520	Mr. Srdjan Milivojevic has his word. Just sign in.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-03-0.u29521	Based on the application for discussion. Your Honor, Madam President... (President: Please. )......................................................................................................... Dear Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have had the opportunity to hear the very good explanation of Minister Milosavljevic's necessity to pass this law. I think that argument was really good. In this higher house, there is an institution called the Serbian Parliament Library. In the library of the Serbian Parliament, which we rarely visit, but there are also us who visit it, there are wonderful books. Among others, there is a book called "The History of Parliamentaryism in Serbia". When you read that book, you see that it is not the first time that Serbia has discussed debts in this way and the necessity to be in debt. There have been more difficult moments in Serbian history, there have been governments that have had greater difficulties, but Serbia has survived, thank Lord God, to this day. This morning I was talking about history and the moment when the Prime Minister was Mr. Nikola Pasic. After criticising me for those of you who were not there, Mr. Minister, to just repeat, because the repetition of the mother of success – Nikola Pasic became ill once when the number of civil servants was debated and left the session. Then the opposition sends him a telegram, and the government sends him a telegram, he says – we want a quick recovery, with 82 for and 68 against it. I think we all wish Serbia a quick recovery, and Serbia's economy, and Serbia's budget and Serbia's economy. I think all 250 MPs here are equally fond of Serbia. I will not share MPs in parliament with those who love or do not love Serbia. Today I will also remind you of the fact that, behold, it has been an entire human century and, for God's sake, a century of Serbian history has passed, so I will remind you that in the Serbian Parliament it was discussed when it came to borrowing. In 1907, an angry customs war, a November month, just like the present time, appeared an MP and said: “The cabbage did not get well with me. ” Last year at this time, Mrs. Djukic, you chaired, one of the opposition representatives told us about the fact that his car doesn't work best in the winter, that's how the Rules of Procedure was; today we heard problems with the marking of cattle; I was just waiting for some girls and storms. I have an obligation, as an MP for the ruling majority, to stick to the subject, but also to answer some questions that the opposition has raised here. It was a question – what are you doing here as a trade minister? I suppose you represent the government. I know some might wait for Papua New Guinea or France, but this is still Serbia's parliament, and there are still Serbian ministers sitting here, who explain those laws necessary for the prosperity and progress of the Serbian country. We've had a lot of bile here, a lot of inappropriate criticism, a lot of deviations from the subject. Among other things, it was said about the marking of animals, with a glow of falseness and ignorance of matter. I'm a graduate farming engineer and I can answer all these questions, but I think it's our duty to stick to what's on the agenda. In some situations, however, there are people who do not hesitate to take the biggest stone out of the dust and throw it in the face of those people who are trying to fix what these same people did when they were in a position to do something for Serbia. It is a practice that exists in Serbia, and I guess it marks the political awareness of people who never realize that before they throw a stone at another, they need to ask themselves what they did and what their responsibility is, not only in this debt, but what their responsibility is because we are paying back the bank's debts today. Then they wonder, where is the Commercial Bank in Pristina? That's what the same people who were trade ministers ask themselves, that's what the same people who said -- if a NATO boot sets foot on Kosovo, we're going to disappear from Serbia's political scene, we're never going to deal with politics again, we're going to evaporate, we're going to hit the sand, we're going to hide. That's what those people who call on Tim Marshall's book also honor. I had to read Tim Marshall's book for them. I know that you, as superficial people, never read from cover to cover, but only what suits you. Here, for a gentleman who throws away, on page five tells Tim Marshall that a pile of money from the West was given to corrupt people close to the government or the government itself. You were sitting in that government. How much did you take? You didn't share, did you put everything in your pocket? I want you to agree with each other how much you took from Tim Marshall, but don't honor us. That's what it says on the fifth page of that book. Here, I will quote you: “A lot of money has been given to people from the government itself. ” The Serbian Radical Party was sitting in the government at the time, so agree on how much you took, how much you shared, how much left, how much you didn't share. Is this a fee for the Pećka Patriarchy, for the High Decanas, for another monastery in Kosovo and Metohija, or was it just an apánade for what you have yet to do? Ladies and gentlemen, before you throw a stone at another, remember the Bible story of St. Stefan. On St. Stefan, among other things, when he was stoned in the 34th century, the greatest stone was thrown by his close relative Saul. Saul turned and became Paul. I focused this discussion on you, which I expect at least one of you to turn into Paul and figure out where this world is going. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-03-0.u29522	Thank you. Mr. Krasic, Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-03-0.u29523	Mrs. Djukic, I think I can object to the way you conduct the session. This is like a temple, but it's not a temple of St. Sava. This is where we heard everything and everything. You still had to warn him to take care of the minister. There's the minister. Maybe the Minister's an atheist, maybe he doesn't understand this rock thing and this stuff. Secondly, I haven't heard a word about the bill. A man boasts he's a member of a library. I don't mind, it's nice if he's a member of the library. You could at least warn him a little about some things. If I was talking about Paul, I'd get a warning. (President: Just say which member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. ) Article 27. The thing about power, it was attacking you, so you know. (President: You are objecting to session management and you think I should intervene. That's what I should have done while you were talking, because you didn't stick to the agenda. I followed the law. In the future, copy something, though. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-03-0.u29524	There's no breach of the Rules of Procedure. Would you like to make a statement to the Assembly in the voting day? No, I don't. ) Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, I ask before concluding a principled search whether anyone who has not used his right to Article 93 wants the word. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) I am concluding the principle of shock. We're finishing work today and continuing tomorrow at 10:00. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Second Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs of the people, I find that 108 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 88 MPs are present in the hall, or more than one third of the MPs, and that we have conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending MPs: Aleksandra Jankovic, Nikola Lazic, Željko Tomic, Milica Radovic and Dejan Radenkovic. I would also like to inform you that I am in agreement with Article 88(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, in addition to the proposing representatives: Jasna Matic, Minister of Telecommunications and Information Society, Diana Dragutinović, Finance Minister Verice Kalanovic, Minister of National Investment Plan and Saša Dragin, Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, called for the meetings to be attended by Dragan Vukmirović, Director of the Republic Statistics Institute, Nikola Latinović and Vladimir Stankovic, Assistant Director of the Republic Statistics Institute. I welcome them in your name and in my name and thank you for having responded to the call. We move to 13, 14, 15 and 16 of the agenda – PROPOSALS ON THE CLASSIFICATION OF ACTIVITY, OFFICIAL STATISTICS, PURPOSE OF ACCOUNTS, DOCUMENTS AND ACCOUNTS 2011. YEARS AND A DESCRIPTION OF POLIORITY 2011 I would like to remind you, pursuant to Article 94, that, before the opening of the joint principled search, of the proposals for the law of the agenda, of points 13 to 16, and before the opening of the joint search. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, shall be five hours, and that shall be the Parliament's Group for European Serbia – one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; the SRS Parliamentary Group – one hour, seven minutes and 12 seconds; the G17 Group plus – 28 minutes and 48 seconds; the DSS-Vojislav Kostunica Group - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; the Parliamentary Group Forward Serbia – 25 minutes and 12 seconds; the SPS-JS Group – 18 minutes; the MP group LDP – 14 minutes and 24 seconds; the Parliament group Nova Serbia – 10 minutes and 48 seconds; the Parliamentary group of minorities – eight minutes and 24 seconds and the PUPS – six minutes. According to Article 93(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, MPs who are not members of parliamentary groups, have the right to speak once, up to five minutes. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not done so so far, to file a statement with a number of MPs. I would like to inform you that according to this agenda, the following MPs will be: Sinisa Stamenković – Publisher Group PUPS, Milisav Petronijevic – SPS-JS Parliamentary Group, Jovan Nesović - G17 Plus MP group, Radiša Ilic – SRS Parliamentary Group, Vlatko Ratkovic – MEP Group ZES and Jorgovanka Tabaković – MP group Advanced Serbia. According to Article 142, paragraph 2. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint principle search on proposals for legislation on the classification of activity, on official statistics, on the census of the population, households and housing in 2011 and on the list of agriculture in 2001. Do the representatives of the motionor want a word? (Yes) Mrs. Jasna Matic has a word.
