ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-01-0.u21422	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening a session of the 6th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009. Based on the official record of the presence of MPs, I find that there are 136 MPs present at this time. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 108 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that more than one third of the MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the session of the following MPs: Esad Djudjevic, Milan Dimitrijevic, Milan Lapcevic, Jovan Palalic and Mladen Grujic. In accordance with Article 84(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the President of the Assembly of Ms Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic called for this session within a short period of time set out in Article 84(1). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, as well as those laid down in Article 85(1) of the Rules of Procedure. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, because of the need for the National Assembly to consider proposals for acts in the established agenda as soon as possible. According to Article 88(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the President of the National Assembly, Ms Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, has called for today's session, next to the representative, Dr Diana Dragutinović, Minister of Finance, and Milutin Mrkonjic, Minister of Infrastructure, to be attended by Ivan Maricic, Director of the Treasury and Zarko Milicevic, Jr. adviser at the Ministry of Finance. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, with a call from the Sixth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009, which was called at the request of 127 MPs, pursuant to Article 106(3). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 169 The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia have been submitted to you for the maintenance of the Sixth Extraordinary Session, with the predetermined agenda contained in that request. As you could see, for the Sixth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009, the next Dn e n i d 1 was set. Proposal for a law on the granting of a guarantee from the Republic of Serbia in favour of the "Societ Generale", Paris, France, under the authority of the Public Enterprise "The Ways of Serbia", which was submitted by the Government, 2. Proposal for a law on the granting of a guarantee from the Republic of Serbia for the benefit of Unicredit Bank Serbia a.d. Belgrade under the authority of the Public Enterprise "The Ways of Serbia", which was submitted by the Government, 3. Proposal for a law amending the Law on income tax. National MP Branko Ruzic, based on Article 90(3) and Article 142(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that a joint principle search be carried out on the proposal for a law on the granting of a guarantee from the Republic of Serbia in favour of the "Societ Generale", Paris, France, under the authority of the Public Enterprise "The Ways of Serbia" and the proposal for a law on the granting of a guarantee from the Republic of Serbia in favour of Unicredit Bank Serbia a.d., under the responsibility of the Public Enterprise "The Ways of Serbia", i.e. points 1 and 2 of the agenda. Does MP Branko Ruzic want a word? No, I don't. ) Please determine if there is a voting quorum. In order for the proposal to be accepted or rejected, 126 MPs are required in the Assembly. (Kedomir Jovanovic, from the city: You are breaking the Rules of Procedure. I find that we have a voting quorum. The People's Messengers ask why the People's Messenger Branko Ruzic and the People's Messenger Gabor Lodi came to the table of the chairman. National MP Branko Ruzic, with notice that he is waiting for a spare card, and MP Gabor Lodi, with remarks on the work of his electronic unit. The electronic system shows 126. I put this proposal to the vote, tabled by MP Branko Ruzic. For 119, eight of the 127 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal by MP Branko Ruzic on the merger of the agenda points, i.e. carrying out a joint principled search on the proposal for a guarantee law of the Republic of Serbia in favour of the "Societ Generale", Paris, France, under the responsibility of the Public Enterprise "The Roads of Serbia" and the proposal for a law on the granting of a guarantee from the Republic of Serbia in favour of Unicredit Bank Serbia a.d. Belgrade under the responsibility of the Public Enterprise "The Ways of Serbia" (points 1 and 2 of the agenda). We move to the 1st and 2nd item of the agenda – PROPOSES ON DANIJING THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA, PORIZ, FRANCUSIA AND UNICREDIT BANK OF SERBIA A.D. BELGRADE, AFTER THE HISTORY OF JP "SERBIA" (joint principled search) A unanimous decision of the National Assembly to carry out a joint principled search on the proposal for a guarantee of the Republic of Serbia for the benefit of the "Societ Generale", Paris, France, under the responsibility of the Public Enterprise "The Ways of Serbia" and the proposal for a guarantee of the Republic of Serbia in favour of the Unicredit Bank a.d. Belgrade, under the responsibility of the Public Enterprise of Serbia, and before the opening of the joint principle search, I remind you that, in accordance with Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, are five hours, as well as that this time is allocated to MPs' groups of MPs in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group: Parliament Group For European Serbia – one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; SRS Group - one hour, eight minutes and 24 seconds; Parliament Group G17 plus – 28 minutes and 48 seconds; DSS MP Group - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; MP Group Progress Serbia – 25 minutes and 12 seconds; MEP Group SPS - 18 minutes; MEP Group LDP – 14 minutes and 24 seconds; Parliament group Nova Serbia – 10 minutes and 48 seconds; Parliamentary group of minorities – eight minutes and 24 seconds and PUPS - six minutes. According to Article 93(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, Members of Parliament who are not members of any parliamentary group, have the right to speak each and every one, up to five minutes. I ask the MPs' groups to apply for a word with the order of MPs, if they have not already done so. I would like to inform you that the following MPs will be represented on this agenda: in accordance with Article 37(3). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the SRS Parliamentary Group, will be represented in the debate on the 1st and 2nd item of the agenda of the Sixth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009, by MP Boris Aleksic; the other parliamentary groups will represent the presidents of parliamentary groups or vice-presidents, as this is the only notice for the authorised representative of the parliamentary group for the debate on points 1 and 2 of the agenda. According to Article 142, paragraph 2. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint principle search on the draft law on the granting of guarantees from the Republic of Serbia in favour of the "Societ Generale", Paris, France, under the responsibility of the Public Enterprise "The Ways of Serbia" and the proposal for a law on the granting of guarantees from the Republic of Serbia in favour of Unicredit Bank a.d. Belgrade under the responsibility of the Public Enterprise "The Ways of Serbia". Do the representatives of the proposing Dr Diana Dragutinovic, the finance minister, and Milutin Mrkonjic, the minister of infrastructure, want a word? Yeah. The word has a finance minister. (Kedomir Jovanovic, from the post: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. ) National MP Cedomir Jovanovic wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-01-0.u21423	Madam Vice President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we cannot begin this session in this way, despite your extraordinary concern for that. I'm sorry, you've broken the Rules of Procedure on many grounds. Not to speak now and not to ask for hair in the egg for a half-hour vote, or as long as it takes to move 126 MPs. But this is about Serbia's 175m-euro borrowing. Debts were created by a company formed in 2005. Article 138 has been injured. The Rules of Procedure, which obliges the legislators of these two laws, the law on the duty of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. giving us all the necessary information to discuss these laws. How much is the interest on the loans Serbia is taking? How did the debts come to be? There is no final account of the Public Enterprise "The Ways of Serbia" for 2005, 2006, 2007 and 2008. There is no final account for the Republic of Serbia's budget in the same period. This way we can't work. Serbia owes 300 million, or 175 million in this particular case, to cover the debts of one of its public enterprises. On the board of directors, members appointed by the Government sat down. The Management Board, under the Business Society Act, is obliged to cover its assets with damage caused by irresponsible business. 100m euros is the debt of Serbia's Oil Industry, i.e. minus; 175,000 euros are owed to Serbia. Let's not talk about other public enterprises, let's see who's responsible for this, and then let's talk about it. This isn't enough. In this way, no European country, a normal European country, behaves anymore. If it is an economic crisis, it obliges us to, in addition to the price of the cause, which is very often spoken by the President of the Republic when he criticises his party colleagues, we also talk about the price of a policy. The public company "The Ways of Serbia" is managed by the Republic government and is responsible for this debt that was created and must first account for how debts were created. We had two years of campaigning on a budget surplus. How is it possible that we have a budget surplus and that we only have this much minus in this public enterprise? Nothing personal at the expense of the finance minister, except at this point we need to discuss the future of our country. Give me the facts. A member of the 138th commits us to something like that.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-01-0.u21424	Two minutes, time is used. Thank you. I thank you for your assistance to the MPs who earn no harm, because they are right, there is no harm to the Rules of Procedure. And, in order not to be a dilemma that you have practically misused the right to use the word on the basis of Article 100, you are given the word on the basis of Article 100 of the Law on the Guarantee of the Republic of Serbia (only one point) in favour of the "Society Generale", Paris, France is in accordance with Article 138 and it reads: "The constitutional and legal basis for the adoption of the law – the constitutional basis for the adoption of the law is contained in Article 97, points 15 and 17. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, under which the Republic of Serbia regulates and provides for the financing of the rights and duties of the Republic of Serbia established by the Constitution and the law and other relations of interest for the Republic of Serbia, in accordance with the Constitution. Article 5 The Law on Public Debt (the Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia), number 61/05, has been prescribed that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia decides to grant guarantees from the Republic of Serbia, while a member of the 16th same law is prescribed to guarantee the settlement of the debt of public enterprises founded by the Republic of Serbia in the form of the law. Article 3 The 2009 Act on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia (the Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia), No. 120/08 and 31/09/09) are scheduled for the Republic of Serbia to provide a guarantee to the business banks of 100,000 euros to refinance the commitments of the Public Enterprise "The Ways of Serbia". “ Reasons for the adoption of the law, the second part of the argument: “The reasons for the adoption of the law on the granting of guarantees from the Republic of Serbia in favour of the "Societ Generale", Paris, France, come from Article 4. The loan contract, number 126/09 concluded between the Public Enterprise "The Ways of Serbia", Belgrade, as a debtor, "Societ Generale", Paris, France, as a confidant and "Societ Generale Bank of Serbia" a.d. Belgrade as a representative of the trustee, concluded on 18 May 2009 (hereinafter: the loan contract). Article 4 of the loan agreement stipulates that the withdrawal of a 100m-euro loan by the Public Enterprise "The Ways of Serbia" is conditioned by giving the guarantee of the Republic of Serbia to the total amount of credit in favour of the "Societ Generale", Paris, France (hereinafter: the Bank). The funds of this loan will refinance the settlement of the commitments made by the Public Enterprise "Serb Roads" towards co-negotiators -- contractors. The issue of a guarantee to business banks of the Republic of Serbia of 100m euros to refinance the commitments made by the Public Enterprise "The Ways of Serbia" is provided for in Article 3. The 2009 Act on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia (the Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia), No. 120/08 and 31/09). “ The third part of the argument is – an explanation of basic legal institutions and individual solutions. The third part deals with the law. The fourth part of the argument deals with the assessment of the amount of financial resources necessary for the implementation of the law; the fifth part of the reasons for the adoption of the law by emergency procedure and the sixth part of the reasons for the entry into force of the law the following day from the date of publication. Therefore, an identical argument, not by text, of course, but identical to that of Article 138, is given in the proposal for point 2. The Messengers of the people earn it. Read it, too. If the MPs had read the material that was ready for the session, I wouldn't have had to. If the MPs read Article 100, which describes how they can get the right to speak in order to speak of the breach of the Rules of Procedure, then we would not have to have a misunderstanding. There's no breach of Article 138. Please do not abuse the right to the word you receive under Article 100, and it refers to the procedure. Both proposing representatives are here and will be available to you for questions, additional questions, replicas, and anything that involves a normal debate in the Assembly Hall. The Rules of Procedure will not be allowed to be misused in order to highlight what under Rule 100 cannot be the content of any MP who wishes to speak about the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Would you like to talk again about hurting the Rules of Procedure? MP Cedomir Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-01-0.u21425	Article 100, Article 101. Mrs. Comic, you didn't understand me at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-01-0.u21426	National MP, the explanation of the chairman cannot be subject to replication, nor can the replica be the subject of a violation of the Rules of Procedure, nor can you comment on the explanation of the chairman. What you can, by the terms of the Rules of Procedure, is that you are asking the Assembly to declare that your position is injured by a member of 138 when the chairman, any one, claims that this member is not injured. Anyone else want a word? National MP Zoran Ostojic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go. National MP Cedomir Jovanovic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure, based on article 100.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-01-0.u21427	Mrs. Comic, you've injured Article 104. Now I'll tell you why. You are, in effect, insulting my dignity by finding that we are here trying to abuse the Rules of Procedure to make this session a mess, which is not true. You have read, very carefully, all the arguments that have been passed to us in this text of the Law of Employment, i.e. The guarantees we give for the task of the Public Enterprise "The Ways of Serbia" "The Sosite General Bank" and "Uncredited Bank". I've advertised Article 138, which obliges you, Mrs. Komic, to allow us normal work here. The prerequisite for normal work is clear facts and documents. After reading the very careful explanation, tell me what the interest is on those loans. Where does that say in this law? I'm sorry, one day there's not gonna be a debate based on what we said to each other here during the assembly debate, but on the law. The laws must be clear, comprehensive. There are no final accounts, there's no interest mentioned, there's no reason why the state is in charge of an emergency procedure, which we now have jobs that are so important to do, so we decide to borrow and repay our debts to a public enterprise? The state is in charge of paying back the debts it has created, and we do not have any precondition to talk about the justification of such a 175,000-euro debt. Every day we hear a debate about the height of interest rates. When you take an apartment, you think about interest; when you pay a car, you think about interest on the licking. Why can't we get an answer to the question – where is the interest rate in the proposals of these laws? It is Article 138, which obliges the legislator to provide in a very clear way for us who should vote on this law with basic legal institutes and individual solutions. They have to be contained in the law, and they're gone. We here should vote in favour of the law, which, among other things, finds that the Republic of Serbia is guaranteed to repay the debt and the corresponding interest, and we do not know what the interest is. That's what this is about. It must be contained in the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-01-0.u21428	Two minutes. Thank you. There is no violation of Article 104, MP, because in no way do I endanger your dignity, nor can I comment on your intentions. It is my duty not to allow abuse of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Now we've done it the second time together, because in the explanation of Article 104, you're giving an explanation of what's wrong, in your opinion, with Article 138. Please don't do this and do it without the abuse of the Rules of Procedure. You will be given the opportunity, by business law, to ask what you are interested in asking a representative of the promoter. Article 138 is not injured. The amounts of interest you are interested in will be the subject during this debate and you will have the right to ask, to ask additional questions and whatever you want, but you have no right to abuse the right to the word, and for the violation of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Zoran Ostojić wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-01-0.u21429	Article 27. Mrs. Comic, we need to give a guarantee and put this country in charge with our votes. We don't have the facts to decide, that's what Mr. Jovanovic is trying to say. The MP must have all the facts. You read... Now I'm not getting into what you're saying we haven't read the explanation. We read it, and it doesn't explain why the company, which was formed in 2005, made so many debts; under what conditions we now need to borrow the land; as these banks were chosen, in a tender or otherwise. These are the facts that we lack to decide on, and it's about the big money that we're going to be responsible for because we're going to be in charge of the country here. That's what this is about. How do we decide? Maybe someone can vote because it's his party directive. We're responsible people.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-01-0.u21430	The MPs again get that there is no breach of the Rules of Procedure and once again they are right, especially because you did not give an explanation for the violation of Article 27, but insist on a legal and legitimate position to believe that the content of the law and what is on the law, and in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, it is not enough for you to adopt any position. I can only, on the basis of Article 27, remind you that this is what the debate serves, that you make a stand and that you decide whether to vote or not to vote, whatever you decide as a parliamentary group or individual. So every MP is free to decide how to vote. National MP Dragan Todorovic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-01-0.u21431	On the basis of Article 27 relating to Article 234(1), Mrs. Comic, I think we should have received much more complete notices about the proposals of these two laws, namely guarantees to be given by the Republic of Serbia, because the roads have been linked to an extremely large crime, right from the beginning, since 2001. It was then a public company, or Road Directorate. I know with confidence that by June 2001, she had done all the work done by the Road Directorate in an illegal manner. In the Roads Directorate there was a council of the Roads Directorate and no single job could be assigned to anyone without bidding, nor could the director decide if the amount was more than 800,000 dinars. So, for a full six months, the Road Directorate has been working past the law, also on the basis of the Law on Roads, which is based on some changes that have been proposed and adopted, that no job on the roads can be awarded without bid. Let me remind you, Mrs. Comić, that immediately after the arrival of DOS, the authorities of asphalting, i.e. travel business, began to receive prominent Surchins, above all Ljubiša Buha Chuma, who at the time imported machines for asphalting without customs. When we asked a question in the congregation...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-01-0.u21432	Two minutes, MP, you have used the time available to highlight the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you. There is no breach of the Rules of Procedure, nor did you explain how a member of the 27 was injured. The 234, which you have quoted, in general, concerns the rights and duties of the Members of Parliament. It is the duty of the MPs to respect the Rules of Procedure, and you have just abused it, because that member cannot be violated during the procedure, especially not immediately before you asked for a word. I warn you not to do this, because the same 100th member who gives you the right to the word obliges me to impose criminal measures on you. Do they want the word of the promoter's representatives? You want to go back to hurting the Rules of Procedure? National MP Dragan Todorovic wants to ask a question. You can ask a question based on article 235 on Tuesdays and Thursdays, today you can't. Does he want the word of Minister Diana Dragutinovic? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-01-0.u21433	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you have before you the proposals of two laws, on issuing a guarantee from the Republic of Serbia for the benefit of the "Societ Generale", under the authority of the Public Enterprise "The Ways of Serbia" and for the benefit of the Unicredit Bank, under the authority of the Public Enterprise "The Ways of Serbia". I would take this opportunity to remind ourselves all together of the evolution of the problem, which, most of all, would be resolved after the adoption of these laws. The problem of dues, later, has been present since the start of this company in early 2006. At the time of the establishment of the company, the company, as a legal follower, took over from the Directorate for Roads of nine billion dinars. The company's debts grew, so at the end of 2006, they reached 21 billion dinars, at the end of 2007. 25 and at the end of 2008. 29 billion dinars. The total debt of the Public Enterprise Roads according to domestic creditors is therefore 29.7 billion dinars. Although I am no expert, there are a lot of explanations as to why the Public Enterprise "The Roads" came into the situation in which it came. It is certain that I do not rule out irrationality, however, analysts say the biggest cause of the accumulation of these debts is a discrepancy between the company's obligations based on the construction and maintenance of roads, on the one hand, and income, on the other. As you all know, corporate debt affects the formation of an inequitability chain, especially after the transfer of the effects of the global financial crisis: "The Roads" owes the builders, the builders to their suppliers, banks and employees. That is why the government accepted information on the refinance of the commitments made by the Public Enterprise Putevi and agreed that the Public Enterprise "Putevi" is in charge. In doing so, the amount of 20 billion dinars is secured from credit, with the guarantee of the Republic of Serbia. To remind you, the 2009 Budget Law, and the Budget Rebalancing Act, the Republic of Serbia is scheduled to issue a guarantee in favour of business banks to finance the achievements of the Public Enterprise's claims. I would like to stress that a public procurement has been made for the loan. The following bidders reported: "The Sosite General", "Unrid", "Hipo Alpe Adria" and "AIK Bank". The best offer was made by "The Sosite General". As the "Societte General" set, in some ways, the best conditions and benchmarks, in bilateral negotiations with other bidders it was tried to provide the same conditions. After bilateral negotiations that were held in several circles, the same conditions were also offered by the Unicredit Bank. As for the basic elements of the contract, I will now tax them also for the "Sosite General", and for the "Uncredit Bank". Therefore, the elements of the contract with the Sosite General are: the amount of the loan is 100m euros, i.e. the dinar equivalent; the withdrawal of funds in one tranche; the repayment period - five years; the period of rest - one year. The condition for the withdrawal of credit is the entry into force of this law. The interest rate is variable and is equal to the sum of one month of the eurobor or the reference interest rate increased by the margin, so the margin of 4.05. With regard to the agreement with the Unicredit Bank, the amount of the loan is 75,000 euros; the withdrawal of the loan is also in one tranche; the condition for the withdrawal of the loan is, of course, the adoption of this law; the repayment period is five years; the grace period of one year; the interest rate is variable, the eurobor plus the margin of 4.05. I would also like to remind you of the current terms of borrowing on the international financial market. For the countries in the environment in charge of the international financial market, the margin is 5% and 9% abroad if they are in charge of the local market. The Croatian state is in charge of the domestic market at a rate of 7.9%, including the Public Enterprise Autoway. You know that on the Eurobond of the Croatian state, the interest rate is 6.5%. Also, some other countries, the Baltic states and their public road companies are in debt at rates between seven and 11%. It should not be forgotten that CDS, so something like a risk measure, is 495 basis points for Serbia. Otherwise, CDS is publicly available and it can be verified. Also, loans approved by international financial institutions are about 4%. I therefore believe that, in the current conditions, the conditions that the Public Enterprise "Putevi" has received from the "Sosite Generalal Bank" and "Unicredit Bank" can be considered very favourable. I call upon the Members of Parliament to support these proposals and to adopt these two laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-01-0.u21434	Does the word want Infrastructure Minister Milutin Mrkonjic? No, I don't. ( b) Do the reports of the committee responsible, the Finance Committee, want to speak? No, I don't. ( ) Does the speaker of the Legislative Committee want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of parliamentary groups, want the word? In the electronic system were reported Cedomir Jovanovic, LDP MP Tomislav Nikolic, the chairman of the Prosperity Group, Serbia and Boris Aleksic, a representative of the SRS parliamentary group and, in turn, are getting word for it now. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-01-0.u21435	Mrs. Komic, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, the Honorable Representatives of the Government, Mrs. Dragutinovic, all that you have told us is something that remains within the framework of this debate. What we are discussing here is what the Assembly will plead with its vote, whether it supports it or not. This is why we reacted at the beginning of today’s debate and pointed to a whole series of inadmissible gaps that do not allow us to work normally. The fact that you informed us that by transforming 2005 JP "Serb Roads" inherited 9 billion dinars, and then in 2006 it raised it to 21 billion, then in 2007 to 25, then in 2008 to 29, does not mean anything, because what is most important to us at this point is that these debts are created and that we will blanco support, which the ruling coalition in silence gives to your initiatives, practically legalize something that is for every conviction, which is irresponsible business behavior. The public company "The Ways of Serbia" was founded by the government of the Republic of Serbia. The government is forming a board of directors of the public enterprise, the government appoints a director of a public enterprise. The longtime director of this public enterprise is being prosecuted, and you are denying us the basic facts that are necessary for our normal work. How is it possible to create these debts with the rhythm that you have now presented to us here and what is the connection between the debt created and the fact that they coincide with the election campaigns? Year 2007 – 25 billion dinars of debt, 2006 – 21 billion, by two years increase from nine to 25. These are the prices of political campaigns run in this country. We are interested in the justification of spending the money of the Public Enterprise "The Ways of Serbia", we are interested in the effects of this borrowing. We have an understanding for those who did those jobs, so now they can't get the money. That happens too often. It is true that at this point the state is the biggest debtor to Serbia's economy. She owes more to the economy than the economy owes her. We are in favour of finding the most efficient solution that would not result in what you were saying: economic chaos, because of the fact that the companies in which the state is obliged cannot settle their obligations, which destroys the entire economic system. What we want to talk to you about here is far more serious than the consequences you've pointed out. If in this way we go over irresponsiblely created debts, then the duties will be repeated. What we have to take care of is something that you have mentioned, justifying the debts created by the opinion of experts, and for me, you are Serbia's most important expert in the area of public finances, absolutely, who said that the revenues were not enough for the obligations set before that public enterprise. Who defines obligations for this public enterprise? What does the Law on Roads, which was adopted in 2005? That the Public Enterprise "The Ways of Serbia" is financed from tolls. At this point in the Special Court, there is a lawsuit for robbery in the Public Enterprise, in the toll collection sector. The Director of the Public Enterprise was not removed when the failure was detected. It is then said that the Public Enterprise is financed by the payment of 10% of excise duty on oil derivatives. We pay the most expensive oil in Europe. Today, Serbian citizens pay a liter of diesel or gasoline as if a barrel of oil costs $140, and tonight we were informed by CNN that he has jumped optimism in the world and that the price of the barrel is 66 dollars. We in Serbia pay twice as much. How is it possible that all these sources of funding for JP "Serbia's Ways" were not enough? Then, the Republic of Serbia's budget, a third source of funding. The budget of the Republic of Serbia was in surplus in 2005 and 2006. These were election passwords of the then ruling coalition. Do I need to remind you of the NIP? The NIP combined 1.500,000 euros received on the basis of the "Mobtel", by paying Telenor; how is it possible that this was not enough for one reasonable financing of the Public Enterprise "The Ways of Serbia", which must operate in accordance with the law? We now need to agree here on the fact that we have received an interest rate lower than the interest rate received by the Republic of Croatia. The Republic of Croatia owes $40 billion. The sources of financing of the Republic of Croatia are different from the source of Serbia's funding. We think that every interest rate mentioned during this discussion, even in your presentation of this law, must be an integral element of the law that we will vote on. It's not there. This law accurately sets out the amounts for which we provide guarantees: 100 million to the Sosite General Bank, 75,000 to the Unicredit Bank. No mention of interest, no talk of interest. I'm asking you, why is that? In what other place is it possible, except in the Serbian Parliament, to guarantee a loan without obtaining a legal basis in defined interest? Whatever credit you take in Serbia, whether you're a jury, lay a second-row mortgage, take that loan, the basic element of the contract is the interest rate. There's no such thing here in the law. I absolutely believe what you said. I have no reason to doubt it. I think the interest rate of the eurobor plus 4% in these circumstances is something that is acceptable, but let it be within the law. There's no such thing in the law, and we guarantee something like that. What is very important and cannot be overcome is the business policy of the country's public enterprises. We were so insistent on departementisation and depolitisation, and now you've got a quorum from an opposition party, from New Serbia. Without New Serbia, you couldn't begin the debate, you couldn't unite the points. I think they're interested in getting a solution to this problem we're facing right now. Only, as part of the previous government, New Serbia has established a party monopoly in the JP's "Serb Roads" sector. New Serbia's official was the director of JP "Serbia's Ways", and the government has now filed criminal charges against him, criminal proceedings are under way. Is this now a compensation for some of the mutual concessions you're going to make to each other? He stayed in debt of a hundred million from the NIS. You are now informing us that 300,000 JP is "Serbia's Ways". How long is the railroad, what's JAT's debt? Who is responsible for such a thing, and will one day establish the principle of responsibility for people who run public enterprises? That's a question for your government. Before you came here with the idea that we should guarantee the country's duties, you had to sanction those who put the Public Enterprise into such a chaotic position and destroyed the entire business branch. As for what one opposition party representative spoke earlier about in 2001, 2002 and 2003, a dinar of debt did not remain in 2004 for Serbia's passengers, nor did a dinar of debt remain behind the government of Zoran Djindjic and Zoran Zivkovic. How much is left? A billion. These were operational costs, given that the government fell, but these weren't debts created in this way. Our government was transferred to the Assembly in November 2003. Extraordinary elections have been called. We have stopped a year and a half before the term of office, in a way that is characteristic of parliamentary democracy, but have interrupted our plans. That's what this is about. The company that worked in this sector at the time worked professionally. When we talk about JP "Serbian Ways", then we are talking about a problem that needs to be solved. We are in the mood to help such a solution, to unblock that sector. Give us assurances that you will insist on determining responsibility for those who have done such business damage. It doesn't matter if it's due to some bad intentions or ignorance, but in every company, it means that the business damage that's being created is being followed by some kind of responsibility. Who's going to be responsible for this kind of policy? There is no company in the world that would allow such a thing. Why is this allowed in Serbia and is this the price of a political coalition that was made in June 2007, two years ago, when we criticised you, primarily the Democratic Party, because of the way the coalition is being made, because of the country's parceling? The amateurs have been running our country for years, and now we're paying the price for something like that. The election campaigns came down to the Ash shovel – the state takes from the citizens, and then returns them to the election campaign. There was no plan, no system building. Now we're listening to stories about Corridor 10. Why isn't that corridor made? Concession is scheduled, so it's gone. The state itself will build, and we don't have the money for that. You know very well, we don't have the money to cover the debts of a public enterprise from the past, let alone find money to finance highways in this country. That's where the line should be drawn. It's very clear what this law is trying to do. With this law, you are practically trying to cover the damage that has been done in the past without asking a question of political responsibility for such a thing, which is impossible. Why is there no question of responsibility? Because your coalition partner today, Deputy Prime Minister Mladjan Dinkic, was the finance minister in the government. The NIP minister in the previous meeting is Democratic Party senior official Dragan Gilas, mayor of Belgrade. Who made those plans if it wasn't the NIP Ministry and if it wasn't the finance minister? Who decided on the costs of a public enterprise, if the Ministry of Public Finance did not exercise control or was unable to exercise supervision? That's what we need to talk about. It's a tough situation. We don't want to make it difficult. We want to help you too, Minister Mrkonjic. Don't expect us to cross that path alone. Take a step, not towards the Liberal Democratic Party, but towards that part of society that is now suffering. Thousands of families are on the verge of existence because people don't get money from companies where they're engaged. The machines stand by the roads, they can't leave, because there's no oil for them. We want to work it out. Let's solve it in such a way that this problem never happens again, to establish a clear responsibility and to make it clear here. No final accounts for 2005, 2006, 2007, 2008 and 2009. First, the government needs to give a final bill to the budget, then a public company, and then we need to talk about whether LDP will submit the names of its financiers to the website or not. The state needs to make an example. Give us final accounts for all previous years and also for "Serbia's Ways", to see how the debts came to be. If there are no final accounts, that's worse. If the new leadership doesn't insist and doesn't work, if it can't do it today, say it will be in a month, and we'll believe it, well, we'll be so naive. Show your intention to change the system. It's an awful lot of money that we're making guarantees for right now. That's almost half of the money we got from the NIS privatisation, and JP debt "Serbian Ways" is 75% of the money we got to privatise the NIS. This privatisation was declared a historic business in our country. So 400,000 for NIS, and 300,000 minuses have made "Serbia's Ways", and we have no highway completed, no system problems are solved. Roads were being made where the election campaign was being campaigned, and then monuments and boards were being erected for the ministers of life, because they were the benefactors of the end, who voted for them for it. We want to break up with that practice. In order for us to do so, we need a serious state administration that comes out to parliament and says -- here's the law, we give guarantees for 100,000 thousand or 75,000 grand capitals and a corresponding interest, Eurobor plus 4.05, which is a good interest; then the minister explains and sets examples and we say – okay, but let's see how the debts have been made, who answers and how this problem is solved. The company law obliges us to do so. A member of the Management Board, each of the presidents, until the last member at the end, shall guarantee his assets for the damage caused, if the damage is due to unconscious business. Has anyone been responsible in Serbia for such a thing? It's not. We want to change that. You'll have LDP support if you speak openly about the problem we're trying to solve right now. If it turns into the silence of the entire ruling coalition, the silence of the minister who presented something to us, and now, what to do, since she got that hot potato; in your impotence, because you don't know what you're going to do every day because you're being chased by the road that you owe money to, and on the other hand, you have an agenda of your own, so I guess something has to be done, then we all have a problem together. We do not want to participate in this problem, but we will step out of it and say no to such laws. Let Velimir Ilic vote for these laws, because this is how he realised his politics.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-01-0.u21436	Diana Dragutinovic, finance minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-01-0.u21437	I just wanted to say that the government's relationship, and especially the finance ministry, towards the Public Enterprise, has changed quite a bit. Therefore, debts must be regulated in some ways, because this causes much bigger problems than just not solving problems with regard to the Public Enterprise "The Roads". You can't solve all the problems. The fact is, this is an inherited problem. However, since 1 January 2009, JP "Putevi" is obliged to report on income and expenditure to us every month, we always see the result, reports business projections for the next year. The JP Roads will no longer be allowed to accumulate debts.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-01-0.u21438	National MP Velimir Ilic has the right to replication based on direct reference, for three minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-01-0.u21439	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I don't want anyone to get political points on this issue here right now and tell a story that isn't justified. I want to make arguments about what this is really about and why the debt in the company "The Ways of Serbia". Since 2000, and perhaps earlier, the company "The Ways of Serbia" has brought debt as a Directorate, which was a budgetary user. Serbia's Road Directorate had a 10.2 billion debt at the moment when the Directorate of Serbia was shut down and the JP was created "The Paths of Serbia" in the Serbian Parliament. The government of the Republic of Serbia was obliged to debunk the Directorate on the same day and form the JP "The Paths of Serbia" with a balance of zero. But then Finance Minister Mladjan Dinkic promised to do so within three months. Serbian parliamentarians accepted it and the government of the Republic of Serbia has taken the obligation to debt 10.2 billion dinars within three months of "Serb Roads". It's a 2,000-year-old debt in 2001, it's been rebuilding after the bombing, etc. Only the debt to Fecketić was three billion dinars. It is outside of this 10.2 billion, because the Republic of Serbia's budget was then blocked and half of the financing was half, and half of the "Serb Road" was removed from the account in the blockade that followed. A lawyer who was protecting interests was removed because he did not inform the government that the proceedings were under way. At that time, we paid for one trip that is not worth a tenth, with interest that was three billion inflation years, and damaged the road, damaged the Republic of Serbia's budget. Therefore, the finance minister has not debunked the Directorate for five years, which was the budget user. Travellers had the opportunity to immediately charge out of budget users by blocking the budget, however, in a public company they had to pay interest for five years at 10.2 billion. Mladjan Dinkic did so and therefore, by all laws, he should have been held accountable. He passed on, and it went as it went, to this day. The next Finance Minister, Mirko Cvetkovic, in this parliament and on the Transport and Connections Committee made a promise that he would take a loan within a month, two years ago, and this now credit that appears and extends that debt from the crossing of the Road Directorate to the JP "The Ways of Serbia". However, Not the replica, I'm going to use this party part now. [[President: Three minutes, replica time is over.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-01-0.u21440	You won't, MP, you won the line. The right to speak, as presidents of parliamentary groups, has already been given to MPs Tomislav Nikolic and Boris Aleksic. Unless they agree to break the Rules of Procedure together and Mr. Velimir Ilic continues, but I disagree. Please stick to the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-01-0.u21441	Here, Nikolic stands me over the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-01-0.u21442	You all agree? So we're breaking the Rules of Procedure together. The word comes from MP Velimir Ilic, president of the parliamentary group. You have 20 minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-01-0.u21443	What happened next? The court's rulings came up about various works, and it's all in financials, and it's been charged. They've put up with all the Roads. In 2006, however, the IMF decided to break the contract with the Republic of Serbia because we had reinvested the programme that was planned under the contract. At the time, Finance Minister Mladjan Dinkic asked the government to accept that the investments would be cut by five billion to stay within the IMF frameworks and that the contract that was under way would be implemented by the end, because we could not get credit if the contract was terminated during that period. We at the government then accepted... It has been said that the five billion in the next financial year will return to "The Ways of Serbia" and that five billion for investments are "debted" from the Road of Serbia, for works that have already been carried out. The government then made a decision, on the proposal of Finance Minister Mladjan Dinkic, and entered the budget for next year to return five billion to "Serbia's Ways". But there was a choice. The next finance minister, Mirko Cvetkovic, refused to return five billion and said he was no longer interested in it, so the tolls got another five billion, the interest started to arrive and that's why this debt was accumulated. In the same financial year, the NIP was reinvested, money was lost in the NIP and six billion are said to be transferred to the next year for the NIP and will be paid, which has not been done to date. That's the debt to Serbia's travellers. We had 11 billion -- five of the IMF and six billion that the NIP never paid, and that's where the interest started, these are unpaid bills. It's an irresponsibility of the Serbian government. It has been said that since privatising the company, the debt to the travel companies will be compensated and returned. Privatisation of travel firms was completed, then Minister Cvetkovic, as well as Minister Dinkic, failed to keep his promise. There is a conclusion in this Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on this and there is a criminal complaint against the director of "The Way of Serbia" for this, for these six billion. Why? Because, like, one-year-old fake paperwork was transferred to next year. In fact, the government of the Republic of Serbia and finance ordered him to do so, which he received a criminal report and should be held accountable. Therefore, the government of the Republic of Serbia, both this and the previous one, was step-motherly acting according to "Serbian Ways". They didn't settle their obligations, and it's time that the tolls couldn't take it anymore. They all went bankrupt and can't work, they don't have people, they're shutting down their power, the Bridge is off water, because the government of the Republic of Serbia, one, the other, the third, has never fulfilled obligations since 2000. Everyone says - let's work. And now this is being done on faith, Madam Finance Minister. Now the toll is due for this work. Everyone says - the highway starts, they leave, they take pictures, they start the highway, and what will Mrkonjic do after that story? They promised him, and if they “make him, ” they wouldn't give him, where would he go in front of the road? So I was in a similar situation; the government made a request, and the minister begged the traveller to transfer the debt, to accept the debt, and now someone is asking – why are the debts? The Governing Board, as a multi-party body (the government's relationship is always transferred to the Governing Board), has always accepted it unanimously and this has been done in the process. You never pay anything, you just owe it. That's the way it is for other companies, it's one policy that needs to be interrupted, put an end to the point and put in order. Therefore, tollers, neither guilty nor debtors, pay interest. Who's gonna pay them interest? These are the debts Mr Jovanovic spoke of. Therefore, gentlemen, we must... That is why we have supported these people who, neither guilty nor debtor, are doing their job (and the PPP of Belgrade, PPP of Nis, "The Roads" of Užice) have come to one of the most difficult situations, because they do not have bread to eat today and they want to work. They were constantly the government's conclusions, decisions were made in parliament, in the budget, by the Serbian parliament; no one asked why the finance minister did not accept what was put into the budget and why five billion, which were in the Republic of Serbia's budget, had been hitched and never, until today, been paid to "The Ways of Serbia". So I suggest that this is where the polling committee is formed, that all this be confirmed, not that we're here pretending crazy, that we don't pay people. They have done their job honestly and honestly, according to all technical regulations and norms, and in accordance with the law, but the obligations are not fulfilled. One other thing hurts me today – when the skates and the dives (three billion) were created, a warrant was given to the Roads by the traffic police that the works had to be performed immediately, and no one had paid until today. It was said that later, after the budget rebalance, it would be paid. Here, Mrkonjic is here, not paid. It's said to be covered with some kind of loan. I am now interested in why since the sale of "Mobtel" – which has been sold for 1,600,000 euros, and it has been said to make corridors and tolls – no money has been spent to this day in what is agreed, and the funds have been spent? It is a question for the then finance minister, Mr Cvetkovic. Why since the sale of the department store, 300,000...? It's said, everything that remains goes into the corridors. So far, no money has been transferred, and they could not pay on corridors or for powers, nor have the country been able to pay the peasants. Why since the sale of the third operator, 300,000 euros has been spent, so far no dinar has been placed where it was agreed? There's no money, it's 2,260,000,000 euros, it's not paid. Therefore, you can no longer work on the word. I can't promise not to keep them, and that's how it's been done for years. Now the loans are being raised, given to the tolls. Travelers owe so much to Jugopetrol and the banks; they want to revive Jugopetrol, to give him back a long toll, and the tolls won't get a single dinar. What the banks give, they give exactly what the banks owe to the banks by the travel companies. I repeat, this is a debt that has been made for years. Everyone looked through their fingers and transmitted as a staff from government to government, from generation to generation, from parliament to parliament. Now it's come to an end and the travel companies can no longer physically survive in this whole story. That is why we supported them, that this promise that has been made and for years has finally been fulfilled and that Serbia is at peace with the debts. I repeat, these 10.2 billion dinars are in charge during the government from 2000 to 2003-2004. The same was transmitted during the next government, and this is exactly the fifth government carrying tens of billions, each other, under the obligation to make peace. So please don't tell any more stories here. If we want the truth, let's sit down, there are conclusions, there are papers on how these debts happened, and in what way, who made and in what period, and they didn't pay. I don't give a shit about another question -- why is this loan coming for ratification, and the one of the three billion euros didn't come for ratification here? Why have we never discussed this three billion-euro loan, how the funds will be spent, how and who will get from these major businessmen? This is what we are discussing now, and we have debated it a hundred times; and it is necessary that each of Serbia's duties come to parliament for ratification, not that some credit can, and some cannot. How could the National Bank of Serbia be in charge, on its proposal, without being ratified in the Serbian parliament? Why are certain laws on responsibilities passed without debate in parliament and without reason how these funds will be spent? Because it's a debt, and we're going to have to pay back the same three billion euros, as we have to pay back this. I have repeatedly asked myself why there is no one to bring to the public where the money from the sale of the "Mobtel", where the third operator's funds, where are the funds from the sale of the Belgrade Stock Houses, which were on the bill? The funds were transferred when the elections were called and they were on the accounts, they were operational funds. All funds, minors, have been spent in the election campaign for the last republican elections. Right after the election, it was said that the till was empty, that there was no money, that filling the budget was nothing. I repeat, before these elections, those funds existed, and they just got lost. I was told because I was the Minister for Capital Investments – the sale of "Mobtel" will allow your ministry to work on corridors, to pay for it, to end it all. To this day, one metre of these funds have not been made, and no funds have been made. The decision was to use these funds for the production of Corridor 10, however, the funds were spent, they are not presently available, they are active. Therefore, I wanted to help the tollers, to maintain that branch of the economy, which is extremely important for Serbia's development, because our companies are blocked and cannot compete in any tender that has been reported recently. You remember that Bridge lost the bridge at Beska because it was blocked and international banks refused to participate in the tender. They vetoed and said they had to choose second-placed, not first-placed Bridge, because, Malten, she was in front of bankruptcy. He's in the same situation today, because the debts aren't due. Simply, many companies that have meant a lot to Serbia have failed and because of these debts they could not compete in international tenders (if you are in charge, over-indebted, in an international tender you cannot participate), but always participate as subcontractors in some foreign companies. The foreign companies began to build their businesses in Serbia and completely destroy Serbian firms, which have worked well both in the country and abroad for years. We lost the status we had for years, as extremely good performers. In this way, construction companies were destroyed, let's just take the giants that we had: "Planum", "Comgrap", "Ratko Mitrović", "Rad" and many others. In the same way, because they were owed, no one paid them, and all those companies were put into bankruptcy. In this way, the Ministry of Finance also brought into bankruptcy our banks that followed these companies, and thus Serbian banks, such as Beobanka, Jugobanke, Investbanke, were introduced into bankruptcy when Sartid was privatised. Who did this, in what way? Now we ask foreign banks to support our businesses to survive in life and to wonder under what conditions these loans are given, as we heard from the finance minister. So let all of this be to the honor of all the finance ministers, who have passed on for years, from God Djelic to today's finance minister. I don't know what's been going on these past few years. I hear something's fixing, but there's a lot less going on. It's less work because there's no money. We didn't break the budget, we didn't break what was intended, never, but the funds were not given to us under the budget law that was passed in parliament. Why weren't they given to us? Because the minister can't sit and make promises, in finance, without realising it. You know that Dinkic made a thousand promises (actions, "Station", responsibilities, financing "full" etc.) And no one can ask him, man, what are you doing with the budget? That's how he went out to press conferences, and that's how he talked for years -- the tolls will be in debt. We have all those records. The passengers will be due in two months, three months, next month. People used to come to meetings with the government a hundred times. I remember, as minister, sitting with Cvetkovic, today's prime minister, the then finance minister; we have a record from a meeting where he gave his word that in three months, when he became Minister of Finance, he would owe it all. To this day, no money has been given. Now he's the prime minister and now he's making promises to resolve it and, of course, he's going to settle the debt of the Republic of Serbia to the banks, which is how he's going to repay it. The question is, what about the six billion in the NIP that were meant to invest in the travel economy, which has not been paid to date? What about five billion at the IMF and what about 10.2 billion for which Dinkic made a promise that he would immediately return from privatisation to the roadblocks and put them on his feet? I would really like to ask these questions to ministers who did not keep their promises at the time. There are orderly papers. Why hasn't anyone called for the responsibility of these people? To this day, no one was responsible for anything, and I repeat, the passengers were not guilty or debtors, they were lost, they were left without pay, they were in debt, they were paying huge interest; they were destroying Jugopetrol, they were causing problems for him, they were not talking. Many Serbia-wide subcontractors have neither been guilty nor obliged to pay for an irresponsibility of finance ministers from 2000 to today. Mrs Dragutinovic, and you received those responsibilities, as a staff member, from the previous finance minister; the one before you passed on to the next and kept promising, promised, and now it has fallen to you to repay it. You didn't answer how much there was money in the Privatisation Fund when you received your duty. You did not answer us, I asked you a few times, what about the "Mobtel" funds, did you receive them, when you became minister, since then Minister Cvetkovic, today's prime minister? Where are the funds that have been transferred to the Vojvodina Capital Fund for the construction of the embankment, reconstruction of the Pančeva Bridge and a series of other projects that have not been done so far? Therefore, we need to launch responsibility, but we need everyone in the government to respond and we need to have an argument, not that people who are neither guilty nor responsible for this situation are being punished, that we don't pay them. This debt must be settled, because it is the debt made by finance ministers with their lies at government meetings, in parliament, in committees and all public places, in front of the passengers, in the hundreds of meetings that have been up to today. The passengers had to accept it, they had nowhere else to go. They say if we don't accept it, they won't give us any more work. They are poor, what they will say, come on. It is now said that part of the debt will be converted into some public bonds, that it will be divided. They'll have to accept, where they'll have to accept, the backlog of the debt that's out of this credit debt. I mean, Mr. Grouchy, that I've brought the truth and that you've received neither guilty nor debt, and that today you have to deprive it and go to unpleasant meetings with tolls, which take hours. The Minister gives you a promise and says: "The NIP will regulate it in two or three months; this will regulate it in a month; behold, the time has finally come to resolve it. It would be my pleasure to get rid of this because of Serbia, to have the tolls debunked, clean and able to work normally, like all normal businesses. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-01-0.u21444	The word was sought by MPs Cedomir Jovanovic and Dragan Todorovic. Right on line, MP Cedomir Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-01-0.u21445	I was mentioned by MP Ilic, and I received a reply from the finance minister to part of the previous discussion. As for the Ministry of Finance, we support every change in work, including the fact that there is now additional control. I think if it were necessary to do so earlier, I'm sure the debts would have been lower. All that Parliamentarian Ilic really points to this government, this same government as a feud in which someone has police, someone has justice, someone has health care, someone has finances, someone has roads and depending on the closeness of the state whether it works or not. Mrs Dragutinović, we from the Liberal Democratic Party are only interested in one thing at the moment – why is the law incomplete, why is there no interest in the law that you mention? If that interest doesn't matter in itself, why is it mentioned in the principal? If we're giving out a guarantee from the contract, then why is it mentioned how big the principal is? The contract mentions a corresponding interest. This is like knowing that the principal is 100,000, or 75,000 thousand, and that we guarantee a corresponding interest, and it's not said how big it is. It's not said to be variable, Eurobor plus 4.05. We are passing one unfinished law, and tomorrow someone else will interpret the obligations of the Republic of Serbia, and we want to avoid it. We're interested in why there's no interest in the law. As for Mr. Ilic, he mentioned me, I don't want to bring this debate down to any interparty bickering. I think this is too serious to be able to do something like that right now, there are so many topics that we can “snap party hands. ” What's the problem? The problem is that the Management Board was formed in 2006 and that only representatives of all parties of the then ruling coalition entered the Management Board. It is not only Ilic's responsibility, it is the responsibility of the entire ruling coalition, or because they were knowingly involved in this damage or because they were not capable enough to prevent it. Chairman of the Management Board: Zoran Pesovic, New Serbia. Members: Bogoljub Pejčić, Veroljub Stevanović party, Golub Rajic, former official and MP of the SPS, Milomir Sljić, SPO committee group in SO Kraljevo, Jovo Nesevic, group G 17 plus, municipality of Kraljevo. All of you took part in the work of this board of directors, it is not only Velimir Ilic, but the entire Management Board, and then the Government that did not lead the serious policy. We privatised Telekom Republika Srpska, tasked the country with 700,000, which is now due to be returned by Telekom Srbija, but we did not use those 700,000 for the infrastructure that was in charge of "Serbia Roads" or Project Corridor 10, for which we have called a concession, and now we have a court dispute and arbitration in Paris. It's irresponsible behavior. Based on these facts, we're looking for very precise laws. From this comes our request – a precisely defined obligation based on the principal and interest-based obligations. There's no contract that's made for a loan without the interest being mentioned, but it's listed in such an undefined way...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-01-0.u21446	Three minutes, MP. Replication time has been used. Right on line, MP Velimir Ilic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-01-0.u21447	I would like to rephrase to the gentleman who spoke, Jovanovic, and remind him that his government, in which he was vice president, transferred to the next government a debt of 10.2 billion and three billion paid for works on the basis of a court dispute, for a part of Feketic – 13.2 billion to which interest went to this day and which to this day were not owed. Therefore, it is a debt that has been earned since 2000 and beyond, perhaps even before, I don't know, but during Djelic it was transferred to Finance Minister Dinkic, who accepted that he owed it, not to repeat the story. Therefore, the truth must be told. It's time for those people to part once and see what it is in this case and whose debt it is. It is true that the board of directors is the one who manages the company. It is not true that Pesovic from New Serbia was never a member of New Serbia; no one who gives the director could not have a president. Nor is our proposal, you see whose it is. But, gentlemen, everyone in the government today, here, has a board of directors today; the same people remain from some of the parties that are still in the ruling coalition today, as well as in the previous government. Therefore, they have always supported this debt transfer, not to be tasted to the end. Why? Because it was recommended by the government, as it was in previous years. The time has come to settle the accounts, because the tolls can no longer live, to survive, can't receive the pay. They're all blocked and they're all in a difficult situation. They owe Jugopetrol 100m euros, right now. We're in a situation where Jugopetrol goes under ice for a long time, and that debt has been transferred, gentlemen, for as long as I know, for ten years. Someone has to pay for bitumen, oil; it's time to pay for what was taken. I don't want to talk about this anymore, talk about it. If anyone is particularly interested in who's responsible, we can list everything, you can see it in the papers, and you can see it very correctly. But everyone sitting here in parliament who was in these governments or in the boards of directors is responsible because they obediently raised their hand, gentlemen. As you raised your hand on Friday for 63 laws and 1,500 amendments in one day, so those people before you did the same thing, raised their hand and accepted it and, behold, today all the companies went bankrupt and all the things they're getting now...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-01-0.u21448	People's MP, replica time has been used. National MP Dragan Todorovic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-01-0.u21449	Article 101: “Unless the MP in his presentation at the meeting of the National Assembly has spoken offensively about the MP from another Parliament group, stating his name and name and function,” this is not, but this is: “that is to say, the MP to whom the presentation refers has the right to a replica. ”
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-01-0.u21450	The MP, the right to replication and to give replicas cannot be the subject of a breach of the Rules of Procedure, it is the discretionary right of the chairman. You've already been warned not to abuse your right to a word based on article 100. The right to the replica is decided solely by the chairman. This can't be the subject of getting word, whether you think or don't feel that the chairman or the chairman did well.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-01-0.u21451	Article 104. Mrs. Comic, you're seriously misusing your discretionary rights and violating...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-01-0.u21452	People's MP, discretion can't be the subject of a statement of violation of the Rules of Procedure. Please read carefully the provisions of the Rules of Procedure and use it without breaking or misusing the rights given to you. National MP Cedomir Jovanovic wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-01-0.u21453	Mrs. Komic, in accordance with Articles 100 and 101. The MP Ilic misread me.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-01-0.u21454	People's MP, you can't get the right to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure when it comes to giving a replica. Please read carefully. So, if you wanted to quote Article 101, if someone had misread you, you would have to look for a replica and a replica would have been given to you, as has already been given to you and to the MP Velimir Ilic. The right to a word pursuant to Article 100(1) shall be obtained if the procedure is injured and the infringement of the procedure cannot be a replication because it is the decision of the chair. The right to the replica will be given to all, and you, if you are seeking the right to a replica, believing that MP Velimir Ilic misread you, but I ask you not to abuse the rights which are subject to Article 100(1). So, if you want the right to a replica, since you're exchanging arguments with the president of the NS Group, you can have the right to replicate because you've exchanged various arguments, there's room for both of you to get a word, but giving or not giving a replica can't be a violation of the Rules of Procedure. The right to replicate, MP Cedomir Jovanovic, replicates to MP Velimir Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-01-0.u21455	Thank you. Article 101, as I said. What is the problem with this discussion is obviously a very unserious attitude towards public money. We have, Mr Ilic, remarks from the 2006 Public Enterprise Financial Report "The Ways of Serbia". The company started operating on February 23rd, 2006, and at that point, costs from the previous period which were not covered, i.e. debts, amounting to 7,990,000,000 dinars. It's February 2006. After our government, in 2004 and 2005, the government in which you were the Minister of Infrastructure spent money through the Republic Road Directorate and then through the Public Enterprise "The Ways of Serbia". As the finance minister said, the government in which I was vice president left an unsettled commitment of a billion dinars behind. These unsettled obligations were also the result of large debts inherited from the 1990s. The fact is that we've been stopped in the third year of our term, so it's not a complete project. Finally, if anything was illegal, you were the first to find something like that, sanction it. Since you have dealt with everything that had to do with Zoran Djindjic in the government of Vojislav Kostunica, you have dealt with his policy at every turn, I am sure any irregularities in the work of the Republic Road Directorate would be rigorously sanctioned. If not, I invite you to take responsibility for this failure, as well as for everyone else. Those who sin, of course, should answer for their mistakes, as well as those who are obliged to control you and remove you. The fact is that the Public Enterprise "The Ways of Serbia" was too politicised, that it had practically become a party prey, that it had put a sign of equality between the electoral campaign and the activities of the company, which is unacceptable and incompatible. We now need to vote for an unfinished law, a law that does not precisely define an interest rate at the capital of 175,000 euros. In particular, the question that we can discuss at some other time, why is it that the ruling coalition in 2004 is conceived on these grounds and why does this debt appear in "The Ways of Serbia" and does not appear in the Republic Health Fund, does not appear in a whole series of other public enterprises, which also had precise commitments and, in accordance with these obligations, clear rights? The biggest gap is in "Serbian Ways" and that is something for every conviction, primarily because of the fact that we are now in charge of this country. It's too much of a 300,000 mistake to be tolerated or to be passed over in silence.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-01-0.u21456	The word has been made by MP Tomislav Nikolic, president of the Prosperity Group, Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-01-0.u21457	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, we have a united debate on two laws in which the state immediately commits itself in the first article and says it will settle the obligations of the Public Enterprise of Serbia on both credits, because all other members are talking about how the funds for the payment of the loan will provide the debtor with their own incomes, and the state will carry out the obligation instead of the debtors, so it will assume the right to return the principal, interest and we will charge the legally tightened interest. What are we talking about here? About the state and the public enterprise; a public enterprise that has no balanced income and expenditure, which is making debts year after year, which now assumes obligations that it will not be able to repay. This is not an investment in new roads, in a new toll collection, in new revenues "The Way of Serbia". This is an investment in the debt "The Way of Serbia". "Serbia's Roads", which make debts each year, take credit, which you know cannot be returned. They can't bring him back. When you started this company, you didn't balance your income and expenses at all. You made him a debtor. Every year ten billion new debts. Who? Travellers. What's the situation with the butters now, like the entire economy in front of you? Absolute indifference. When it comes to companies of other importance, they fail, they go bankrupt, and you can't drive the roads into bankruptcy, it's your fault and your responsibility. They can't stop working for you because they don't get anything either. You have excluded many of our companies from the tender, bids, absolutely rejected by investors, because they no longer have jobs and no money. We have bridges built by strangers, roads built by strangers. There was a time since 2001 when the roads were adapted and this was done by Chume, because Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic told him which machines should be imported to the lysing, which no one in Serbia has. The condition in all tenders and bids was that the width of the tape was made by those machines that only the Chumes had. You shouldn't have owed him. When there was a little debt with the plague, then you solved even if you killed him. Did anyone commit an assassination at Chumett's firm when the state owed him money? People who worked for the state at the time. It's easier for you today with the tolls. They're mostly solid people, making roads all their lives. There are no criminals here, and there's nothing to pay for, no pay, no fuel, no refurbishment of the fleet. Foreign companies show up taking over jobs, and they hire them as subcontractors for a crumb of bread. You get an "Alpine" or some "Pore" as performers on the highway, you go there – all of our machines registered in Serbia. Of course, they appear that day, Mr. Minister, when you come to open the works, and then, where, my dear. The question is, who gave them five liters of oil to show up at the construction site in the first place? This loan is very interesting. There's one in the dinars, one in the euros. It is in one - per middle course on the day of reconciliation, and in the other it does not write, but only writes - 100m euros. You told us here that you were bilaterally with other banks to determine whether they could respect the conditions given by the Sosite General Bank. Since when is it ever done legally in the economy, in any investment, that you meet some bidder with the lowest offer and ask him if he can come down on it? It's a general crime. That's what they do in all the local governments: they see who's the cheapest, so they tell their friend, can you work at this price? All this has reached government level, level of borrowing. Serbia's Roads signed a contract on May 29th; on May 29th, the government sent a proposal to the Assembly to verify guarantees. That was Friday. How did you meet? This is where the entire government sat. When did you two meet, when did you talk? What's very indicative here? Croatia, as twice as small, has already made 400km of highways. How much did you make from 2001 to today? You open what Milosevic has opened five times, and when the elections, Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, all the machines move to the local self-government in which the elections are held. Today in Koserić you have more machines than on the Horgos-Novi Sad highway, more. Serbia is stuck to do it by Koseric, as Sunday's elections are. The people will know that they appreciate it. You're not the only ones, that's what all the authorities have been doing since 2001. The blame is on the government, and the merits, the day the elections are again to that government. Today, when we declare this guarantee, the media will announce that the ruling majority of the ZES has blown air into Serbia's lungs. Someone else has made debts, someone else has led them to bankruptcy, and you have, and Serbian President Boris Tadic will surely do a major interview on state television, tolls back to life. That's not true. You brought them to the beggar stick and now you're giving them crumbs. You're paying back your debts, and they have to start working again tomorrow. Will they be making debts tomorrow? It will. Because in this country, everything is on the line. Ask local self-government how many budgets they spent in advance, how many performers are working for free. They don't have the money to pay their salaries, and they can't stop working for local self-government, because it's the only investor who can get international loans. To whom, Mrs Dragutinovic, do banks lend loans today in Serbia? Local self-government. What kind of credit did they give our company? They won't give it to anyone. I don't know how you boxed this for "Serbian Roads," and if you boxed, why didn't you before? Why did you put them in such a difficult situation? What was the problem with providing these loans before? No, you've been waiting to see if he can get by without it, or maybe the government will fall, so he can keep another government's debt in his inheritance. Now that you're sure you're not allowed to part for another three years because you're screwed if you break up, now you're going to provide credit, so people don't go out into the streets. Who's gonna pay those loans back? This will bring Serbia back. What additional revenue will "Serbian Roads" have to pay off these loans? The grace period of one year will run until the palm of the palm of the hand, and five years is a short deadline for returning 175,000 euros, in conditions where every company that took the loan is a real loss, not because people are bad water, but because it is so designed to make losses, because you have, as you call it, special tasks (and Velimir Ilic said something about it). It is true that when a rink appears or when there is a basic accident, the MUP has the right to request that it be regulated immediately, but let's be honest and honest, how many times have you used special orders to do regular jobs, avoid tenders, bids and competition? The travellers are now in private hands. Where's the money from privatizing public enterprises, road companies, Užice, Kragujevac, Nis? Nis people say it was the strongest road company in Serbia. You're a bunch of troubles. You'll sort of calm down to public enterprises, and the rest of you will go bankrupt. This economy will soon be in bankruptcy. I can't be against making sure we pay the money to those we owe, who did something for that money, I don't know at what price. You have never informed us here whether there are fixed prices for works performed by tolls and that at these prices everyone can do, whether tenders and bids are held for each job, whether or not compensation for the companies that do so is fixed for maintenance during the winter period. A lot of things about the way the tolls are financed we don't know. If someone is respected in Serbia by an ordinary citizen, it's a toll. Wherein they see the way of the road, all of them rejoice; or they mend, or build new ones, or clean snow, that one may not stay obsessing. It's inhumane to put these people in a position not to receive wages. In other sectors that can't happen to you, other sectors go to the streets. Travelers don't go out on the streets. They consider themselves part of the state, and when the state owes them, it's like their mother owes them, so they can't get mad at their mother. You're using it terribly. You are giving them new orders, they are going into new borrowings; new elections are coming, the government should present itself as the one that works, which will raise and traffic in Serbia to the European level, and without money, Mr Mrkonjic knows. And the rebuilding of the country was often without money, so there was trouble. You want to build something, you want to rebuild something, there's no money, and then you overload it on the one who does, and then you tell him it's going to be. So it'll be in a year, in two, in five, and DOS remains in power, but ministers are being replaced, so they don't take those commitments from each other. We can't be against it, and we won't be in it; this is your job, finish it the way you started it. We'll be held back because I know you owe money to the poor. There are no rich people working in road companies. You've been in the rain all day, in the snow or in the sun; they're short-lived, they're short-lived, and when you get in the car and you walk that way, you forget them right away. If there's a crime in all this, and there's always crime in the roads, please tell us who's guilty and responsible, to finally bring criminals to court. Don't let the Home Secretary suggest new arrests, because that doesn't make any sense. He's not the minister's speaker. The minister needs to do his job. When police bring someone in, it should be a surprise to all of us, a quiet action, carried out properly, a man detained, evidence provided, not a minister saying, like Tito and Milosevic used to say, "there are criminals in this country", and now eight million people are afraid of whom the minister will arrest tomorrow. He's a little closer to setting a target. He said - some officials in local self-government. That applies to at least 10,000 people. This is the last time a law with four members, with no record of how much responsibility it is, comes before the National Assembly. Let me repeat something someone said before me: three billion euros, which you will not spend, I hope, but it will stand as a guarantee that we are a strong, solvent country, but to which interest goes, you took from the IMF not by asking the National Assembly. Compared to that, 175,000 euros is a small figure. You've made a big deal out of this to make the roadmen feel grateful when this is over today, and you don't say anything about that debt to the IMF. We don't deserve to know. Because who are we MPs to know that you took three billion euros? We need to know about 175,000 euros, the money that the tolls will get, in fact, that will go to banks that owe the tolls. They won't even see that money. They're starting again tomorrow without oil. If you find a way not to owe "Serbian Ways" -- they can't even make a profit, it's a public enterprise, but they don't owe at least -- then I'll say you did well with the tolls. This is how you created a disabled person, called "The Ways of Serbia", so that he destroys our road-building construction firms. As a boy, I went to Libya with such an enterprise to build a road. Don't let God invite us to Africa today, to the Middle East... In Peru, we built the Ciru-Pyura dam. If someone were to call us now, we'd only have pissed-off cars, and the directors would leave to see what kind of work these "lyr jets" are about, too, to go on a plane to see what kind of business they're dealing with. If we were to chase machines, people would laugh at us. Because of that, you have no opponent in us for these debts, but you have an opponent for borrowings that we don't know how much they cost, how they'll be returned and you have an opponent because you stopped building roads. I wish it was boiling on the Horgos - Požega highway now, where luck would have gone on that leg over Valjev that would have set foot in Kosjerić, so you might have won the elections, so across Užica you connected the entire Vojvodina again with that other highway. I wish you were building something. But if you can in any way remove the debts you've made, you, those before you... And for me, you've all been DOS in the last nine years, and I'm sorry that some parties got involved, and I don't count on them in DOS, but what do we do? So, if this is the way to take something off your conscience, I'm with it consensually, I'm just saying it, the contract is a shrub, the contract is for small children, the contract doesn't provide enough information that your MPs, who here have to vote, are convinced they're doing a good thing. We'll be held back in voting day, but surely we won't let you treat this as your big success in the media performances. This is how you wash your cheek with water, even without soap, for what you've done so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-01-0.u21458	The word is from MP Boris Aleksic, an authorised representative of the SRS parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-01-0.u21459	Mrs. Comic, ladies and gentlemen, the honourable citizens of the Republic of Serbia, representatives of the Serbian government, as has already been said, before us two draft laws are united at one point: the proposal for a guarantee law of the Republic of Serbia in favour of Unicredit Bank of Serbia a.d. Belgrade under the responsibility of the Public Enterprise "The Ways of Serbia", which our country and our citizens are in charge of an additional 75,000 euros, as well as the proposal for a law on the granting of a guarantee from the Republic of Serbia for the benefit of the "Society Generale", Paris, France, means foreign borrowing, under the responsibility of the JP "The Roads of Serbia", which our country and our citizens are in charge of an additional 100,000 euros. Just to remind you, at the previous session, so last week, you voted one set of laws that our citizens are in charge of additionally, and I'm going to specify which laws and figures are in question. The first is the Law on Confirmation of the Loan Agreement (Programme Loan for the Development of the Private and Financial Sector) between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which you have entrusted to Serbian citizens for 34,900,000 euros. The second law is the Law confirming a financial contract between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank for the project Clinical Centres/B, which is responsible for an additional 70,000,000 euros. So it happened last week. Finally, the third law is the Law confirming the Financial Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank (Land for General and Regional Infrastructure), which is responsible for 50,000 euros. Congratulations, because you have just (in a negative sense of course) exceeded the external debt held by the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, Tito. Approximately, the debt has now exceeded $30 billion, only at that time it has paid off 22 million people, and now it's paying off about 8 million people, so you figure out what the burden is on our citizens' backs and what's going to happen. You remember those three billion euros from the IMF. When it comes to these bill proposals, they are truly disastrous. First, they show one disrespect for the Serbian government for the National Assembly and for the MPs. Mrs Dragutinović, whom we respect, has read the data here regarding the interest rate. You know what, you have to deliver those contracts to us. The fact that you've read that interest is one month's Eurobor plus four and some percentage margin, that doesn't mean anything. Let's see how the interest counts. Let's see what the extra costs are. Let's see if in these contracts, i.e. in contracts that have not been delivered to us, there are green interest rates and green clauses that certain commercial banks have introduced in granting loans to the population, which I will talk about later. So, commercial banks, business banks operating in the territory of the Republic of Serbia have introduced in their loan agreements to the population of the green clause and green interest rates; interest rates can increase 100%, and a hundred times and two hundred times, which is against the law. I remind you that even in Roman law, it was forbidden to apply green interest rates. Let's start in a row. So, the law on granting guarantees from the Republic of Serbia in favour of Unicredit Banka Serbia a.d. Belgrade, according to the Public Enterprise "The Ways of Serbia". So it's a Unicredit Bank that's registered as a stock company in Belgrade. So, conditionally speaking, the Serbian bank, as a domestic company, is registered. I'm saying this because the next law is related to the "Societ General", it's about their headquarters in Paris. So, the bill envisions that the Republic of Serbia assumes the obligation to settle as a guarantee the obligations of the Public Enterprise "The Ways of Serbia" Belgrade, according to Unicredit Banka Serbia a.d. Belgrade, in a dinar equivalent of 75,000 euros. It is not disputed why it stands here in dinar equivalentness – because it approves of the Serbian stock company; it returns in the same way, at the heart rate of the National Bank of Serbia on the day of reconciliation of commitments, increased by the amount of agreed interest, fees and other real costs. What interest? What fees? What other real expenses? There's a plan to pay off later. We want to see the payment plan. The payment plan is exactly what the interest is. Ladies and gentlemen, when you pay off the bank's loan, you pay the interest first, then the principal. Let's see what the exact amount of that interest is. "The guarantee provided for in Article 1 of this Act is issued by the Republic of Serbia (hereinafter referred to as "guarantee") in favour of Unicredit Bank Serbia a.d., on behalf of the obligations under the Treaty on Long-term Purpose Loan No. 0778/09 concluded between the Public Enterprise "The Ways of Serbia", Belgrade, as a debtor and Unicredit Bank of Serbia a.d. Belgrade, as a confidant, on 29 May 2009. “ We want to see this contract too. If you have this contract, Mrs Dragutinović, I would ask you to give professional services to copy it and deliver it to the MPs, that this be, as you say, a transparent, literal translation of that word would be – transparent, and we would say clear. "The repayment of the loan is carried out by the Public Enterprise "The Ways of Serbia", Belgrade (hereinafter "the debtor") at the expense of Unicredit Bank Serbia a.d. Belgrade, according to the payment plan, in the amount that includes the principal and the calculated interest. “ So we want you to deliver the payment plan, as well, necessarily. "The funds for the repayment of the loan will be provided by the debtor from his own income. “ Article 4: “If, on the basis of a guarantee, the guarantor fulfils the obligation instead of the debtors, he has the right to return principal, interest, compensation and other costs of borrowing arising from non-execution, i.e. untimely execution of the obligations, as well as any other costs incurred in connection with the execution of obligations in place of the debtor, up to the amount of the settled obligation, as well as the right to charge from the debtor the billed statutoryly tightened interest. “ Now the state of Serbia will take a tight interest on its own. That's a great solution. "Right to recover the funds referred to in Article 1(1) of this Article will be realised by initiating payment from the debtor's account on the basis of the powers of debtors or other security instruments," let's see what security instruments are, "in accordance with the rules governing payment traffic. “ So, all these elements, all the essential elements of the loan contract, you have to deliver to us. It is not enough to say – interest is a one-month eurobor plus 4.05, as already, percent. "This law takes effect the next day from the day of its publication in the Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia. "It's common to be on the eighth day, and you here are in a hurry to "Serbia's Ways"... It's a shame that our infrastructure is the way it is, we need to help them, really, but look how fast you are in this bill. I read it, it's a very short bill, but you see, these five members, they're potentially harmful to the Republic of Serbia and to the citizens, because they don't reveal all the details that matter. So if a banker got a document like this, believe me, he'd rip it up, he wouldn't take it into consideration at all. Without essential elements, you can't work. Reason, constitutional and legal basis for the adoption of the law – Public Debt Act, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Well, it's in these laws, in the relevant laws, that you have all the details of the bank's credit to specify, deliver, and everything has to be clear. Simply, one who accepts someone's debt, who gives a guarantee of someone's debt or one who owes it has to know exactly what the amount of that debt is, there's no dispute. It's always been like that for centuries. Reasons for the adoption of the law – here you again state the contract since 29 May 2009, the Loan Treaty. We're asking you to deliver that contract. You say, "Issuing guarantees from the Republic of Serbia to business banks of 75,000 euros to refinance the commitments achieved" – here you use the word "refunding" – "the public enterprise of the Serbian Roads". In the end, in the 6th point, you are again referring to that contract between the debtor and the "Uncredited Bank", and we do not have the contract in front of us. Once again, I'm telling you, you really need to deliver this contract, these are some rules that are defined by law, and you can't play with it, especially not in the National Assembly, especially when you're in charge of Serbian citizens. The next draft law on the granting of a guarantee from the Republic of Serbia in favour of the "Societ Generale", Paris, France, under the responsibility of the JP "Serb Roads". The Republic of Serbia undertakes, under Article 1, to settle the obligations of the JP "Serb Roads", Belgrade, under the responsibility of the "Societ Generale", Paris, France, amounting to 100m euros, increased by the amount of agreed interest, fees and other real costs. Here you are in charge of the French bank "Societ Generale", not the "Societ Generale" a. d. Belgrade. That's why you're getting the Euros, that's why you're returning the Euros. Are you going to turn the Kuwaiti dinars into Euros or something, so that you can return and how you return, they don't care, they're interested in getting this back to them. We are interested in exactly how much interest is expressed, what are the fees, other costs and the payment plan, too, to deliver, because we owe our country and citizens 100m euros here. "The guarantee referred to in Article 1 of this Act is issued by the Republic of Serbia (hereinafter: guarantee) in favour of the "Societ Generale", Paris, France, on behalf of the obligation of the Credit Treaty No 126/09 concluded between the JP "Roads of Serbia", Belgrade, as a debtor, "Societ Generale", Paris, France, as a confidant... “ – here you lack the bond “and”, but it doesn’t matter, so we want this loan contract number 126/09 – “... and "Societte Generale Bank of Serbia", a.d. Belgrade, as a trustee. "The payment of credit is made by the JP "The Ways of Serbia", Belgrade (hereinafter referred to as the debtor) at the expense of the "Societ Generale", Paris, France. “ So he goes straight back to France. "The funds for the repayment of the loan will be provided by the debtor from his own income. The debtor is obliged to provide the funds for the payment of the loan according to the payment plan, in the amount which includes the principal and the interest charged. “ We have a capital of 100 million euros, let’s see what the interest is. Here is the article 4: “If, on the basis of a guarantee, the guarantor fulfils the obligation instead of the debtors, he has the right to recover the principal, interest, compensation and other costs of borrowing arising from non-execution, i.e. the untimely execution of obligations, as well as all other costs incurred in connection with the execution of obligations instead of debtors, up to the level of the amount of the settled obligation, as well as the right to charge from the debtor the billed legally tightened interest. “ Again, the Republic of Serbia from the Republic of Serbia, practically. "The right to recover the funds referred to in Article 1(1) shall be realised by initiating payment from the debtor's account on the basis of the powers conferred on the debtor or other security instruments, in accordance with the rules governing payment traffic. “ Also, under Article 5, this law enters into force the next day since the day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". So he's in a hurry here, too. I don't see why. The previous law states that loans are only due in November, according to the report in June. But let's move on. So, again, you state the constitutional and legal basis. In the previous case, I have pointed out that the laws you quote are now regulated by such elements of the contract and prescribe that all elements of the contract must be clearly and precisely stated. Of course, whoever gives the guarantee is in the interest of having a contract in front of him, to see the loan contract, the refinancing contract, the reprogramming contract, whatever it is, so he sees exactly what it is, especially us MPs, because we have a responsibility to the citizens of Serbia. They're in charge, they're gonna pay for this. The reason for the adoption of the law - again states this contract concluded on 18 May 2009. Please provide us with a copy of that contract. You also say in point 2's final statement: "Issuing the guarantee of the Republic of Serbia to business banks worth 100,000 euros to refinance the achieved commitments of JP "The Ways of Serbia" is provided for in Article 3. Budget law. “ You have here an explanation of the basic legal institutes: “Article 1. The bill stipulates that the Republic of Serbia must assume the obligation as a guarantee to meet the obligations of the Public Enterprise "The Ways of Serbia" under the responsibility of the "Societ Generale", Paris, France, amounting to 100m euros. “ This is what we specified, that it is a foreign bank based in Paris. So the exact same reasons for both bill proposals, so there's no need for me to read them again. Look what's the problem now, Mrs Dragutinovic: we don't have a loan contract in front of us. So I can't see what's in that contract. I thank you for dictated to us, approximately, how much interest it is, in terms of one month of euribor plus margin. Be careful what happens to the loan clauses that are approved by the population in Serbia – you noticed, and the media wrote that certain banks, regardless of how Eurobor as a reference interest rate has fallen, have increased credit rates. Now the question is, on what basis are they increased, because there is no legal basis for such a thing. The press didn't process it until the end, they probably didn't get the chance, they'll process it. They have come to the conclusion that sellers - bankers are increasing the margin. However, the question is raised on the basis of which they increase the margin and whether this loan can increase the margin in the same way, since certain commercial banks have inserted into the loans granted to the population the clauses that allow them to do so, to raise the margin plus infinitely. Let's see what the media says. The "Blic" said on 27th that eight banks have increased the margins on repayment loans due to the reputation risk of banks. I don't want to read what banks they are, it doesn't matter. It's interesting that the NBS started to survey, maybe taking over Cesid's role, to survey banks. "The National Bank of Serbia conducted three surveys from October 2008 to April 2009 asking banks to inform it whether loans in use and to pay will increase its margin." The National Bank of Serbia controls the work of business commercial banks operating in Serbia's territory. If these banks increase the illegal margin, then the NBS must apply the measures. If the NBS won't do it, then you, as the Government of the Republic of Serbia, must take action. Why? Because a citizen who pays the war 100 euros tomorrow could be at 110, 120 or 150 euros. So there are certain problems that are not related to the variable part of the interest rate eurobor or library. Libor is tied to a Swiss franc and is determined by five leading London banks, as well as a reference interest rate. The text, published by Blic, further said: "The National Bank of Serbia has announced that such bank polls will be conducted at least once every six months and will inform the public about the results, so that citizens have insight into how much banks, just at the time of the financial crisis that has led to significant changes in the price of money and capital, adhere to good business practices." So instead of protecting the interests of citizens, the credit user, the National Bank of Serbia will conduct surveys. Secondly, the NBS is responsible for what the dinar has weakened. The moment 50% of the bank's mandatory reserves were released, all banks that have foreign centrals transferred and freed foreign exchanges for the resolution of the crisis in the west, and, of course, the dinar weakened. Pay attention, NBS is very manipulative. There's that possibility. I'd like to invite you to an experience that has a system of federal reserves, the central bank of the United States, which is a private institution. About what they're doing, you have an analysis of the world's leading economists, including those who won the Nobel Prize. He also conveyed "The Voice of the Public" that the Eurybor is falling, and the wars are growing. He says: “Since October of last year, when the Eurybor had a record value, interest has fallen by as much as 72.72%. This should be good news for the bank's clients, however, as lenders have decided to turn cheaper capital into a higher profit, citizens continue to pay off equally high monthly wars. “ It is later added that some wars are even increased. So, if the eurobor fell, it had to be a loan war. If the euro was halved, it had to be halved in that part and the loan war. What did the commercial banks actually do, so that you could pass it on to Governor Jelasic, where to look? Although, since we have expert NBS inspectors, I think they've established it. However, Governor Jelasic has discretionary powers to act according to the NBS inspector's report – he can choose to apply the measures the inspector proposes or not to apply, and should not be so, especially when it comes to breaking the law. It doesn't matter what bank it is. I'm not going to violate any bank's reputation risk, just before the banks hire a large number of our citizens. Our wish is to be as many employees in Serbia as possible, not to get people fired. Of course, and that employment should be defined in accordance with the Labour Act. The banks have entered into their loan contracts, among other things, and the following clause: XY reserves the right to change the interest rate, i.e. the bank can, until the final settlement of all credit-user obligations under this contract, without the conclusion of a specific annex, change the interest rate rate rate from the previous position in accordance with the bank's special policy acts that regulate the level and method of calculating interest. To translate into Serbian, they are talking about the margin here, because the eurobor cannot change, the eurobor is defined elsewhere, as well as the library. Euribor, therefore the reference interest rate on euro loans, replaced national reference interest rates among the first-class banks on 1 January 1999. Citizens have the possibility to monitor the state of euribor on the Internet address www.euibor.org, can be informed accurately and precisely... (Chairman: National MP, 20 minutes.) The time at your disposal as an authorised representative has been used. Can I have another minute if there's no one after me? (President: One more minute, please. One more minute. Thank you. Libor - interest rate on the short-term interbank market in London at which banks offer each other money. Libor is a reference interest rate and, as I said, it is defined by five major London banks. Citizens can monitor the state of the library at www.bba.org. The site is in the United Kingdom, that is, England. I wanted to point out and highlight these important details that are related to the interest rate. So I ask you, first, to deliver those loan contracts to us, and secondly, to check what's going on with the NBS, regarding these green clauses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-01-0.u21460	Do any of the other presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? No, I don't. Do any of the promoters want a word? No, I don't. In that case, I would like to inform you that, pursuant to Article 93(4), they are Article 4 The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, until the opening of a joint principled search for a written word, with a number of MPs, submitted parliamentary groups: G17 plus, MP group LDP, MP group Advanced Serbia, SRS parliamentary group. In order, and according to the statements of the word, the first has the word of MP Jovan Nesovic; after him, MP Slobodan Maras.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-01-0.u21461	The Honorable Chairman, respected gentlemen of ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs, is ahead of us today, in this time of crisis, two important laws, two laws confirming guarantees against two business banks, which are the "Sosite General Bank" and "Uncredit Bank", where our Public Enterprise "Serbian Roads" is in charge of a total amount of 175,000 euros, and is tasked to settle debts towards enterprises for roads from all over Serbia for completed rehabilitation work, rehabilitation, road construction, from earlier years ago. What's important at the beginning is to say that this debt did not occur during this government. The finance minister also said the debt was created earlier; in 2006, when the Serbian Roads company was formed, it was nine billion, at the end of 2006, 21 billion, in 25 and at the end of 2008. What is important and what should be discussed at the outset is whether or not this debt is justified. On the one hand, we have to admit that 2004, 2005, even this year, we are in the condition of Serbia's roads, or I'm talking about the travel economy... Honestly, the roads aren't as high as we'd like. Investment is needed to raise the quality of the roads to a higher level, to get new roads and, ultimately, to discuss traffic safety a few days ago, the safety of traffic on Serbia's roads would be better. On the other hand, all those involved in politics know that in earlier times, the company "The Ways of Serbia" was part of a campaign of individual political parties and a means to achieve the political goals of individual political parties. I sincerely believe that these times are behind us and that it will never happen again that the company "The Ways of Serbia" is a means to achieve certain political goals, which means to win certain votes. What is also important to stress at this point is that these debts of the state must be settled. He's got to calm them down for a few reasons. One thing is that our companies can't do the job they're formed for right now, which is maintenance of roads. When we talk about companies that are performers, they have claims from the Public Enterprise and can no longer be in debt with business banks, and therefore have no funds for winter maintenance, which means buying salt, risols and anything needed for winter maintenance, as well as summers, which is bitumen and other things that are important for the construction and rehabilitation of roads. On the other hand, as soon as they took credit from the business banks of the travel firm, they have their own problems, which means that the question is whether they can pay the salaries, which are important for their workers. Furthermore, contractors are needed by companies when making roads or when rehabilitating roads; as soon as they have no income from the Public Enterprise, they cannot pay their entrepreneurs. You've got one big incompetence chain. That knot must break at some point. I think this is a good way to break that knot right now. It has been honestly said that "Serbian Roads" received this much debt, so it was mentioned that at one point, in order to reach an agreement with the IMF, the state had predicted five billion, so it withdrew five billion, etc.Some finance ministers have been charged. I just want to remind you of the simple thing: at the beginning of 2006, the debt was nine billion, and at the end of 2006, it was 21 billion; in 2006, a 12 billion debt was made, and we should remember that 2006 was the election year and then the biggest debt was made. On the other hand, Mr Dinkic was not a draftr of the 2007 budget. If we remember, he left the government in October of 2006. Therefore, we cannot accuse Mr Dinkic of being guilty of not paying five billion in the account of "The Way of Serbia", something was taken off due to an agreement with the IMF. After all, we MPs need to be correct, especially when we criticise. Well, MPs from those parliamentary groups voted in favour of the 2007 budget. Why did they release the budget, they were part of the ruling coalition, for 2007 if it mattered to those five billion? It's very important at this point to say that you can't blame yourself on some people who really aren't the main culprits of this debt. In addition to something strange happening in connection with road construction, and there is the minister of infrastructure, I will repeat what is written in several daily newspapers -- that for the Horgos-Pozega concession, which has been broken, it was predicted that a kilometer of highway through Vojvodina cost 2m euros. When procurement was made, the same firm, Alpina - Por, predicted 700,000 euros for a kilometer of highway, if I am not mistaken, through Vojvodina. They didn't get it. They got our companies for six hundred and some thousand euros. It's really a little weird that in a year, even though the crisis is, you have, the maltene, a triple difference in the construction of kilometers from the same firm. It seems to me that it's a space where the state authorities need to work a little bit, see what makes it so different. What I'm saying is that the talks on the settlement of these debts started, if I'm not mistaken, during the past government. And the Traffic and Connection Committee has devoted one session to it. It is also important to me that what Ms. Finance said, that public procurement by the "Serb Road" was fully implemented and that all business banks operating in Serbia's territory could participate in offering this loan; that the best offer was the Societte General Bank and that their interest was euroribor plus 4.5%, and that the second bank, Unicredit, had a more unfavourable offer, and returned to this offer of "The Sossite General Bank". I have only one objection to the promoter – this could at least be put into the context of this bill. Your oral explanation at the assembly session is personal enough for me, but I accept that, for the sake of the public and for the MPs, it should have been put into the law's reasoning. It's just a few more sentences, and I think that would be just fine. What is also important, Article 4 of both laws says that the Public Enterprise "Serb Roads" should repay this debt. It is important at this point to see if the Public Enterprise "The Ways of Serbia", with this kind of business, can really repay this debt. The state certainly pays back those debts ratified by agreements with the international credit institutions of the European Investment Bank, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the World Bank, for rehabilitation, maintenance and road construction. It seems to me that the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Infrastructure and the management of the "Road of Serbia" will have to seriously take care to see if the "Serb Roads" for a year, as long as the grace period lasts, can recover this loan from its original revenues. I know that the original revenues of the Road of Serbia are revenue from toll, revenue from the part of the excise on fuel, and it is good that the percentage that is allocated for the travel economy, i.e. for the "Roads of Serbia" is higher than it was before, as well as their income relating to the accession of commercial facilities to regional, highways and highways. As I recall, "Serbian Roads" have about 50 billion revenues annually. I think there must be a solution to refinance their debt on their own, and for the state to be, and for us to give ratification today, or to vote on this law, guaranteed; if there happens to be some disturbances, the state must at that time, so that society in general does not have a negative impact, to settle this debt to business banks. Also, the Ministry of Infrastructure and the "Serbian Ways" must make sure that this does not endanger the ongoing business of "The Way of Serbia". Corridor 10 and some other directions will be built out of loans that the state will withdraw from foreign creditors, foreign business banks, but we must take care of the ongoing maintenance of highways, highways and regional roads. It must be taken into account that the excessive burden of "The Way of Serbia" does not lead to our travel network failing, and we know, if it fails more, that later on, we will have to allocate a lot of money, and I am sure that the state is not so rich. On the other hand, we have passed the Traffic Safety Act; the ongoing activity "The Road of Serbia" must be higher, because if you have more rigorous penalties and policies towards drivers, then you must have the quality of the travel network. It is important that the ongoing "The Way of Serbia" activity is not at all to be questioned. In the end, I would ask the minister to return to the beginning, never again to be the political tool of individual parties to achieve political goals, which means to win votes. We all know, it's important to have an asphalt road in every village, it's important to have quality streets, it's important to have quality roads, but we can't, in order to get votes, make debts, and then after a while, those debts will be financed by someone else. We have to finance them now that they're times of crisis, and this is one of the deepest crises, not just with us, but in the world. Looking at all this, the G17 Group of MPs plus in voting day will support these two draft laws. I hope that for the debt that remains, up to 27-28 billion, the government, the Ministry and the "Serbian Ways" will find a solution to fund it, and that after a few months or a year, we have a healthy company, which will be proud of the government, as well as states as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-01-0.u21462	The word has been made by the People's MP, Free Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-01-0.u21463	The Honorable Presidency, Mr. Minister, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is no wonder that, as the first in principle debate, an MP from G 17, or Mr. Nesovic, appeared, because the way this law came before us, that is, its essence, tells me who is the creator of this law. We had such exhibitions – when you have one big one, which holds a monopoly, so it is due to all suppliers, then a law is passed to enable suppliers to obtain favourable loans. So now we've come into a situation that a public enterprise for which, you'll allow me to quote the predecessor, the debt didn't come during this government, and that's an excuse, enough for this government... So, for a public enterprise that has as much debt as its guarantee, a state appears. Gentlemen of the ruling majority, it would be nice to once, but once, we hear who's responsible. Who's responsible for the public enterprise having a debt like this? Who is responsible for opening the works on the Horgos - Novi Sad highway 28th time? Who's responsible for the fact that there's no one there, Mr. Grouchy, but the other three machines, one house and one man who says, are gone, and they're going to take this too? Who's responsible for this? Come on, for once. It's not like that, pal. It's the easiest way to get off your shoulders, but I think we're all interested in who's responsible. Of course I don't think you're responsible, God forbid, but someone is. Someone made such a debt, not in this public enterprise, but in other public enterprises. Who suffers the consequences, Mrs Dragutinovic? Citizens. Let's find out who's responsible for something once. You just before, Mr. Nesovicu, were great at noticing – our paths are a disaster and, of course, they should be better. And that's closely related to our arrival on the white Schengen list. As 90% of citizens did not come out of this country and did not see how normal life can be seen, so 90% of citizens did not see the roads that exist just a hundred miles from Belgrade or Novi Sad, as much as they invest in infrastructure, and they do not open in every election campaign, five times at the beginning and finally, the work on those highways. We're always talking about Corridor 10, and it's great, we all can't wait for the work on that road to live, to get that path to work, that is, that Corridor 10 in full capacity is starting to work. But I'm afraid it's always going to be the same problem - someone's making debts, we don't know who's making debts, the state will guarantee. I fully respect the story of my colleague Alexic, who asked how much interest is there; these are all issues that are very important, but I think it is a key and basic question, so let's start from the beginning – who made such a debt? That, unfortunately, is not the only public enterprise under government authority and that a huge debt has been made. You told me the other day how to work on the highway from Novi Sad to Beograd. On the bridge of Beška, behind you is my colleague Goca Komic, let's say, for three years there's something going on, but no holes are patched up. You get the impression that there's something going on and there's nothing going on. Same holes exist on that highway. What am I saying that for? Of course you have a desire to patch up all those holes, build a new bridge, build a real highway, etc. and that Serbia should be a country that binds the south and west, the north, as you will, Europe, but the prerequisite for all of this is that we know who did the damage and that it fits. I said it wasn't the only public company and I have to go back to a public company owned by the Republic of Serbia by January 1st, to NIS. Madam Minister, I have a direct question for you, and I ask a direct answer – is if the final bill delivered shows a loss, which is already 100m euros, to the extent that it is bid in public, this way will change the stake in NIS, as it is speculated, or will the Russian partner become an even higher percentage of NIS owner? I'm interested in who's gonna be responsible. We all know, I know, you know, everyone in their life who's been doing business, what the audit looks like, and especially the audit. It will show that a liter is a liter, that it is a kilo, that it is an ad – an ad. The point is who made the decisions to spend that kind of money. We're interested in the essence, the structure of these decisions, how such a loss occurred. I suppose if we were to scratch into the Public Enterprise Roads so we could see something the same. Someone has to deal with it, but, unfortunately, the State Audit Institute can't handle it. The fact that they do not have enough employees, I believe they do not have any will, are entertained by the final account of the Government of the Republic of Serbia for the previous year, according to them. But who will control, in the interest of the state, public enterprises, so let's see the structure of the decisions that have been made, who has made such decisions, because there is a legitimate concern that the ownership structure in NIS will change and that the Russian partner will become an even greater percentage of the NIS owner. The gentleman sitting next to you, the Energy Minister, two days before that says we're no longer deciding on the price of fuel, says he didn't say that, to say again tomorrow that he has to jump the price of oil processing by 20 and I don't know how much at 50 and I don't know how much. Whose interests is he defending? I'm sorry he's not here right now, but I have to say it. Whose interests are he defending? Someone in the government? Does it defend the interests of the state of the Republic of Serbia and its citizens or defend the interests of some other state company, which is under the government's patronage? We have very important questions, which we need to get answers to, and because of you as finance minister, which next year will be able to propose a budget such as that, under much less pressure, when we clear things up. You'll be under less pressure. That's for sure. You will always be able to stand behind every decision you make, but in this way – that we know that there are problems, that there are debts, that we know that there are culprits, but no one can say who the culprits are, what led to that, perhaps objective circumstances; let's hear what it is. How can one company be as in charge as "Serbia's Ways"? Who made the decisions, in what way? I have to repeat, because of citizens above all, Serbia's oil industry was on the 20th list of companies in Europe in October for profit. What happened in two months? I have to be honest, I hope my daughter isn't watching this, I don't believe in Santa Claus, and I know that Harry Potter doesn't exist. Who is this wizard who managed to destroy such a public enterprise in two or three months? I don't think it's a fairy tale, it's a crime and someone has to answer for it. We talked about when there was budget rebalance here, when there was a 2009 budget, and that rebalancing before that, when we talked about it -- don't raise your pensions, it's going to be counterproductive or at least not linear; so we asked you to save in the 2009 budget, when the rebalancing came, we said -- okay, we're solid, we can take the weight of the crisis that shakes our country. What's more important to citizens than how many kilos of meat they're going to have a week for a meal is justice, that someone once is responsible for what they've done. You yourself know how many times we have been prepared to talk and share responsibility with you as finance minister, when it comes to economic measures, and with Prime Minister Cvetkovic himself. We wanted to help; we gave the programs, every time we were ready to talk and to find the best solution. We're not just here to criticize, but let's once know who's responsible for what. I know it's not this government, when it comes to "Serbia's Ways". When it comes to NIS, I hope soon to know who was giving orders to do what was done; to do the republican budget and to melt all the profits from previous years and to lose now, God forbid, the percentage of the property. Please, just one answer – do you have any information about whether there is a possibility of changing the ownership relationship in the NIS by showing that the Serbia Oil Industry has been doing business with a loss, and with an extremely large loss? Please, simple answer, when you're in a position to give it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-01-0.u21464	The LDP parliamentary group is available for another four and a half minutes. National MP Jovan Nesovic, right on line.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-01-0.u21465	Thank you, Chairman, I don't want to delay much, I think they misunderstood me. As far as G 17 plus and myself are concerned, and I am in favour of finding responsibility for which the "Serb Roads" are at a loss of 28 billion dinars, and as a MP, I have doubts as to why they are at risk and who they are guilty of, but if you speak in the National Assembly, then you must have relevant, accurate facts. Therefore, I expect the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Infrastructure, and it seems to me that some other authorities in this country have gone into triangulation, which is why this kind of debt comes out with a clear idea of why the debts are 28 billion and I expect someone to answer for it. I took advantage of Mr. Mrkonjic's presence to ask something I don't understand, what I read in the newspaper about the construction of the highway – why did the same firm that had a concession agreement for a kilometer offer of 2m euros and when was the public tender of 700,000 euros? There's something not clear to me. I really expect the authorities to deal with it. In the end, we can be against these ratifications at this point, but what do we get? We have a debt, a debt will have to be settled, and we get a simple thing – that we have full liquidity not only of travel companies, but also of companies that are tied to Zaputar companies. Therefore, to be honest, responsibility should be determined, and at this point it is important that the passenger companies stand on their feet and that companies can work uninterrupted during the next period.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-01-0.u21466	The word has a folk MP, Jorvanka Tabakovic, followed by Boris Aleksic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-01-0.u21467	Fellow MPs, respected citizens, I have so many objections to these two guarantees that, believe me, honestly, I don't know where to begin. I'll start with what the definition of guarantee is at all. There are many economists with sound titles, long experience, but everyone will agree that the bank guarantee belongs to other non-credit jobs and that it is a neutral banking business and that, in principle, when you call something a bank guarantee, you do not immediately claim that you will have to pay off that guarantee because it will fall on your burden. In principle, by definition and by all the liquids of bank guarantees, it is so, only you write to us immediately in the explanation that the budget will provide funds for the return of these guarantees and in Article 1, where you define this law, by telling us that as a guarantee, you will settle the liabilities of the Public Enterprise of Serbia, instead of saying that if the debtor, and that is the Public Enterprise of Serbia, does not settle the obligations towards the business bank that gave him credit, then the state will do so. Already from such a defined guarantee, i.e. an agreement under this guarantee, the state has accepted part of its responsibility for this situation in the travel economy, in the Public Enterprise "The Ways of Serbia". What worries me above all is that bad practice continues – the surface of the bill and the taking of financial commitments. This country can be superficial (and its representatives) when it is presented in some optional forums, when it speaks of itself and the way it exercises power, but here, when you lend us 175,000 euros, this is simply unacceptable. We got a verbal explanation of the terms of the loan from Madam Minister. You know, Madam Minister, we appreciate you very much because when you file a budget for each of the project loans, each of the inherited commitments are time-limits, terms, interest and the intended return. Here you ordinarily presented to us what a loan contract is based on which this guarantee arises. Based on your oral explanation, which I have no reason to doubt, we have also received several oral arguments about the structure of the debt. My colleague Jovan Nesovic, whom I personally highly appreciate, presented his oral knowledge of the debt structure. Earlier minister, Mr. Velja Ilic, also presented his oral reasoning of the debt structure. These are all the impressions that will be recorded in this stenogram, which someone will open or not open, journalists will comment whether or not, but this is not how the state is guided, so the justification for the guarantee is not delivered to MPs that you also respect the Serbian Parliament, who should make this clear. This isn't a subject that's become urgent overnight. On the subject of debt to the tollers, the subject of the inherited commitments of the Public Enterprise "The Ways of Serbia" is very intensively spoken of, as far as I know, at least since May of last year. I will remind you of the statement made by the Minister of Finance, current Prime Minister Cvetkovic, who said that the business "The way of Serbia", I quote, "is covered with darkness and that an audit house, a certain consultant, will be engaged, will provide us with the right information about it". Now I ask on behalf of all of us – why should we waste time in the congregation to talk today? Chad says he left a billion debts, as vice president at the time. Someone else says -- that's when it was eight billion. Who believes that? Is the word of one word to another or, whatever, the revision or the report of some serious house would be a serious enough basis for us to know what debts are and what are, above all, I want to make a difference, the handovers of the works for what has been approved by the budget, prescribed, which is legally agreed, what has been defined as maintenance of roads, and not that we are today meeting with the definition that someone has falsified... We even have such a record of a budget inspection, that one of the directors falsified financial reports he covered up, and then we have a statement from Mr. Ilic that he was ordered to do so. He says, I say, they say – that's not how the state works. Let him who did this bear responsibility or praise if he did right or wrong. In order for me to make a decision on this, I must not be the only reason to cut the debt knot and that liquidity chain, which clearly exists in the travel economy and which we really need to cut, but cannot just be a good intention and a big problem that doesn't need to be a reason to make a decision. So to decide on these guarantees, we had to have a review report. How objective would she be... Maybe again, as a petty one, we'd find some objections, and maybe we wouldn't. If, for example, I have a report that in 2005, the revision of "Hemofarma" worked "Deloitte & Touche", while as chairman of the Management Board at Hemofarm, Danko Djunic, it is not enough for me to explain that he is the Honorary President of Hemofarma, because, according to international (and adopted) standards, this person would be considered a connected person, so we could suspect such an audit. So we might have some objections to the revision, but it wouldn't be motivated by any descriptive estimates, any personal relationship, or, God forbid, by demanding that we harm political competition, no, but only by arguments. You know that when a company has to pay taxes and doesn't use loans, then it asks the auditor to do a report on as small incomes as possible to pay as little taxes as possible. You'll agree with me that that's why the tax administration doesn't use these audit reports as a starting point when it does an estimate of tax revenues, but companies that use credits tend to make up their business results to make it easier to get credit. So it's possible that such an audit report may be the subject of our grudges or objections, but in any case, it's necessary here, just as it was necessary and to give us an insight into the loan agreement. Because if you're letting us ratify a guarantee that's only given at a basic price, without interest, belonging to the costs and other accompanying costs that follow the basic duty, it's really not correct. I admit that you've changed the budget rebalancing part of the guarantee, where you've foreseen 20 billion dinars in your budget, from which you will issue guarantees to finance your liabilities. Now I want to ask if another ratification of a similar guarantee awaits us, because, in the rebalancing of this base, the ratification of the commitments made by the Public Enterprise "The Ways of Serbia", as a debt to our business banks, you envisioned, in addition to these two, another amount of sixty million euros, i.e. 5,700,000 dinars, so the total guarantees of the state should come out at 22,325,000? So we're expecting another guarantee. You commended the Sosite General as a bank that gave more favourable terms than others, but I simply cannot compare if you do not give me additional notice and answer one question about these two guarantees. The 100m-euro guarantee given to the "Sosite General Bank" is the one to be paid by the Public Enterprise "The Ways of Serbia," but in euros, you presented it more favourable. The second guarantee is for 75,000 euros, but in dinar equivalent (the national bank's average rate). Every citizen will understand me – if you write that you will settle... And this is not a real guarantee, it was my basic remark, it was a kind of forced guarantee loan. If you return one to the dinars, on the middle course on the day of your return, and you return the other to the euro, and if you do not have the euro, or the Public Enterprise "Serbian Roads", than it has to buy them (and it must buy them in a shopping course and this purchase course is always higher than the middle course), the question is which of these two guarantees have given us more favourable business banks? I wonder if these 100m euros of credit, a guarantee that settles the obligation towards the Public Enterprise "The Ways of Serbia", i.e. by road, touch foreign reserves in any way? When you said this was more favourable, would you take from what we already have? Believe my concern isn't motivated - the question, so you answer, so we're worried as politicians... If I read in the last issue of "Nin" that the Apathian brewery starts importing its two new brands from Belgium at the end of May, beer, I will be seriously concerned, like all citizens, that what is called the payment deficit, which we have in exchange, will be burdened by what was once a success, which is the arrival of a foreign investor, which ceases to produce and start importing. If you return this guarantee to the euro, then there's a little bit of foreign reserves there, how we're going to keep those three billion from the IMF, not to touch them, which is a guarantee for our foreign reserve and for which we all need to repeat -- how you should be in charge and that the budget returns interest for that loan, which stands as a nice vase in the window, because it's not free, no credit is free, and it's not money to keep, even as in that advertisement where the money is sleeping, because that sleep is paid. I'm curious to see how you look at the duties that the foreign exchange reserves are going to come in any way in danger. And economic policy is still not motivated by the increase in our exports, which is the only possibility that we can get out of the situation we're in. So these two guarantees show that the state has long been... And it is not a burden on the current minister; rather, he will collect the results, rightly, because he has made an effort to put this on the agenda. It is not his burden that eight years of debt has been put under the rug, an attempt to set up another company's debts on the old one, and the new one is going to work, but it's already going to the burden of the irresponsible state government, which I'm asking the question, which I'm surprised my colleagues skipped – what about what we call road mobs and tolls that haven't gone into the cash register of enterprises that we're now giving guarantees and repaying debts for him, and that's his basic income? Is there in one part (if there was an audit, we might know) of this 29 billion debt, or 20, which we now guarantee, and how much, isn't there, safe, but how much money is currently in the court of inquiry? I would like to know at what stage of the court case and some legal procedure; the state is in charge, the budget needs to settle this, that it pays, is not free, has 4% margin, so the eurobor one month, etc., and the court procedure for what is the basic income of this company stands. Are the works really done and to what extent? How many prices were actually made real? Did the companies that grew from these businesses grow because they had a big trade, were worth three shifts, had a huge productivity, or many of them, like the blind passengers, boarded a car called obtaining profits at the expense of public affairs whose contracting, paying, crediting and today repaying loans hide from those who eventually have to pay it back? For me, this is a fundamental question. The fact that the bank guarantee that we as a state are giving to commercial banks is completely different and acts as a loan is a legal issue. What's essential is whether the fight against corruption and crime will get concrete exchanges or remain for a change of law, change the forms of agencies and advice it deals with, as part of the media promotion of those who are in charge of it, but only those who have to deal with it will also be able to point out and return such ratifications until such a report is delivered to us... or are we really going to say as one responsible state – we do not want what is the subject of crime, let us call on Slovenian experience? You know that Mr. Jankovic, who is known to have given the company "Delta" and has challenged a certain location for the construction of the mall, was involved in a security scandal with a company whose origins are here. When this scandal came to the public in front of those relevant institutions, so the pressure of the public, their court and their legislation solved the problem so that Mr. Jankovic's advance was given to the company for the protection of the facilities, which proved to be harmful and possible criminal, returned and no longer subject to criminal investigation. Why didn't the government do something about it? Why is it that we here, who get all kinds of laws as innovative, first, unconventional, best, etc., have not received one such law that even one dinar of unfairly poured out money back where it belongs? Maybe this guarantee would be less difficult today, financially. Maybe not all the people who took, for which there's evidence, spent their money, maybe buried something somewhere. We're in a situation where every single dollar really means a lot to this country. I do not use this at any time as an object of characterizing values at this difficult time, but there is indeed someone else's practice that we can look up to, and when we are fighting for a more responsible state and when we try to be responsible MPs and when we try to be responsible ministers. What I want to add to this... Not who's guilty, we know who's guilty, but we can't tell who's guilty; it's the state and the tolls, but above all and most countries, who didn't provide us with a report on that, which allowed real reports of what the debts are and what they're not, what the expenditures are. If we had a revision, we wouldn't have that problem; this would also bring down the budgetary inspection, and the audit and authority of the state, which had to take care of it. It's really not right that you don't provide us with basic loan contracts, that we only have it in our oral report, because we're not sure we know what we're guaranteeing today. Above all, we don't know under what conditions this guarantee will fall on the burden of the state. In this report of yours, both with your mouth and with what you delivered as material, and I must say that the material was delivered to 29, so on Friday, you did not provide us with the conditions under which these guarantees fall on the burden. If you think not to ratify a three-billion-dollar contract with the IMF is enough signal that after us here everything can be filed without the accompanying documentation, you can, the power of 126 votes allows, but I don't think that's a good practice. Believe me, if it weren't for the tolls, and that indifference chain and the obligation for people who work hard to accept at the end of their pay, I would personally vote if these two laws were removed from the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-01-0.u21468	Thank you. The word has a minister, Mrs Dragutinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-01-0.u21469	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'd like to say just a few notes about the laws that are on the agenda today. First of all, since I'm not a lawyer, I'm not so sure whether the terms of the contract should be an integral part of the law. I'll check it out, and then I'll apologize to the MPs. In any case, since I have guarantee contracts with me, I will make them available to MPs so that, after all the information available, they can vote for these guarantees. The second question, I never said that of these two offers, the "Societ Generale" is more favourable. I said that there was a process for public procurement of financial services and that at that point (so, in the public procurement process, four banks appeared), the "Societ Generale" was the most favourable. It gave a reference value and therefore tried to obtain bilateral negotiations with banks at least the same thing as we did in negotiations with the "Uncredited Bank". So, at the first moment after the bidding, there were four banks; definitely, the "Societ Generale" made the best offer. The last point, the loan obtained from the IMF is not a state loan. In that sense, he should not be subject to ratification. No country in the world credit approved by the International Monetary Fund, because it does not serve to cover public spending, is subject to ratification in parliament. As for the impact of these loans on foreign reserves, in both cases, both the Sosite General and the Unicredit Bank, it is undeniable that money comes from outside; it means, 100,000 euros or 75,000 euros will come from outside, as "cross boarders". As they come from the outside, immediately after the withdrawal of funds will essentially affect the growth of foreign exchange reserves, because the liabilities of the Public Enterprise are "roads" towards the tolls, i.e. that they have tolls towards their suppliers, essentially dinar obligations. Therefore, it will affect the increase of foreign reserves. At the moment of return, two rules are: one rule according to the "Societ General", since you don't owe yourself to a local bank – it wants to be, but a gradual, outflow of foreign reserves. In the second case, when it comes to the Unicredit Bank, it will not be an outflow of foreign reserves. So, given the amount of money and the time value of money, because it's not the same to get money at the moment when you need it most, so at one point, and to return it over a period of five years, definitely, the net effect is going to be the increase in foreign reserves.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-01-0.u21470	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Dr Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-01-0.u21471	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs. Dragutinovic, Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, I believe in the sincere intentions of you as competent ministers and the entire government, when it comes to the draft of these laws on the agenda. I am aware of the fact that you cannot bear the responsibility and consequences for the actions, actions and behavior of your predecessors. But when we look at it all together, this reminds me incredibly of that folk saying -- cut something to patch my ears. Why? For the simple reason that it seems to me that these loans will make up for part of our obligations to the tolls, that we won't get money for what is necessary, and then, by that logic, they'll need future capital projects to work on the faith. It kind of reminds me of what's coming. One more thing, will this and when will the responsibility under the JP "Serb Roads" for huge financial malfeasances be determined? When will there be people on the Board of Directors who have nominated all of this? I warmly support Boris Tadic's announcement on the fight against crime and corruption. Here's the opportunity: "Serbian Ways", a wonderful opportunity to fight crime, and something that continues – NIS. We play hide-and-seek, as the kids say. Everyone knows it's a source of crime and corruption. That revision can be done in a week, both in one case and in another. As a lawyer by profession, I'm involved in something called the Special Court case for so-called. The oil mafia. This is heteragicomic in relation to one NIS transaction, one contract on the purchase of crude oil, for profits made by various tycoons, various oligarchs, under the auspices of some people from the former prime minister's office. Everybody knows that and everybody's quiet. The head of NIS were people who didn't want to show anyone what their pay was. Like little Radojica, you could nail the kids, no, they wouldn't tell anyone. We didn't find out until today. What happens if we lose the Alpina-Pore dispute in front of international arbitration in Paris? In other words, there's nothing, no matter what bullshit they're banging, they don't stand a chance. And the public has never seen those secret annexes of the highway construction contract, I say so in a so-called way – from Horgos to nowhere, because it turns out to be a road for nowhere. It's easy, I say, to get over it, it's not gonna happen. I remember when this was claimed for Galenika, in a dispute between the Serbian state and ICN Pharmaceuticals – none of it is nonsense. That dispute was lost, the state paid for it fat. Let's not spend this loan money on this dispute, which is very easy for this country, as it used to do in secret these contracts... Today, Mr. Mrkonjic, I came from Saturday to Belgrade, and I didn't see anything going on. Maybe somewhere out of the way, out of reach of my eyes – I paid attention, you correct me if I'm wrong, I'd like to make mistakes – maybe there in those woods next to Beška, so you can't see from trees and leaves, but I can't see. God forbid this is a shot and this is a fresh start. I've just, not minding anything to you, brought out my reserves and my fears. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-01-0.u21472	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Mr Boris Aleksic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-01-0.u21473	Thank you, Mr. Novakovic. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, representatives of the government, I would only at first like to recapture what I said about an hour ago. The draft law on the granting of a guarantee from the Republic of Serbia is on the agenda for the benefit of the Un-credited Bank of Serbia, according to Public Enterprise Roads of Serbia, which is charged by the state and citizens with 75,000 euros, as well as the proposal for a law on the granting of a guarantee from the Republic of Serbia in favour of the Sociale Generale, Paris, France, under the responsibility of the Public Enterprise "The Ways of Serbia", which is owed by the state and citizens by 100,000 euros. I would like to remind you that three laws have also been passed last week that are in charge of 155,000 euros, and today or tomorrow, when the law is passed this week, we will be in charge of the new 175,000 euros. I would also like to remind myself that the Serbian Radical Party has come up with very important data, that citizens have spoken to us, I have already talked about it, about the clauses in population loans contracts. I have expressed my suspicion that such a clause may exist in these contracts, but Minister Dragutinovic said she would deliver the contract to us and we will check it all out. So, it is about clauses being introduced intensively into last year's loans contracts, which allow commercial business banks operating in Serbia's territory to raise that fixed part of the interest rate that is related to the margin plus infinitely. So it's about green interest rates. I was already talking about how most often, when credits are indexed in foreign currency, in euro or in Swiss francs, the variable part of the interest rate that is related to the eurobore and the libor and this fixed part of the interest rate is applied, so I suggest that citizens who have raised loans take their credit agreements and check, possibly, in the part that determines, define the calculation of interest, to look for the following structures, such as these. So I'm not going to say the name of the bank, because we don't want to violate the reputation of the bank, that is. We don't want to jeopardize their reputation risk. Therefore, ‘the Bank reserves the right to change the interest rate i.e. The bank may, until the final settlement of all the obligations of the borrower, without the conclusion of a specific annex, change the rate of interest from the previous position, in accordance with the acts of the commercial policy of the bank which regulate the amount and method of the interest account." So this is the clause that... Of course, citizens can't read everything in their loan contracts, especially those parts written in a smaller font, a fifth; no one can read ten, twenty, thirty pages on the spot, although they should do so and not sign credit agreements until they study everything. But it is usually inserted between certain positions that are not directly related to the interest rate, and this clause allows the business bank to raise the margin plus infinitely, which is illegal, because they are green interest rates. Now I'd like to move on to a new topic, and it's about Serbia's borrowing. I know that Minister Dragutinovic, whom we highly appreciate, disagrees with our analysis regarding the comparison of the Argentine script, i.e. Argentina and Serbia. There are certain differences, the Argetins tied their currency to the dollar, we're for the euro. I will read, in order to avoid confusion, this is an analysis published in the French "Mondu" and in the magazine "Mond Diplomatic". These analyses from 2002 and beyond have been used. So at the time of the military dictatorship in Argentina, the country's external debt increased 5.5 times. The International Monetary Fund has planned and advised generals, meaning a dictatorial regime; even a senior official of this organisation, Dante Simon, was appointed to the Argentine Central Bank. So that's how the IMF cooperates with the totalitarian regime. There was a totalitarian, authoritarian regime on the scene in Argentina. So, according to international law, the debt made by a totalitarian, the dictatorial regime is considered a dubious claim. There is no obligation to repay that debt. Of course, later, when a democratic regime is established, to put it that way, the state can commit itself and repay that debt, but by international law it does not have to do so. Now you see what I'm getting at, a similar thing is happening to Serbia. A little more about Argentina. Following the establishment of democracy in Argentina in 1985, the IMF pressured President Alfonse to recognise the debt. Although the president had the legal basis to reject the Fund's request, he accepted their condition. The contract recognised a reduced debt, as well as in the case of Serbia. So we can pay attention to the similarity with Serbia and the words that the DOS officials in Paris have given in time when those debts are reprogrammed. The Paris Club of the State of Trustees wrote off, i.e. He approved the write-off of 66% of Yugoslavia's debt to Serbia. It's about 2001, so the start of DOS rule, the DOS regime. Yugoslavia (Serbia) received 22 years to pay $1.8 billion, with a six-year grace period, while with $4.562 billion in long-term debt, the Paris Club reprogrammed 648 million in short-term debt. Similar negotiations were conducted with the London Club, which makes up a group of over 600 commercial banks, as you know, trustees, to whom our state owed $2.2 billion. Representatives of the Serbian government then forgot to mention that they have, in fact, recognised 34% of the due diligence of the debt most of the time of Tito. As far as I know, the Democratic Party's representatives have declared that Tito's regime was dictatorial. If he was dictatorial, and he was, then our country has no obligation to repay the debts he made, according to international law. So today, Serbian citizens pay for something they didn't have to pay for. Serbia's external debt exceeded $30 billion. We could have noticed, first an arrangement with the IMF (three billion), then these laws I counted here. Once again, I will indicate that the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia has about 22 million people who owed about $30 billion, and that Serbia has about eight million inhabitants and Serbian citizens owe more than $30 billion. So, it's just amazing! Therefore, the external debt exceeded that amount of $30 billion, although it amounted to $12.3 billion in 2003 and was projected to be $10.5 billion in 2010. Now look at that budget error! That's why I think it's the Ministry or the Government, that's why. The SRS believes that there must be a certain risk management, sector, department that will assess the risks of money placement, use of budget funds etc. So, like there are commercial banks. The Risk Management Sector is based, i.e. It should be based on the concept established by Basel 1, Basel 2, perhaps now some new Basel 3, we will see, but in any case we need to apply these methods. Serbian citizens were credited to 311.9 billion dinars at the end of August, which means that citizens' debt increased by 5.8% compared to the end of last year. These are indicators of the Association of Banks of Serbia, etc. What leads to uncontrollable borrowing is best seen in the case of South America and the famous Argentine crisis, so this is an analysis of "Monda" and "Mond Diplomatics". IMF and World Bank creditors in some countries, such as Haiti, Peru, the Dominican Republic, have secured themselves the right to collect taxes and taxes. Of course, when the state can't pay off its debts anymore, that's how it's done. In other cases (Mexico) exploited major export resources, where oil revenues went through New York bank accounts controlled by federal reserves. So, once again, the system of federal reserves is the central bank of the United States, and it's private. It became a private act on federal reserves from 1913. Creditors often imposed their legal jurisdiction in resolving disputes, and they did not go too far from military intervention to realise their claims. From 1980 to 2000, private creditors charged $192 billion from Latin America more than the amount they borrowed. In 1999 and 2000, the Latin American countries paid $86.2 billion more than they borrowed. The International Monetary Fund made 71.3 billion dollars available to Argentina between 1980 and 2000, while it paid back 86.7 billion dollars. The profits were 15.4 billion. From 1982 to 2000, Latin America paid all its creditors an incredible sum of $1,450 billion, four times its debt of 1982. So now you see what a foundry policy is and what it actually leads to uncontrollable borrowing. In 2004, the Argentine Foreign Debt was 130 billion dollars, although Argentina paid more than $200 billion over 25 years. In July 2000, the authority of the Argentinean court, in a ruling based on 195 pages, exposed the illegal nature of the debt and the guilt of the IMF and the US Federal Reserve system due to the country's poverty. A great deal of help in this process, the IMF and the Federal Reserve system, they got from newly-compromised Argentine capitalists, tycoons, oligarchs, whatever you want. So there is a strong resemblance to the situation in Serbia. According to the director of the "Mond Diplomatic" list, Injasio Ramon, IMF, World Bank and World Trade Organisation are fostering a profit cult, causing the ecological devastation of various parts of the planet. I would now quote parts of an interview by former World Bank official, American John Perkins, who published the book "Recognition of a Paid Economic Killer". The translation into Serbian is unfortunate; in English it is "economic hitman", an adequate term does not exist in Serbian, but it is close to this. So, “the confession of a paid economic killer. ” An interview with him was published by "Geopoliticals", our famous Serbian magazine, 19. 2. In 2008. Here's what John Perkins says, as a former World Bank and IMF official: "The most important task for an economically-paid killer is to discover all those third-world countries that have resources that American corporations are interested in; let's take an example of oil. Then these countries, the World Bank or similar institutions allow huge loans, but money does not go directly to the country, it rather goes to US companies that build powerful factories and industrial complexes or take on other grand infrastructure projects in the country. The earth, of course, ends by falling into a huge debt that cannot be reconciled. Then we," says John Perkins, "economic hit men go back to that country and say – since you can't pay your debts, give us what you live on, sell your oil at low prices to our oil companies, or other natural resources. In some situations where we have not had success, agents," he calls them jackals, and there is also no adequate translation into Serbian, it is about paid killers, "have been sent to tear down that government or to eliminate those leaders that the economic killers have failed to bribe. It happened to me," says John Perkins, "in Panama and Omar Torios was killed as a result. If even the jackals were to fail," therefore, hit men, "then the American army is going, as is the case with Iraq. “ So to avoid confusion, John Perkins is a former World Bank official. He completed studies for executives, management at the University of Boston and quickly became interesting as the appropriate potential of political and economic structures and security structures, such as the US and MAIN National Security Agency, a small company that has been a consultant of the World Bank under the third-world investment programme. So this is where we go in. According to it, he became a paid economic killer overnight. I call on citizens to get "Geopoliticals" or see on their website, that's the number of 19. 2. In 2008, they read the whole interview. However, what happens to the task, we can see from the example of the United States. Something incredible happened in the U.S. At the time, Mark Tven, a famous writer, said that the United States has the best congress, i.e. A parliament that money can buy, but those congressmen and these senators have shown something new. Remember, when the big economic crisis broke out in the U.S., where George Soros, one of the few, earned $1.5 billion, so he profited from that crisis, he probably knew what would happen, that numerous banks, as well as the automotive industry, had poored and were nationalised overnight. Private banks have ultimatically asked the Senate and Congress to approve the great so-called. "bank bailout bill", which will allow banks most affected by the US crisis to receive about 700 billion dollars. Here's what the congressmen said, so their parliamentarians, then in Congress. They were passing worse Dril than to be, as chairman, the distinguished Mrs. Comic. A congressman from California, Brad Sherman, stated in his statement that some MPs, MPs in private talks, were threatened by the introduction of a state of emergency unless they adopted this bailout bill. As early as September 23, 2008, bankers asked for a blank check, so private banks, including a federal reserve system, to avoid confusion, since at the head of all private banks in America, there is a system of federal reserves, like a private bank that the state cannot control, even Congress cannot control. So on September 23rd 2008, private bankers sought a blank check and threatened the recession, but then the senators refused to confirm the law. Then the stock market went down, a record drop, but then the senators wouldn't give in. After that, threats begin by introducing a state of emergency. So, the representatives of private bankers, the Federal Reserve system, are openly threatening US lawmakers, members of Congress, to introduce a state of emergency. The final version of the ballout bill was only received minutes before the vote on 3 October 2008. The law didn't just give the banks 700 billion dollars, it was a blank check, really. Why? Because by February 2009, 9.7 trillion dollars were cut out of their budget. As you can see in the case of Argentina and the case of the United States, extreme borrowing leads to problems. It undermines basic democratic principles, it violates democracy. Private banks, especially powerful banks, such as the Federal Reserve system, do not operate on the principle of democracy. That's where you know who's boss, who decides. Those who don't like it can leave the bank. Their representatives spoke openly, representatives of the Federal Reserve System, that they should not be involved in the business, nor the executive authority, so the administration, nor the legislative authority. It's a model for the whole world, it's a model that promotes megacapitalists, owners of large capital. I gave you an example of George Soros, who made a living in the crisis; when everyone lost, when the American car industry lost, when the most powerful banks lost, George Soros made $1.5 billion. So they want such a model to apply to other countries, to the whole world. The question arises, did the banks possibly know there was a major global economic crisis coming? I would not say that they knew, but some commercial business banks did what they had to do; they prepared a strategy for years back in the event of a systemic crisis created on the international market or on the EU market, as well as on the regional market, the local market, etc. I think our country had to prepare something like that, too. He's got to get ready by now. So there's a lot to learn from business banks. They had a ready-made scenario for the crisis on the international market or on the EU market, so I think these are some tips that will be used in the future.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-01-0.u21474	Zoran Ostojić is not here. Minister, do you want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-01-0.u21475	Dear ladies and gentlemen, there is no point in defending these two laws alone, and the initiator of this was the Ministry of Infrastructure, or me as the Minister of Infrastructure. Of course I'm very pleased with all the discussions that have been made here so far. I am particularly pleased with the seriousness with which MPs approach the realisation of this travel economy restructuring programme, with all those critical notes, which I also accept, from responsibility to some personal, subjective assessment of the situation on the roads. The point is that these two laws today inject 175,000 euros in Serbia's economy. That's the essential thing, in my opinion, for the job that's been done. Of course, at a age when I'm not so naive as to accept a ministry with so much debt without knowing how it was made. I'll answer one question at a time, but I won't name it, so don't be mad at me. So we've been dealing with this problem for ten months. That's not speed. Ten months. For the first five months, we've been trying to determine whether this debt was made for those jobs we're talking about. Internal Commissions from the Ministry of Infrastructure and two audits outside the Ministry of Infrastructure found that these jobs were done. I've personally visited 20 or 35% of these facilities, all done. So the 30-billion-dollar debt I inherited is the jobs that were done in the previous years. I'm not getting into that financial part you were talking about, one budget, another budget, etc. So the jobs are done. For me, it was the most important indicator that the companies that worked, and I accept every debt of the previous government as my own, come to the funds that they invested. Of course, there's been a lot of bumps, there's been a lot of public talk, there's been my clashes with the tolls, the travel industry, the threats to strikes, etc., but the bottom line is what I just said. If so, and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, whose member I am, unanimously accepted the project to build a highway on Corridor 10 as its first task in the next four years, then companies, domestic enterprises, and you all talked about it, should be given a chance to do the job. Of course, they can't do it if we're always going to tender, and it's always going to tender; they can't do it if they don't have conditions for it, mechanization, because the technological level of machinery in Europe today is very high; they can't go to it, of course, if they don't have personnel and can't pay their people. That was why we analyzed all of this in detail, so we only came out today. Maybe the laws, the day, the two, the three, are quick to propose, but the bottom line is what I'm saying right now. I asked the government for full support and I got it. I don't want to, a few of you have said that the Assembly is divided on this matter. The government is absolutely unique in the view that long tolls should be paid and conditions should be created for these companies (here, one tender was for the north, Horgos - Novi Sad) to appear at these auctions. Of course, a lot of things you know here, and I'm glad you know so much, but I wouldn't comment on some grades that weren't exactly... about what's going on in Horgos. Dr. Vladan Batic is out, so I won't comment. It's working there today. There are 78 workers out there today in one construction site, on the other 98; I'm not saying to impress you, that's data on a regular basis. But let's not all get involved now that we've accepted the corridor as our perspective so that we all start projecting and building. It's a danger. I'm glad most people in the country understand that, and that's the most important thing for us. There are 50 machines there, but it was raining, people can't take off their hummus when the ground is wet, etc., so I don't bother you. As for the Beška Bridge, Mr. Maras asked nicely and surprised me, he comes from there, not that no pillar was done, 27 pillars were done; three more pillars would be done and then by the end of the year a construction of 1200 metres from this left side of the Danube would be completed. Not to mention, this project is going well and it's building with full intensity. Of course, when it comes to a road company, there was a lot of dilemmas about it in 2006, I remember, regardless of how active I was at the time in the travel business, whether to make a public company out of the companies on the budget, the Road Directorate. Personally, I'd be willing to remain the Road Directorate, but a public firm has been built. International loans coming into a public enterprise can't be spent on any side other than what they're given for. It's the first thing and it eliminates corruption and theft in that part. Regional and highway routes are being maintained, and this is a priority for road companies, from the means that come, as you said, from the revenues from toll and excise. Last year it was about 300 million, this year it will be 350 etc. As we all swear in Europe, European standards are as follows: 1,200,000, according to the European experts' assessment, should be invested in maintaining regional and state-of-the-art roads in our country. Not in building new ones, building new ones is a special item. That's the 1,600,000 I asked the government and the state to finish Corridor 10. So, to maintain the highways and regional roads. Local roads and local infrastructures are maintained from local resources, i.e. from some other sources. I think we passed one law once, Mrs Tabakovic was just criticizing me. She asked where the money would go, what loans local self-government was financed from. That's what the law says, and that's what I just said, checked out in the road company. It couldn't be stolen, I'm not talking to toll for now... It couldn't be stolen from that part, because it's completely defined. My checks said there's no machinations in this part of the area that you're talking about right now. As for the price, Mr Nikolic talked about it, prices are fixed in the road company, and it is known exactly how it is maintained. I see that he knows it, and maybe a lot of you know it well, how to maintain the flight paths, how in winter; the prices are there and they are defined and beyond that cannot go. Special orders are given at the ice-skating, diving, etc. You know exactly how to give. All the papers I've personally reviewed, and most of them I've examined, they're completely clean for the years behind us. For these ten months, I'm absolutely at my disposal and I'm carrying all the responsibility. Any MP can call me whenever he wants, talk to me and come to the Ministry, the door is open, you can see everything we've been doing all these ten months. So the basic thing is... When I suggested that debt be resolved this way, we talked about it for four months, and we were all unanimous, and that's why we think it is – someone said it nicely, and I don't like to talk much about it, I'm mostly turned to the future and the present – stabilising relations in the travel economy for the future. For some new minister who comes in, he won't have to deal with debts anymore. We don't have debts today. As far as Corridor 10 is concerned, one of the MPs once again asked if it was done with fictitious money. No, I don't. The budget planned 2,200,000 for the northern leg, we won the tender, a billion and six hundred will cost the northern leg, only these 20 kilometers. We'll give the other part of the money to the south from Levoso to Presevo so we can finish, because these are contracts from the previous years, until July 7th. So, we haven't started a single job without having a foundation in finance. The basic idea of the Government of the Republic of Serbia is that until the arrival of international loans, which we talked about so much... Let me remind you once again, 1,200,000 euros has been secured, or announced by international banks for implementation on the project Corridor 10 from Leskovec to the border and from Nis to Dimitrovgrad. We haven't defined the north yet. And the bypass around Belgrade goes into those loans. The north section hasn't been defined yet. We'll try to find the funds, so we can continue our work from Horgos to Novi Sad with domestic money. How? We'll see. So no single dinar hangs. Our basic wish is by the end of the year to complete the complete project documentation for all 150 kilometers of highways, to perform the expropriation as much as possible and to open up on the stocks, and to open up and open in the following year... As you know, and there's been a lot of controversy about it, the international banks will only lend loans if we finish the preparations. The main projects, the idea of major projects and land expropriation are being completed in the preparation operations for the construction of the highway. These are the basic elements and preconditions for entering the international market. It's obvious that today, and I'm particularly pleased with the financial, economic crisis in the world, I've created conditions to finally make these projects related to Corridor 10 our big chance. That's good. So if the state can provide these funds, and obviously we can, then it's very important that we do. One more thing that made me particularly happy is your understanding of people in the travel industry. Someone said one number, I'll fix it a little - 19,000 workers work directly in the travel industry. When it is multiplied by those who are their cooperatives, with families, etc., it is about 100,000 people who live directly from what is happening in the travel industry. As for some other projects, I wouldn't talk about them today. The project from Belgrade to Cačka is also guaranteed to end this year; I am talking about the project, and I assume that if we provide the funds, we will enter into the realisation of the job next year. As for the "Alpine - Por", I did not forget the question of Mr. Batic and Mr. Maras. I can't talk about it today, because there's this international arbitration going on and it's not directed, that's what we agreed in the government, that either of us is giving any information. But the information presented by Mr Batić, i.e. not Mr Batic, but by fellow G17 Plus MPs, when it comes to concessions (as it is a neutral question, I can talk about it), it does not matter what the price is and how much the concessionaire wants to calculate with the price. The concessione defines that the concessionary assumes the obligation to create an object, to use it, to return it to the state, of course, with all the elements that the state can seek, employment of workers, etc. The price is his business, and that's why I didn't do it. The proof of our builders' wishes to work is exactly the bidding that was made for these two sections of the road, from Novi Sad to Horgos. Eighteen companies have filed documentation, 12, 13 or 15 have reported it; they have received two of the cheapest companies. We brought the price, in my opinion, and before the bidding I said, at a real 600,000 - 700,000 euros per km, because it's only one tape, because the objects are finished, the expropriation is over and that's the real price of that stock. The most transparent, the most open, on the highway won't be able to steal if we really go this way and "tender" everything else. I'd say another detail, very important. For example, public procurement is the right thing to reduce corruption, and there is another element that is also very important. We can't close the country's borders today, so let's say, we don't want international tenders, we don't want international businesses here with us. But we can direct them. For every international loan, you know it better than I do, there's got to be an international bidding. We have a problem here, our companies don't have that bonus, so we don't get into the details. Let's say, "The Bridge"; I was an advocate and prevented further privatisation of the Bridge, so now the state owner of the Bridge, 70%, because we transferred our debts to the PIO Fund, etc., according to the state, to our state capital. I continue to argue that the Bridge is the right firm that we need in the coming years, but today we have to create conditions for this bridge to get to the first job, and the first job will be on the road from Orlovaca to the Bubanj stream, one bridge 13, not to bother you team, so that they can survive. We have saved the Bridge, Bridge is not going for sale, but we must give it a job, of course, under conditions where we can, at least where the money is domestic and where international banks do not participate in tenders. I thank you again (Mr Nikolic came in, perhaps he didn't hear me), I am grateful to the MPs and to you especially for the seriousness and treatment you gave this problem, in the name of the pathway. Of course, I'm not asking for any political privileges in that part. In my term of office, the criticism of the companies that I accept as a whole. I haven't set up any of the directors of 12 companies. Of course, the feud has caused a great deal of harm to the entire Serbian economy, but in a coalition with people I work with today, I have a lot of understanding and I don't have any problems. So please measure my results as if I've been working on these projects for the last seven years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-01-0.u21476	Thank you, Mr. Grouchy. On the basis of Article 85(1), I interrupt today's work for one hour. We'll continue at 2.50 this afternoon. Thank you for your cooperation.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-01-0.u21477	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue to work in the afternoon session in accordance with the order of the Members of the People's Parliament, and according to the application for a word, in a joint review of the drafts of the law on the 1st and 2nd points of the agenda. The word has the People's MP Zoran Ostojić. Time is available to the parliamentary group for four minutes and thirty seconds. After him, MP Dragan Stevanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-01-0.u21478	Thank you. Dear Vice President, the Honorable Minister, a few colleagues and colleagues, I don't get a text message, which is a sign that there's no transmission. Is there a transmission? So, the problem is with the text. In any case, to repeat what my colleagues have said, we are unhappy that there is no interest in the law, we are dissatisfied that there is no interest in the written explanation, it is only in the oral explanation of the Minister. We appreciate that, but we think the state is run by papers, not words or cell phones. We could have won, say, a contract along the way. When we could get that big, significant, historical one with the Russian state, we could get this one with two banks. In any case, here are two problems that prevent LDP from voting: this is the first thing I said, we wish we had seen what we were looking for, because ultimately, it is the seriousness of the state and of the MPs who are taking on some kind of historical responsibility for borrowing generations that are coming. The second thing is responsibility for this amount of 300,000 euros in debts from this public enterprise. It is good that we have established that Djindjic's, or Zivkovic's government, when it comes to the Road Directorate, handed over to Kostunica's government an operating debt of nine billion dinars, which is about 10m euros per current course, that at the end of 2005, before the Public Enterprise was formed, the Directorate had a debt of nine billion dinars, that already in 2006, the debt rose to 21 billion euros, and in 2007 to 25, to reach 30 billion dinars, or 300m euros. What happened in those years we all know – a referendum campaign, one election, another election, an asphalting on a telephone call, private roads in that "emirate" that Serbia has on Wet Mountain, Wires, etc. It's clear how these debts came about, but it's not clear who's going to answer for it. Now, this is a cover of what was in the past, pre-election asphalting, and we generally understand, because they are in that government, and we have heard that all the ministers of finance were guilty, many of the current ruling coalition and many who accuse former colleagues. It is a little hypocritical to sit in the government and accuse a fellow finance minister from the government. I'm talking about the first two governments of Vojislav Kostunica, which apparently the most debts have been made to this public enterprise. Therefore, those who are responsible for this should vote, and I hope that the establishment of a rule of law in Serbia will allow those responsible for these debts, which will be paid by those who come, at some point in time, to respond. I hope this public enterprise no longer works the way it worked during those two Kostunica governments, that millions and millions of taxpayers spend on one phone call in campaigns. I hope that this will be no more, and that never again the sloppyness, insolence and the worst traits of the party state, the citizens of Serbia will cover with such loans. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-01-0.u21479	Before I give my word to Parliamentarian Dragan Stevanovic, I shall inform the National Assembly on the basis of Article 85(5). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, that today we will work even after 1800 hours, according to the agenda which at that time is the subject of our debate. The word is made by MP Dragan Stevanovic. The time available to the SRS Parliamentary Group is 53 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-01-0.u21480	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, this refers to Mr Mr Mrkonjic, who recently found fit to address MPs, and said that the debate on these loans, i.e. taking and withdrawing a loan worth 175,000 euros from two banks, as he said, is a restructuring of the travel economy. For the SRS, these loans can be anything, but to be defined as restructuring of the travel economy certainly can't. At the beginning of today's session, Boris Aleksic, as an authorised representative, voiced concern that the withdrawal of the loan to refinance, i.e. the borrowing of the state or public enterprise to repay debts, would be presented as an injection of 175,000 in the travel economy. We agree that this is necessary for the state. Many countries that have been destroyed due to different historical circumstances have, and have, raised themselves thanks to public lines, investment in the area of road infrastructure, but what we are talking about today is definitely not restructuring the road economy in Serbia. All aspects from which we look at these credit loans, that is, we dispute the executive's intention to present them, I will try in a few sentences and a few minutes to explain and present. When we talk about the value, i.e. the amount of credits mentioned, in order for the public and MPs to get an adequate picture of how much it is, it may be best for each of us who had the opportunity to attend the Assembly session a few days ago to make a parallel with the figures that counterpart Aleksandar Martinovic spoke about when he talked about phenomena in the media world of Serbia and the fact that two people control much more money than money that we will withdraw through two loans and, which is irony and hypocrisy, for that money, the state has an obligation to provide guarantees, i.e. to pass the assembly procedure. I would return to the beginning of this debate today, when the opposition MPs expressed their skepticism over this law, or ask the proposing representative to explain why there is no interest in the draft laws, no deadlines, no grace period, etc. You must agree, Madam Minister, that these demands were truly justified. I do not insist that these values should have been entered into the text of the law, but if you really wanted to be held accountable, you had to send them to the Assembly by following an act with this law. Later, you told the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia what interest and deadlines were, all that the MPs were interested in. You even eventually expressed your willingness to make the laws, or contracts signed completely transparent, or given to the public for insight. The question is, what was the problem with the procedure, the administrative solution, maybe there wasn't a deadline? You signed one contract on May 29th, right? But you will agree with me and this: these two laws clearly state that the withdrawal of funds from creditors would not have been questioned even if we hadn't discussed these laws today. Under the first law, those deadlines expire on June 30th. So, you had space, both you and the congregation service, to administratively edit this in a way that should be done, to remove every shadow and doubt in your intentions, if it's not really bad intentions, and I think we might start the debate in a different tone, dealing with the specific and essential things that are meant to be and in the contracts in question, or in the laws that we should ratify. The Serbian Radical Party, to be clear, does not dispute the economic category of guaranteeing, programming and concept. We believe that the only point of contact of state and capital, i.e. credit borrowing, can and can be a guarantee right now. Exceptional cases are when the state can be in charge, when it comes to the budget deficit, but when the state has the capacity to return it from real income over a short period of time. As the most responsible man, at least when it comes to finance in this country, you'll agree with me that we are economically absolutely unprepared to respond to loans. You just said that these arrangements with the International Monetary Fund aren't loans, they don't have that status. Whatever status they have will objectively be the burden of both the budget and the income side and all those who are taxpayers, especially if we discuss the structure and three billion, as well as what they will be spent on or where they will be placed. But it's probably a story for some new rebalancing, which we expect will come, and whether or not it will be, time will show. We don't mind the state showing up here as a guarantee, but the state has to really imagine who the guarantee is. You guarantee the company that is operating with losses, you guarantee the company that in the family, 14 companies that, in the last year alone, made a debt of 1,600,000 euros to the state. I think you know what I'm talking about, out of 15 public enterprises, only Telecom did the winning business, everyone else was losing. But to make the irony bigger, in an indirect way the government of the Republic of Serbia manages this company, the state is the founder. We listened to a series of MPs pick the government. What people were on the boards of directors of this company? We find the state irresponsiblely entering that story. We understand the needs of those to whom the Public Enterprise owes, but we can't abuse it and we can't worry about all these people right now, getting cheap political points here, and on the other hand, we can't do some unspeakable damage. This credit borrowing, i.e. guaranteeing, can also be interpreted in a way that in all of this state has recognised its chance to beat up its debts with this public enterprise, so if the debtor does not repay the credit, the state will take over, in five years, after one year of grace period, repay those assets and break its debts with the Public Enterprise. You can look at it that way, but it's really unserious. Indemnity to repay debts, you have to accept this finding and fact, for the SRS is definitely not a restructuring of the travel economy. I will now on a very interesting case through my story to show that the concept of the executive authority cannot be recognised about the importance of public works, i.e. to change the structure of exports of this country. I'm sorry Mr. Mrkonjic isn't here, but I assume he built his career on construction sites around the world when Serbia was recognized for its neglect. If we are talking about the structure of our exports, Madam Minister, which is very important for budget revenues, i.e. the change in the balance sheet, i.e. the deficit, second place after agriculture, Serbia should as an export product offer its construction or road economy, construction operation, etc. But you just don't recognize it in all of this. We would really be willing to support the guarantees, but if we could recognize investment in these loans, if we could help these loans to our construction operation to appear in an international tender, to get a tender that would provide a profit inflow, which would fill the foreign reserves, which would change the economic blood count of this country. This is a spill from the hollow to the blank. Here's an example that I'm right, Madam Minister, when I say that the government has no concept when it comes to road infrastructure, public works, sustainable projects. Has this country shown interest in, say, reporting for a tender for construction of the Bolara highway - a bar in Montenegro? It is a highway, a project that has concession status and, imagine irony, that concession was obtained by Croats, and this Split construction company in a consortium with the Institute of Transport of Croatia. They recognized the importance and meaning of the public and private sector partnership, reported and got the job. The first ones are ranked. What was it about us that kept it a secret? There is no procedure or word from the Government and the Minister or anyone who will convince me that we do not have human resources, capacities, knowledge or anything else to respond to these non-Imarian challenges. I'll remind you of one fact about this project – I'm making a digression because it's very important, it talks a lot about the strategy and concept of the executive government in Serbia – fourteen million euros costs a mile on the most complex and complex part! Imagine what kind of foreign exchange inflow Serbia would have of all this and in order to meet the challenges of economic problems and crises ahead of us if we had managed to get our construction operation, why not the Public Enterprise "The Ways of Serbia", we engage below. Who didn't? They've failed everyone, from our diplomacy to our economy. Now we're talking 175,000 euros that we're going to inject, I agree, among some of our performers or subcontractors, but it's not really going to feel that way. If there were indeed a commitment from this country to deal with perspectives and, I repeat, state projects, today we would be talking about withdrawing money that would really provide new jobs, public works, raising economic opportunities in Serbia. Also, Mr. Minister, I wanted to tell you through this story, regardless of our ideological and political opposition, that, if anything else, you have the courage, slap that government of yours on the table and ask the competent ministers and prime ministers to send a law on planning and construction to this assembly. Why, Mr. Minister? As long as the SRS sits here, they'll insist on it. We're either gonna make you do it or we're gonna drive you away, so we're gonna do it. But planned documentation, planning and construction laws, urban plans... Why am I saying all this, Mr. Minister? This country or this assembly, this assembly, it seems to me, has so far given me guarantees on who knows how many hundreds of millions of euros of loans you couldn't withdraw by now, and you couldn't withdraw them because of the fact that there is no project documentation. Imagine that those who promote European values and lead Serbia to Europe seek money, vote guarantee, confirm contracts and have no project documentation for roads. Well, who's gonna take us seriously? What kind of message is that to potential investors or what kind of picture are we leaving about us? You cannot accuse this of obstructing the opposition, specifically the SRS. That's what puts you on the line. But the story that this is being put on you and that you as government and executive authority are responsible, both this and all governments back in 2000, we've been trying to hide today with the story that this is a restructuring of the travel economy. We, Mr. Minister, would really like our road infrastructure and travel economy to be restructured, we would like public works; we would like our country, as a serious state that recognises Serbian national interests, economically, to appear both in Montenegro and anywhere in the world where it has appeared years ago. However, it seems to me that there is no concept in the government, that the government does not recognise either vision or concept, or sees Serbia in the next period of five or ten years, burdened with some cheap, low and completely worthless problems that are at stake because it is a victim of compromise and operates on the principle of verse, from today to tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-01-0.u21481	The word has Minister Milutin Mrkonjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-01-0.u21482	Let's start with this latest finding by Mr. Stevanovic; that is, at the beginning of his presentation, he said, the word "restructure". What does the word “restructure” mean? It means adapting to new conditions of life and work. Now I'm going back, avoiding the most convincing of the last ten months I've been in the government, and no one gets hit there. My criticism will be directed towards the future. The privatisation of the road company, which was 42, is the biggest mistake ever made since October 5th, and I'm not going to mention October 5th. There were 42 companies that were involved in maintaining the highways and regional roads, and they were on the budget. All the big construction companies you talked about were destroyed, that's my dream, and that's how it will be if this government survives in the next year or two days, because construction was our biggest exporter, I won't talk about the details. The big companies are gone, the ones that are building, and this one we privatized, and we haven't trained, modified, restructured that they can work on Corridor 10, which is our biggest developmental opportunity, and I'm going to say that while I'm alive, if we don't, and we're going to do it for sure. It's a restructuring. Then what did we do? We made these companies a debt on the local roads, the Corridor remained intact. Now that we have to get into the realization of the Corridor, we don't have companies that know how to do it. We have partial personnel, a young colleague, in part. You know, down in Surdulica, I was there on Friday... You know very well that we don't have personnel, people have escaped elsewhere, we're returning them now. We have a relatively good construction operation, but unable to do all these big jobs. Here, Mr. Batic didn't see 40 machines now on the highway. He must be investing in machines. The worst part is, these companies don't know how to make highways. It's a restructuring, for me. If we give them these 175,000 grand today, which is huge money, they will be able, they said today – 120 new machines have been bought. They bought the machines and will try to make this most beautiful part of the highway between Novi Sad and Horgos in a record four or six months. It's a restructuring. We have to do that too, so that when international loans come, and they come, I hope, September of the month, we can get into harder jobs down south. It is obvious that the government has a good strategy down in the south, where the heavy shares are – Sitsyvacka and Gredelska gorge are difficult. Well said, there's a value of work between eight and twelve million. Just so we don't shoot each other, you said it well, with those numbers; every smart man knows well that the highways in any part of the country can't be the same as any other stock in another part. That's why I said the word "restructure" on purpose, although it's hard to pronounce. We also have to do that and say September 1st – here, our companies that have worked and are going to work (and of course the sides, I'm not getting into it), are able to go to these difficult parts of the highway. In two and a half years we have to finish, no matter how much you appreciate my words, whether I popularize it or don't know how, we have to finish the highway through our country in two and a half years to get ahead of Romania and Bulgaria in a race for that part of Europe, of course, as far as transit is concerned. I don't want to talk about the benefits our companies get, but last time someone criticized me for it. That's not what I'm talking about, that's what I mean. That's why I said the word "restructure." You said so well, I've been working all over the world and I've learned this knowledge around the world, but, so we can go, remember... I don't tend to repeat, except for the positive things in history, to take something in my mouth that might bother someone right now, but politically, no. Yeah, yeah, buddy Tito, why not? We first built a construction operation at our country restoration after the war. On that track from Belgrade to Bar, I began as an intern. We trained our companies, and then they went to third-world countries, and this man was selling it nicely, nice. Why wouldn't it be our chance to train our businesses here through our projects? Because I can't have our companies out today, so be assured of that. Bridge building is the best company in bridge building, I don't know any better in Europe than they do, believe me. My first associate is Dejan Kovacevic, who has been the director of Bridgebuilding for years, he says, I believe him. But the Bridge does not have a bonus; today it has a billion-debt cube, which does not go into what we were talking about today. We need to see how. To do all this, we have a short time, please support me in this. Not me, but the government of the Republic of Serbia, which (response Mr. Stevanovic in a very specific way) for the first time, and for a long time in this business, has a strategy for infrastructure development. The National Council, led personally by the President of the State, is very important, regardless of what someone will understand it one way or another; a team of people who do it, in infrastructure there is a whole team of people who do it, if you believe me, and you chose me; if you don't love me, I'm sorry, find a better and younger one, I'll accept that, which work professionally. We know what we need to do. We said the first priority is the first time through our country, the second priority of the railroad, the third metro, the apartment building, which is what you're talking about right now. That's what we said and that's defined. For the first time, five ministries have worked: the Ministry of Economy, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Infrastructure, the Ministry of Planning and the Ministry of NIP. We're all together, coordinating each other, there's a little difficulty, but in those co-ordinations in coalition governments, that's how it works. So if you ask me, if you believe me, believe me, this is not the kind of climate that almost existed. The second thing, very important, was the last project I worked in rebuilding the country and often gave young colleagues in the ministry courage in this way, and also my wonderful friend Diana, when I say - children, it was a time when we didn't have a dinar, today I'm satisfied with what we have. We have a share of the funds today; what we're going to end this year, 40 km, please remember, we're going to finish by November 29th. We also have potential 1,600,000 international loans. That's fantastic money. We have a great chance. Well, aren't Angela Merkel smarter than we are, or Obama, when we talk about infrastructure? They're not smarter, are they? The German roads aren't worse than ours, are they? Well, Angela Merkel's got to throw some punches in those holes, too. The world isn't crazy when it says investment in infrastructure at this point is the greatest chance of survival, is it? In this context, when we talk about public works, I don't get into the details of public works in other areas and local self-government, I talk about these state affairs, and I stand up for these state affairs. So the real government orientation and the real goal of the government is clear. We'll agree on the details. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-01-0.u21483	The right to a replica based on interpretation, MP Dragan Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-01-0.u21484	Mr. Minister, I recognized two things through your discussion. First of all, you and I agree on a lot of things, and on the other hand, I've gotten the impression that you as a minister and as a representative of the executive authority are trying to convince me, as an opposition MP, to convince me or to let me know what's wrong with all this in this country, it's wrong or it's bad. I'm completely in agreement with you here. I want to tell you this. When it comes to restructuring, I have not disputed the need to restructure, but, Mr. Minister (I will end it, I will no longer compromise, or to replicate each other), when it comes to restructuring, you are entering the restructuring process with the people most responsible for the disappearance of all major construction enterprises in this country. The Serbian Radical Party is concerned because of this fact that you will end the restructuring process as would suit the interests of the state, or the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-01-0.u21485	The word has Minister Milutin Mrkonjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-01-0.u21486	I thank Mr. Stevanović. In one thing he's right; in most things we agree, but as far as the current situation is concerned, I can see that the media have tried to abuse it several times, even my honesty, and I've always thought that it's best for a man to honestly address the public when he has some problems, to solve them together. There's no man in the current government who's challenging what I've said here. The most convincing effort is being made by Mrs. Diana, because right now the biggest problem is how to provide and create conditions for it. I have to say, whether someone liked it or not, Mr. Mladjan Dinkic, who has done a lot to bring these international loans closer, in the division of business, has taken the task along with Diana and are doing it for now, according to my assessment, impeccable. The moment I feel like someone's not working honestly on that team, I'll back off. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-01-0.u21487	The word is made by the People's MP Vladan Jeremic. The SRS parliamentary group is available for 37 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-01-0.u21488	Fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, in favour of today's assembly debate on these draft laws on the granting of a guarantee from the Republic of Serbia for the "Societ Generale", that is, the United Bank, and by the authority of the Public Enterprise "The Ways of Serbia", I intend to present on behalf of the SRS Parliamentary Group several data that indicate, I would say, on the fundamentally bad concept of running an economic policy of the Government or, rather, an excellent concept, but a constant borrowing of the state, which is precisely what these two draft laws are asking us to do today. Much is speculated about restructuring and borrowing, however, what is evident is data, i.e. an analysis of the responsibility of the Republic of Serbia, where it is unequivocally demonstrated and proves that in the area of foreign borrowing, extremely negative trends have been brought forward which, above all, are seen in an enormous increase in the total amount of external debt and thus the degree of duty of the country. What does that mean in translation? This means that in the coming period, the state of Serbia could fall into a serious debt crisis, as well as by counterpart Aleksic, who, in co-operation with the effects of the current global financial crisis, could have extremely negative effects on Serbia's economy. Economists know this well, but for the sake of the public, the level of one country's debt is measured on the basis of various indicators by comparing the total debt, assets and interest, on the one hand, and the annual social product, monetary reserves, total exports and current foreign exchange inflow, on the other hand. The most frequently measured duty is when placed in relation to external debt annuities according to the current foreign exchange inflow. The country's debt indicator can also be the ratio of the structure of foreign assets and social products, the participation of foreign funds in total investments, the cumulative leap of foreign investment in the social product. For most of the indicators, Serbia, ladies and gentlemen, is an over-indebted country. The degree of Serbian debt, measured by the quantitative ratio of debt and exports, looked like this: the debt at the end of 2003, for example, was 3.11 times higher than the export of goods and services in that year; in 2004 it was around 2.78 times the annual export of goods and services; in 2005 it was 2.34 times; in 2006. 2.28, which is above the line for high-indebted countries, according to the World Bank's criteria. Thus, unfortunately, our country ranks as very in charge countries, along with Bulgaria, Brazil, Croatia, Turkey, Kazakhstan, etc. This is the Global Finance Development data. The comparisons for the sake of our old state's debts, Yugoslavia, which in the 1980s was considered an overindebted country, did not exceed $22 billion. The debts of these six countries, which were created in former SFRY's premises, are now much higher, in which Croatia and Serbia are ahead, and only Serbia's debt exceeds the amount of the SFRY debt in 2007. The volume and dynamics of foreign funds in Serbia since 2000 can be seen through a accumulated surplus of financial transactions and an increase in net external debt. Serbia's foreign debt in 2006, expressed in dollars, is 81% higher than in 2000, and expressed in euros -- by 28%. The internal debt in 2007 increased by 142% compared to 2000 and expressed in euro by 53%. The inflow of accumulation from foreign sources is absorbed through the balance of payments deficits. A high accumulated surplus of financial transactions in Serbia between 2000 and 2007, and it is clear that this is the period during which a continuous economic policy is being conducted and it is known who is in charge of it, the only thing that comes to terms in the chairs, is the result of increased use of medium- and long-term foreign loans, as well as some inflows of net foreign investment. The import of capital allowed Serbia to temporarily finance the current balance deficit, thanks to which it is not forced to increase exports at all costs, but it is clear that the time will soon come to secure a foreign debt inflow. Serbia's internal debt increased from $10,830,000,000, equivalent to 11658,000 euros in 2000 to $2,226,000,000 in 2007, and the total foreign debt is estimated to be around $30 billion today. What I would also like to point out during today's discussion is the fact that Serbia's external debt structure is also something that is causing quite a misunderstanding and various speculations, however, there is clear that extremely negative tendencies have been shown. In fact, in the already mentioned period from 2000 to 2008, public sector debt is moving around the $9 billion figure. However, private sector debt was almost negligible in 2000 to reach $17.1955,000 in 2007. The story of a private sector debt is not a big problem for our economy, it is clear that it does not drink water, because when the time comes, there can always be a problem of debt service by the state and the burden of payment can fall, in the extreme line, on all citizens, as was the case in the time of the major debt crisis in 1983, at a time when the federal government, I think that Milka Planinc was then president, under the pressure of these foreign creditors, had to accept the payment of the total foreign debt, therefore, both public and private. The private sector's debt, on the contrary, is a much bigger problem because its structure is unfavourable. So, in the financial sector's segment of debt to the banking sector, the smaller part is waste, and the majority is related to licking. So we're in charge of buying goods on leases, equipment, etc., which means that this private sector is not in debt abroad to invest in production and speed up economic activity. Therefore, under the conditions of high duty, and it is clear that the state of Serbia, or its citizens, is precisely in such conditions, when the time comes to pay off debts, the economy becomes too burdensome to deliver goods or services abroad for a longer period of time to pay off debts. In such a situation, and we are witnessing it, the country's consumption is reduced, workers' earnings are reduced, raw materials are exhausted, etc. It may take a few years, but when it crosses a certain line of business, it calms down and reduces the resources from which the debts are paid. As a result of the reorientation to import inputs in industrial production, the net foreign exchange effect of exports is reduced. It is clear that Serbia's economic growth in the period from 2000 to 2000 marks lower growth rates compared to foreign inflow rates, i.e. an increase in the country's debt during the observed period. Insistent funds are no longer sufficiently allocated to production, which could possibly provide some kind of economic growth. Serbia's external debt from 2000 to 2007, this is an interesting data, grew at an average annual rate of 13.5%, expressed in dollars, while the average annual increase in external debt was 6.22%. Over the same period, the average annual growth rate of Serbia's gross domestic product is only about 5.5%, which means that the increased inflow of foreign funds did not adequately follow an increase in the rate of economic growth. We only remember stories for 2009, when it comes to GDP, and then, anyway, the low percentage is further reduced. All of this, as you could hear, practically points to this generally bad picture that we have in this area, therefore, to a credit borrowing policy that only creates a bad business, or economic environment in the country in the long term, however we define it, as a restructuring or as something else, investment, but it's clear what it's really about. And what we are discussing today, i.e. these two draft laws, new loans, as well as what happened to us some months or two ago, which is the latest loan taken over by the IMF, announcements of an increase in the budget deficit and so on, clearly indicates that Serbian citizens will feel it through living standards, but by being lower from day to day. The biggest problem in this whole story is that no one is responsible for everything that's been done. However, I sincerely hope that this will change in due course. And only the business of the Public Enterprise "Serbia's Ways" best depicts the country's path with such a regime and government. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-01-0.u21489	Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer declared for the word, before the conclusion of a joint principled search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or representatives of the parliamentary groups who have more time at their disposal, or anyone else who has not used their right to Article 93. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly? No, I don't. ( b) Proposers? No, I don't. ) I conclude a joint principled search on the proposal for a law on the granting of a guarantee from the Republic of Serbia in favour of the "Societ Generale", Paris, France, under the responsibility of the Public Enterprise "The Ways of Serbia" and the proposal for a law on the granting of a guarantee from the Republic of Serbia in favour of Unicredit Bank Serbia a.d. Belgrade under the responsibility of the Public Enterprise "The Ways of Serbia". We move to the 3rd item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of Taxes on the Income of Citizens (Principles) You have adopted a bill submitted by the Government. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, are five hours, as well as that this time is allocated to MPs' groups of MPs in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group: Parliament Group For European Serbia – one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; SRS Group - one hour, eight minutes and 24 seconds; Parliament Group G17 plus – 28 minutes and 48 seconds; DSS MP Group - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; MP Group Progress Serbia – 25 minutes and 12 seconds; MEP Group SPS - 18 minutes; MEP Group LDP – 14 minutes and 24 seconds; Parliament group Nova Serbia – 10 minutes and 48 seconds;Send Group of minorities – eight minutes and 24 seconds and PUPS - six minutes. According to Article 93(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, Members of Parliament who are not members of any parliamentary group, have the right to speak each and every one, up to five minutes. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. I would like to inform you that according to this agenda item of the parliamentary group, the MP Lidija Dimitrijevic, the SRS parliamentary group, the MP Rade Obradovic, the DSS-Vojislav Kostunica and the MEP for the European Serbian People's MP Gorica Mojovic. Given that the time to exchange and transfer notice was sent to the secretary of the Serbian Parliament by Mr. Veljkovic: "Dear Mr. Odalovic, I would like to inform you that on Monday, 1 June 2009, since 17.00 hours, due to previous programme obligations to transfer matches from the Roland Garos tennis tournament and the broadcast of the "Hello Europe" quiz, we will not be able to follow the meeting of the Serbian Assembly in direct transmission to RTS 2. In the hope of understanding, we warmly welcome you," I still cannot read the name, "Secretary Veljkovic. “ According to Article 142, paragraph 1. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a principle search on the bill. Does the representative of Proposer Diana Dragutinovic, the finance minister, want a word? Yeah. Here you go. The word is Diana Dragutinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-01-0.u21490	Dear Presidency, honourable Members of Parliament, you have before you a bill on amendments to the Law on Tax on Income of Citizens. You'll let me do this on a little dyspression. I would like to remind you that there are four basic types of work contracts in Serbia: employment contracts, temporary and occasional jobs, labour contracts and contracts based on copyright fees. In contrast to the employment contract, the other three types of contracts do not constitute contracts based on a permanent working relationship and can generally be, and are, an additional source of income for employees, i.e. a permanent source of income for the unemployed. The fiscal burden of earnings, which is actually a dominant source of income from work, is in any case a reference value. When we talk about the fiscal burden of earnings, it is often spoken in the jargon, which does not mean that it is in the professional language, that 100 dinars of net earnings are burdened with 65 dinars of taxes and contributions. I purposely wanted to highlight this difference between the jargon expression of fiscal burden and what is really a standard, which is a tax and contribution ratio relative to the cost of profit. According to this indicator, which is an official indicator measuring the degree of fiscal burden, the fiscal burden of profit as a benchmark is approximately 40%. The next type of contract is temporary and occasional contracts. They are subject to an entirely identical tax burden. However, up to recently adopted amendments to the Income Tax Act, labour contracts, and particularly contracts based on copyright fees, had different treatment. The fiscal burden of 100 dinars of net fee was on average 33.7 dinars, in some cases 26.6 and 48.3 dinars, respectively, or in some cases 37.3 for unemployed workers. Recent amendments to the Law were practically aimed at equating tax treatment of copyright fees with a long-term treatment of labour contracts for employees. I'm sure none of you have anything against the so-called. Taxes of fairness. Tax justice says that people who make the same income have to single out the same taxes and contribute and that is definitely the cornerstone of the modern tax system. However, after everything that has been happening since the moment of adoption of this law so far, I have learned to change rapidly, regardless of, say, the right direction of change and regardless of the motive for creating a fair fiscal system, they are not good. I would especially like to stress that it is not disputed that we need a new law on income tax for citizens. However, we also need changes in the Social Insurance Contributions Act to equalise the treatment of all copyright fees, regardless of whether the fees are employed or not, when it comes to social security contributions. Meanwhile, until we change the Law on Income Tax and until we change the Social Insurance Contribution Act, these new amendments are basically just a change in Article 56 relating to the normised costs. I remind you that the tax revenues from copyright and other related rights are actually the difference between gross income and normised costs. Until these changes are adopted, normised costs, for example, for craft work, artistic ceramics, wall painting, etc. They were 60% gross incomes. For painting, graphics and other works, scientific and professional works, performance of works of art - 50%. For ester programs, emission production, database production - 40%. I remind you that a member of 57 recognizes the full cost. So, before the law was changed, the normised costs were 60, 50 and 40%. In order to equalise tax treatment, they were changed to 30, 20 and 20%. These changes suggest that basically the tax burden on copyright fees is increased by 15%, so 15%, not 15%, to 50, 43 and 34%. Waiting for a new law, please support these changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-01-0.u21491	Does the rapporteur of the Finance Committee National MP Branko Ljiljak, deputy chairman of the Committee, want a word? No, I don't. ) Does the rapporteur of the Legislative Committee, MP Vlatko Ratkovic, want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or authorised representatives of parliamentary groups, want the word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Cedomir Jovanovic, and the People's MP Radoje Obradovic, followed by Lidija Dimitrijevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-01-0.u21492	Mrs. Komic, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs. Dragutinovic, as much as our memory serves, we discussed these laws a month ago. I think we've spent enough time in this congregation and we could admit some mistakes to each other when there are mistakes. (Diana Dragutinovic: I think I did it. ) Here, in the light of the changes and addition of this law, mentions the need to create conditions for further equating fiscal burdens on natural persons' income under copyright, etc. In fact, it's about the inability of the government to implement the law that it passed under the laws that followed the budget rebalance. That's all it's about. And we, then, are going to do it today, point out the importance of a completely different approach to the public finances of the country. You're gradually agreeing to something like this, so you suggested a pretty good budget rebalance after a bad budget rebalance in 2008 and a slightly worse budget, which we discussed at the end of 2008. So the state can't pass laws that it can't apply afterwards, so that in parliament it asks for support and understanding to amend those laws without providing any assurance and conviction that at least she learned something from the mistakes she's made. What's wrong with this law? Well, the problem is... and this is particularly relevant at this time of the fight against corruption and crime, which is the Light Motive of our policy, so the ministers, the presidents, are announcing the arrests, which are about to come, so there will be people in power... Well, that's what we survived once, it's not original; when he didn't know what to do Milosevic was announcing a fight against corruption and crime and, as a rule, he found the bad guys in his ranks. And you know who did it before Milosevic. So if we are talking about these laws then we must very responsibly highlight our incompetence, as a parliament, to define the laws that this society will be able to respect. Because, to that end, when you burden someone with taxes paid on copyright fees, then there's nothing left to run into a gray zone, avoiding tax obligations, and it's more or less the logical consequence of such rigid laws. The laws to be adopted shall be adopted in accordance with the high needs of the State, which does not see a way of providing the necessary means to comply with its obligations, except for one rigid tax policy. So we will soon re-change the laws that followed budget rebalances, because at this point the government is negotiating with universities. The universities pointed to the unsustainability of their position in time if the government takes all the funds they make. When we discussed budget rebalancing, we warned you about something like that. And now we repeat the same thing: we are in favour of defining a clear and fair tax system, we have nothing against it, but when will this tax reform be implemented if not now that we need the most effective tax policy results? We have institutions in this country that need to take care of it, institutions that care about law enforcement, institutions that have become a threat to citizens, but not to the state itself. On the occasion of the previous point, we discussed the ease with which a public company made a minus 175,000 euros (in particular 300, and now we are covering 175,000 credits), and that for years no one in the state has responded, and here we are facing problems of a state that is powerless to collect taxes that it has prescribed under copyright fees and related contracts. So we have proposed an amendment that we are trying to align point 3 and point 2), i.e. the load for painting works, graphic works, i.e. respecting the normised costs of 43%; that is, point 2). Point 3: interpretation, i.e. the implementation of estheracial entertainment and folk music programmes, production of phonograms, production of videograms, production of emissions, production of databases and other copyright and related rights not listed in points 1) i2) – 34% of gross income. So, the least recognised normised costs are in the most dominant sector, if we talk about scope, because there are definitely more singers, those who record and make videos, record and produce music, from vair and painters in Serbia. So if we recognize the least standard costs to them, and we know that there is no efficient control and collection system anyway, and that something like that is practically impossible, why are we pushing society into the gray zone and from every man who does some part-time work in that sector we're making a potential offender? One system has led us to life at the border of regularity. We bought gas on the street, we traded foreign exchanges on the street, we bought apartments at funny prices of 50 marks, and it was normal, because we live by stealing, that those in power do the same thing, and that no one has the right to ask why our life is the way it is. But today, the state has to pass logical laws. We suggest you increase this percentage of the normised costs that are recognised and to bring it in line with the percentage that is recognised by this point 2) for works of painting, graphic works, industrial design, etc., to raise it from 34 to 43, because this will expand the base in which it will be realistically charged tax. No country has been able to be more creative in tax policy and collect taxes from those who try to avoid tax policies and reduce the percentage of tax burdens, so neither will this one be ours. We stand for liberal tax policy, we can talk about it, but in other situations. Here we warn you that the most explosive part of the policy that you are now trying to regulate is the one that includes the copyright fees defined in point 3) of the amendments and the addition of the law, and that you have recognised the least normised costs. I think it's better to be fair and open up the possibility of people paying taxes, not pushing them into tax evasion, because that's how they and the state themselves are going to get hurt. As long as the tax policy doesn't adapt to the opportunities of our society and, on the other hand, it gets to know society with the consequences of such a relationship, we'll have a bottomless hole. Here in Serbia, it is natural to call for free schooling, free treatment, entire low-free services, effective social policy, and on the other hand, when the country's ability to provide such a provision we face resistances in situations where the state is looking for these funds. We must draw the line and tell what this country is capable of offering its citizens. And despite the minimum resources we have at this point, we must have a clear vision. We suggest you pay much more attention to that vision than to the figures themselves. So, to lower that pressure and raise the possibility of accepting tax policy as something that is normal and that goes with civil status in this country. If tax policy is illogical, if the tax burdens are as rigid as they are, then it will be destroyed and avoided, and that is neither your interest nor ours, as opposition parties who want to change the economic system in our society. Liberal tax policy is the answer to the crisis. The answer to the crisis is exactly that. Tax policy cannot in itself be a solution to this crisis, but it can be an element that is important, in fact, a prerequisite for getting out of the situation in which we are, which is particularly chaotic because it is not due to world disturbances but the fact that in the changed circumstances that have arisen in the world economy all our weaknesses have come to a much greater extent than this was the case without the world crisis itself. That's our common problem. Governments change. The ministers are leaving and coming for a new one, but we're all the hostages of a misdefined tax system. Tax reform was carried out in 2001. The results of this reform are more or less correct, if we are talking about establishing some basic preconditions for the normal functioning of the country. We introduced value added tax in 2004, so we liberalized tax policy by looking for foreign investment, liberalizing tax policy by affirming the stock market. We've pulled those reliefs in the meantime, and now we're about to start over. That start makes sense if we don't make mistakes. A month ago, we defined the normative costs and percentages that are recognised. We're changing that now, because it was misrepresented. If we establish new principles, let them be understandable to everyone. It doesn't make sense to drive people into an illegal life, to avoid taxes, just because they can't respect those laws. The laws must be logical. We suggest that you accept our amendment, to level the positions 2 and 3, to accept the normised costs of 43%. And we know that you can't do that, because with these changes, you don't know how you're going to patch up holes that show up like that, even in the budget through projections, especially when it opens up the question of university funding and university funding, or the funds that universities get on their own. The state is completely taking them in. Then the 40% will be transferred to scholarships and students, because the university can't function without it. This is our common problem, which we can solve with respect for a few simple truths. Bad law has been passed; we're changing that law, but because it was bad. We're sending citizens a message that we've made a mistake, that we don't want to live by paralysing on them, that this country has to work, that there's a sign of equality between rights and obligations. This point makes sense, but it doesn't make sense after the previous point, because we saw that you could spend 175,000 or 300,000 euros without anyone answering for it. Now citizens have to pay taxes to cover such damage, among other things. These are differences between the LDP and the ruling coalition. Liberal tax policy, an acceptable tax base with a tax rate, a wide tax space, not narrow, but very wide. Of course, those who have the most should pay the most. Since they pay the most, they deserve respect and respect. Until such relations are established, we will live in a land where anything is possible, all is allowed and therefore no one will be satisfied. You will receive support for these amendments and additions to the law. I suggest you accept this amendment. Of course, we will support it without that amendment, but the law with the amendment will be better; we will support it because we are providing support and we are trying to protect those who have suffered damage because of a bad law.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-01-0.u21493	Before I give my word to Mr. Radojko Obradovic, a notice sent to the parliamentary groups. I believe that on the basis of Article 27, I should inform you that the president of the National Assembly is Ms Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, based on Article 204. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and, on a proposal from the SRS and LDP parliamentary groups, set a Day for Answering Parliamentary Questions on the current topic. She set Tuesday, June 2nd 2009, starting at 12.00 hours, as the Day for Answering Parliamentary Issues on the current topic, and on the basis of a proposal from the SRS parliamentary group from 29 April 2009. The current topic, proposed by the parliamentary group, was: "The reference and participation of professional members of the Serbian Army, civil protection personnel and employees in the authorities of the government of the Republic of Serbia in peace operations and other activities abroad". To answer questions on the subject, Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic, Dragan Sutanovac, Defence Minister and Vuk Jeremic, Foreign Minister. On the basis of Article 205, the LDP parliamentary group proposed to answer parliamentary questions on the topic: "Determining the responsibility of Deputy Prime Minister Bozidar Djelic and Foreign Minister Vuk Jeremic as the most responsible state officials to stop European integration and the visa waiver process. The reasons for the blockade of the European integration process and the assessment of the planned moves by state authorities and the taking concrete and rapid state policy measures for the deblockation of the European integration process and the abolition of visas for citizens of the Republic of Serbia." The questions on this topic will be answered by Mirko Cvetkovic, Prime Minister Bozidar Djelic, Deputy Prime Minister and Vuk Jeremic, Foreign Minister. I hereby inform you, and this notice has been forwarded to your MP groups. Radojko Obradovic, a folk MP, has the word, followed by a folk MP, Lidija Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-01-0.u21494	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we have one today, in the view of the Democratic Party of Serbia and our parliamentary club, a very important session. In the first two points, we had laws on giving guarantees on two road financing loans, and we had no guarantee in either word that in two years, some similar law would not be re-emerged on the agenda. We heard there was a debt behind every government. It is obvious that the rules, or decisions on business policy, are not respected. We have now come to the point that the Public Enterprise owes significant financial resources; they will be granted credit, but we have not heard a single word about how we will prevent this and some other public enterprises from having a similar business. Now we're discussing income tax law. We are especially grateful that you have proposed this law. You know, you've learned a lot in the past 20 days since this law was passed, but if Deputy Prime Minister Djelic advocates, we'll probably have another law in the next few days, because the Vice-President of the Government is very much talking about not respecting the Budget Law, regarding those own incomes concerning higher education institutions. We thought the government had an education minister, it is Mr. Obradovic, and Mr. Djelic is probably involved in science and European integration, but if he advocates it, we will obviously also discuss the law. We passed this law on April 29th, and on May 21st, we got it again. It's an emergency procedure again. Whether it's a coincidence or a intention, but the reasons for the emergency procedure are entirely identical. You once told us that the solutions of April 29th are extremely important so that things in Serbia don't stop; you are now practically returning us with this law to some previous solutions, but again with the same argument and the same explanation. It is this law that proves what we have been saying – that you, in fact, have absolutely no strategy and that you are acting from today to tomorrow. What is not said today is that these two laws, i.e. these three laws and the result of the arrangement with the International Monetary Fund. How? If you carefully read the arrangement, you will also find laws related to tax policy, but also to the obligations of the state, related to the business of the Public Enterprise "The Ways of Serbia". Twenty days after the signing of the arrangement or, if you will, five days after the law arrived on May 21st and the arrangement was concluded on May 15th, the Serbian government did everything to bring down the arrangement with the International Monetary Fund. If you think that's how you can treat the Serbian Parliament because you're doing it here, I'm not sure it'll work with the International Monetary Fund. When you carefully look at our arrangement with the International Monetary Fund, the real decline in gross social product is expected to be about 2%, that inflation will be about 10%, that the current account deficit will decrease. It's more than clear, and you said the other day that we'll probably be looking for a deficit increase; it's more than clear that inflation at best can be that much, and the question is what happens with the deficit. On page 4 of the agreement, in the field of costs, it was said that salaries in the public sector would freeze. When you look at the newsletter that you're issuing, then that salary fund grows from month to month. There'll be frozen employment. I didn't bring it, but you can take my word for it, every day you can see ads for the reception of new officials in the state administration. What kind of freezing with that reception, I'd like to know. As for the nominal freezing of pensions, I would like Mr. Colakovic or Mr. Krkobic to say so. They don't exactly agree with what it says here, and it seems to me that the pre-election slogan in the Zemun campaign was that, in fact, the only man who said "no" to the IMF was Deputy Prime Minister Krkobic. I'd like to see if this frozen pay item stays or in any of the amendments to the law will be revised. As for shifting 40% of its own revenues to the Republic of Serbia's budget, Vice President Djelic says more, as he explains daily that this situation is unsustainable and needs to be changed. I don't understand why the government of the Republic of Serbia is tearing down the arrangement with the International Monetary Fund. Otherwise, Article 18, page 6, of this Agreement speaks of the urgent elimination of the lagging debt "The Way of Serbia" and the reconciliation of future obligations. Therefore, it is also a commitment to an arrangement with the International Monetary Fund. I don't know how the IMF will view the 21st point of this agreement, which speaks of tracking and delivering fiscal data. Since the National Assembly doesn't get that information, I don't know if they'll agree with a similar reporting method. I'll refer to our favorite law, the Budgetary System Act. Although I must admit, there is significant progress here – we have previously violated Article 14. (on the budget calendar), and then we violated Article 15, related to the memorandum, and now, obviously, we're progressing, we're only violating Article 70. You have an obligation as a government to provide us with a budget inspection report. Yes, Article 70. The law on the budgetary system establishes the obligation of your ministry to submit reports to the government and that the government is giving these reports to the Serbian Parliament. There are no reports. One reason is probably that the budgetary inspectors have only eight, but I'm not sure that's in line with the contract signed and the arrangement with the IMF, which provides for monitoring and fiscal responsibility. We, as a parliamentary group, addressed the President of the Assembly and the Prime Minister with a request that, in accordance with the Budgetary System Act, this report be delivered to us. I find it rather complicated to cite any breach of the arrangement with the International Monetary Fund, which was concluded just a few days ago. But let's look at the deadlines that define the arrangement: the business plan "The Way of Serbia" - by the end of May. I have carefully read "The Official Messenger", there is no business plan "The Way of Serbia". Today is June 1st, which means the end of May is over. The government is due to adopt business plans for state-owned enterprises in late May. The last I found was the February official messenger, it was far before the contract was launched and there are business plans for "Transnafta", "Srbigas" and some other companies. I don't think there are any business plans either, or the National Assembly hasn't been informed of that either. As far as this law is concerned, one thing is whether these solutions are good, the other thing is whether we're going to wait for a whole law, and the whole third thing is whether we're changing the important things and the essential conditions that exist in the country day by day. We will talk during this debate about various examples that we face practically daily. One condition applies today, and some are completely different a few days later. This is an obvious example of what we have been saying and an obvious example that and that there was also a serious session to discuss the crisis exit strategy and which would then be much more binding for the Government of the Republic of Serbia, but also for all other state bodies. As for our parliamentary club, we can support this law, but in the course of the week we will make a request to hold an extraordinary session of the Assembly, with a theme – a strategy to get out of the crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-01-0.u21495	The word has a folk letter from Lidija Dimitrijevic, followed by a national envoy, Jorvanka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-01-0.u21496	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, at the fifth session of the First Regular Session, which was held a month ago, more precisely, from 24 to 29 April, in a great hurry, to take advantage of the absence of most of the SRS MPs, a draft amending and supplementing the Law on Income Tax was found on the agenda. The bill was passed on April 29th, and its application began on May 8th. Today it is again on the agenda of the extraordinary session of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Income Tax, but this time the amendments concern only one part of the changes already made. It is about establishing the tax base of a taxpayer who pays income tax on copyright, copyright rights related to copyright and industrial property rights. In Article 55, it is defined to tax income from copyright and related rights and industrial property rights the difference between gross income and the cost the obligor had in the establishment and preservation of income, unless otherwise prescribed by this law. Furthermore, Article 56 refers to normised costs and Article 57 to actual costs. Article 56 sets out the amount of normised costs and was subject to change in April. It was then decided that instead of 60% of gross income, the normised costs of 30% gross income to the obligor - the author, i.e. the bearer of related rights, for the craftsmanship, tapestries, artistic ceramics, ceramics, mosaic and vista, for art photography, wall painting and painting in the space in techniques: fresco, graphics, intarsion, e-mail, intruded and e-mailed objects, costumeography, fashion creation and textile art processing, thinking of fabric and printed textiles, etc. In these taxpayers, instead of 40%, the tax share of income was 70% of gross income. Further, instead of the original 50% of gross income, the normised costs of 20% of gross income for painting works, graphic works, industrial design with design and model design, fine plastics, works of visual communication, works in the field of interior architecture and the processing of façades, design of space, works in the field of horticulture, performing artistic supervision of works in the field of internal and façade architecture, designing space and horticulture with design and design, artistic solutions for the design, scientific, scientific, professional, literary and publicistic works, translation, music and cinematographic works, restoration and conservation works in the fields of culture and art, for performing works (playing and singing, theatre and film acting, recitation) are recognised, film recording, ideas and non-tasking are recorded in the art. The tax share of income, instead of 50%, increased to 80% of gross income in these taxpayers. The following paragraph refers to the recognition of the normised costs, instead of the original 40% of gross income, to 20% of gross incomes to bonds for interpretation, i.e. the implementation of escrow programmes of fun and folk music, the production of phonograms, production of videograms, production of emissions, production of databases and other copyright and related rights not listed in points 1) and 2) of this Article. In these taxpayers, the tax share is 80%, instead of the original 60% gross income. Given that the inflow of revenue in the budget was reduced in the first four months of this year, the government did a budget rebalance already in April, usually done before the end of the year. On this occasion, in order to allegedly reduce public spending, the Law on temporary wage cuts, i.e. earnings, net fees and other revenues in the state administration and the public sector was adopted. In order to increase budget revenues, the tax on the use of motor vehicles, mobile phones, water facilities, aircraft and aircraft has been increased. The biggest damage to this is the owners of old-fashioned cars of large cubicity. Excise oil derivatives were then increased, although it was already done in January this year. Amendments and additions to the Law on Income Tax have been adopted. As of 8 May, income tax is paid to citizens on the basis of a purchase price charge obtained by the sale of capital in the process of privatising social and state capital, which is paid to a natural person in accordance with the 200-euro law in the dinar equivalent for each full year of employment in the privatisation process. Until now, this tax has not been paid, according to Article 9. Law on income tax on citizens. In the part relating to the capital tax, the change in Article 63 refers to the taxed capital income on the basis of dividends and share in profits, i.e. on the basis of the right to a proportional part of the income of the investment unit for the resident of the Republic of Serbia. They now account for 80%, instead of 50% so far, gross dividends or shares in profits paid i.e. distributed to the obligor, i.e. income from the investment unit by proportion. It also increased the tax share of income from copyright and related rights and industrial property rights, as it decreased the percentage in which the normised costs are recognised. Following the adoption of such a bill, sharp public reactions, employers' associations, cultural and non-governmental directors, who referred to this last part, followed an increase in income tax from copyright and related rights. Serbia's crisis staff issued a statement requiring the immediate abolition of a member of Serbia's 6th new Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Income Tax. The statement states that any future change in tax rates should not be considered without public debate and consultation with those concerned. The following part of the statement is extremely interesting, which says: "The urgency of harmonising with the standards of the International Monetary Fund must never again be cited as a reason for such thoughtless and harmful solutions. “ They then point out that they remain open as state partners in designing a policy of gradual tax reduction on copyright fees from next year, which would follow the pace of Serbia’s announced economic recovery. Based on this latest act, it could be concluded that they believed Mladjan Dinkic that the crisis in Serbia had begun to pass. And the Ministry of Culture came forward on this occasion. A statement by the ministry estimated that the changes and additions of April could lead to cultural institutions in a position of inability to meet artistic and financial obligations towards hired associates. The position of the Ministry of Culture is that amendments to the Law on Income Tax will negatively affect artistic creation and the work of artists themselves. To all of this, Mladjan Dinkic said that if there are no other solutions, the tax level will be returned to an earlier fixed percentage. Of course, when he says something, all citizens are sure it won't be like that. In front of the MPs of the National Assembly, the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Tax on Income of Citizens is a draft law. Only this section relating to the taxation of copyright and related rights is amended, but not as Mr Dinkic has promised - the amount of tax will not be returned to the previously established percentage. Namely, for the first group of debtors, which were initially recognised as normable costs of 60% and reduced to 30% in April, are now recognised at 50% of gross income, which means 10% less than the original solution. For the second group of debtors, which recognised 50% of the normised costs, in April it was reduced to 20%, are now recognised at 43% of gross income, which is 7% less. For the third group of debtors, 40% of the normised costs were initially recognised. A 20% reduction has been made, and now it is proposed to recognise normised costs to 34%, which is 6% lower than the original solution. In this way, the tax burden of artists will be reduced, but contributions to the copyright contract will still be greater than before the amendment of the Law on Tax on Income of Citizens. I believe that the citizens of Serbia, of whom the vast majority are facing and trying to cope with the negative effects of the global economic crisis, stand by people of culture and art and believe it is necessary for the state to reduce the tax burden it has imposed on them, because the fact is that for many years the situation in culture and art in Serbia is very bad. I only mention a few statements by members of the Coordination Committee of Artistic Associations in which they point to the most significant problems in these areas. They express pessimism about the situation in culture and point to the particularly difficult position of independent artists. Independent artists depend practically on the good will of the city to pay them contributions, minimally, and given the absence of the market and a small number of galleries, it depends practically on whether they will arrive at a single exhibition annually, for which they can get about 50,000 dinars, which is a condition for contributions. A large number of cities in the interior don't pay any contributions at all. Big problems are met by ballet artists. They are guaranteed by the law by a benefactor, but at the same time forbids them to retire and to meet the conditions. Also, the big problem is the lack of academy for ballet artists, which is why they cannot compete for leading jobs in institutions, nor teach in colleges, and are in an unequal position in terms of salary levels compared to actors. The artists welcomed the announcement of the Republic's jurisdiction to local self-government. They feel that this should not happen before the area is legally regulated, so that it does not happen to privatise cultural institutions to turn the new owners of the facility into shopping centres after five years, as they are, as a rule, in excellent locations. I just want to say a quick word about one appearance in Leskovac, a town I come from. More than six decades in Leskovac there is a School of Textile and Design. First, it was the First Textile School, and by introducing a course plan for the design of textiles, graphic design, interior design and industrial products it was renamed the School of Textile and Design. These school directions are written by the best and most talented students, both from Leskovec and other cities. But most of them do not plan to stay in Serbia. It is their desire and intention to leave here after completed studies, precisely because the situation in our culture and art has been bad for years. Because of the public, I will remind you that at the end of 2006, Mladjan Dinkic visited Leskovac. On this occasion, Dinkic handed a check to the National Theatre in Leskovac for 14,000,000 dinars to adapt the roof of a theatre building that has existed since 1896. This is just the beginning, he said. To this day, here will soon be full of three years, that check is not realised. I would also like to remind you that the actors of the dyed folk theatre regularly win awards at festivals in Šapac, Jagodina and Piroth. I want to believe that what the ruling majority is now doing is in the interest of taxpayers mentioned in Article 56, which is bonds that pay income tax on copyright, related rights and industrial property rights. Among them, let me rephrase, the vayars, painters, fashion designers, writers, musicians, actors, those who deal with the art processing of textiles and others. I said that I wanted to believe that the level of tax on these bonds is reduced because of them and the difficult situation in which they are located, however, it is doubtful that after the adoption of the amendments and the additions in April and by way of the law after several days, more specifically on 13 May, NGOs appeared. They have seen an increase in the rate of income tax from copyright fees as a measure of the government to curb the consequences of the economic crisis. Here's what they say, I'll read one part: "We point to this problem with a feeling of deep concern and anxiety, because these measures contain a dangerous threat to stifle not only ongoing and upcoming projects that financially support international donors from the public and private sectors, but also the basic activity of NGOs, humanitarian and charity actions, scientific and other research, the work of free journalists, work in culture and art, will all be affected by this measure. NGOs have repeatedly warned that the position of these groups and organisations in today's Serbia is far from what should be in a democratic society with the rule of law. In addition to the lack of a solid legal framework that would clearly define their character of socially useful and non-profit entities, NGOs, and especially those who fight for the protection and promotion of human rights, basic protection is needed from attacks by individuals, groups, organisations and parties considered by traitors and foreign mercenaries. Already, the circumstances affect potential donors when considering conditions for granting support, as good relations between the Serbian government and civil society organisations are often assumed in overcoming the country's burning problems. Long before the adoption of the latest legislation and while ignoring repeated NGO requirements to open a debate on the exemption of NGOs as non-profit organisations from the obligation to pay taxes, civil society associations were treated in the same way as any commercial undertaking, i.e. Their financial operations were burdened by high taxes, as if they were business entities. In addition, financial support for NGOs projects further hampers legal uncertainty, general and security risks, exchange rate fluctuations, significant outflows of funds for purposes other than projects, high bank commissions, etc. We hope there is no dispute that NGOs in Serbia are dealing with projects related to promoting civic values and democratic institutions, without patching up budget gaps and touching public spending, which has exceeded all the frameworks. We are also sure that tax bonds in Europe or the United States would not be glad to find out that their money is crumbling to support bureaucracy in Serbia. These dragon measures will hit the most direct and brutal NGOs in Serbia and their ongoing projects, and force potential donors to think twice before deciding whether to support new project ventures. These reasons were managed by NGOs in Serbia when they insisted on adopting modern and EU-based legislation, which would define NGOs and other civil society associations and their activities as socially desirable and beneficial, and for the financial aspect of their work, a clear system of criteria applicable to non-profit entities. The government, which won the election by riding on a wave of promises of Serbia's European future, today uses the economic crisis in the world as an excuse for its own failures and sacrifices associations of civil society, experts, artists and cultural workers, as if they are guilty of these failures. Therefore, it is essential that the Government and the parliament of the Republic of Serbia review these legal changes that are meant to punish civil society associations for contributing to their activities, as well as to speed up the adoption of relevant laws that would finally define the conditions for their development and operation freed from administrative, tax and any other disciplines imposed on them by the authorities. “ They then gave the following forecast: “If new tax contributions remain in force and the authorities continue to ignore the dramatic necessity to define favourable legal, administrative, fiscal frameworks for the smooth development of civil society physionomy, Serbia will continue to fall on one of the most important exams that must be passed as a potential candidate for EU membership, and to slow down the development walk towards a free and open society based on the rule of law and effective democratic institutions. “ The end of the quote. That is what was decisive for the government in Serbia to decide to cut the income tax from copyright fees after all. It was enough for those who financed the idea of a democratic society in Serbia to show that they could fall on exams they had to pass as candidates for EU membership, and Serbian rulers did so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-01-0.u21497	The word has been made by the MP Mr. Jorvanka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-01-0.u21498	The fact that we are discussing again today the Law on Tax on Income of Citizens says that the power to decide on these tax regulations lies outside the institutions, if not completely, and in one good part, is indeed out of this institution, because all warnings in the adoption of this law, in the sense of showing unnecessary equalisation in the obligations of citizens at a higher level as insufferable, in terms of tax burden, did not come under the approval of those who decided on it – the Government, the Ministry of Finance. But that is why the pressure of some groups outside the Republika Srpska Assembly has produced fruit and has led to the government's delivery of penitentiary changes and coercion to Mrs. Minister within two weeks, I am not happy that this review of the law explains by its consciousness and science, that it should not make sudden changes and that it really does not doubt its good motives and good direction of change. In our Serbian language, it is called euphemism for the expression of error. It's no big deal to make mistakes and mismeasures, so make it right. It is terrible not to hear the warnings of those whom the people here have sent to warn you in time, not to respect it, and then to react to the pressures on the other side by going back to those same MPs with a law that you usually return to the earlier level. I don't belong to an opposition who has a habit of opposing everything that comes from the other side, but I really do mind if the opposition to a constructive opposition, such as the Serbian Progressive Party, is experiencing that it immediately gives birth to self-defense and urge to survive, as if by criticism we are jeopardizing your position. Since all these tax regulations are in some way, in the most direct way and in an indirect way, related to the need to adapt to what is called reality, the ability to finance our costs and to take the IMF loan into the framework of this possibility, I will indeed, before I say a word about the law, to take advantage of the opportunity and ask – I am not an expert on the Constitution, but if you tell me that the National Assembly is not the place to ratify that three billion-euro loan agreement, I am really wondering, and what in this country is a higher instance? Who has more power, more power, or who is better to you as a government than a problem, and who is your better excuse to the people? I haven't had a hard time looking at the Constitution since your last presentation, this book that speaks of your rights and our obligations. By comparing the powers of the Parliament and the authority of the government, I have seen that it is still possible to ratify that contract here. The government's competences are to establish and conduct politics, enforce laws, propose laws to the National Assembly, direct and coordinate the work of the authorities of the state administration and perform other tasks established by the Constitution and law. Before it, given and chronologically in some members of the Constitution in front of, in the responsibilities of the National Assembly, paragraph 4 states that the National Assembly confirms international contracts when the law provides for the obligation of their confirmation. I ask, is there any law that provides for credit for this type of macroeconomic stability, and that the National Assembly is not listed as the authority that should confirm it? Last week, in the framework of 38 ratifications, we ratified the first third of a $50m loan for macroeconomic stability, where, I made remarks, there are conditions under which we deserve and what we want to achieve. I specifically noted that we are expected to reduce the participation of state, public in banking, insurance, etc., which we saw did not bring good effects. Some $50 million, as a third of the loans we're going to get, we've talked about here, although in a short time, but it was the Assembly that was supposed to ratify it, and for three billion euros, the government (which, otherwise, can be less, not only do other jobs, but can be less than the Assembly), I suppose, signed that contract with the International Monetary Fund. Or, as you often defend yourself to me, you tend to say that the National Bank, because it's for the preservation of foreign reserves, above the government, the Assembly, which normally controls the National Bank, is in a state of responsibility, able, in the capacity to do so, even if you show me that paper? I don't think he has one. What is the explanation when you say – but no country has ratified such an agreement? The defense of “no country ” or“ all earth ” is simply a lack of arguments, or the infirmity of someone who gives me an answer. What does “all do ” or“ no one does ” mean? The original country, the original crisis, the original solutions. Do you need an unnecessarily congregation? Is the Assembly and the work of MPs just a theme for the yellow press, for condemning the number of MPs, for inefficient work, for high costs, or for us, with our modest knowledge and desire to contribute, we can truly qualify as partners and government and all others who care about the welfare of this country? All the time I've been saying that the competition you're pointing us at is a waste of resources. Competition in fixed telephony is obviously unnecessary, since there is no one to invest so much money to compete in a fixed one. The competition in banking, what did it lead to? You know from European experiences – they were punished in time by European banks for the cartel agreement on deposit prices and credit prices, because they were not directed by the competition to lower interest on loans and raise interest on deposits, but rather by caring about their profits. The Assembly has led to the unnecessary competition of the business system and professional services and MPs, the waste of energy to prove to one another whether we need a congregation budget or whether you, as an executive body, are going to give us a share for normal work, as an executive branch of government, with which we are at least equal, let alone that we are allowed to control it. Cooperation is what does not consume natural resources, which imposes criteria for the greatest contributions and better work in all areas. I don't see any reason for you to stand up to us as a congregation. When that doesn't go according to the Constitution and standards, it's the National Bank. Behind the independence of the National Bank lies independence inconceivable to me, incomprehensible to many economists incomprehensible, independent of the interest of a better life of citizens, economic policy, standards and everything else. Even in these statistical laws, we had a case on the agenda that the National Bank could impose special standards beyond international ones, which is, you will allow, outrageously, that the National Bank can keep its research and not give them to you as a government when you work, bring strategies and special measures, but must especially ask for opinions and approval! There is no group in this country, no man who can be made independent in such a way and supported by the budget. You know how many losses we lost because of the wrong policy of the National Bank in 2006 and 2007, when it almost completely annulled the capital it has. Who does this National Bank report to? This assembly. Who does he trade securities with? Who's been granted approval for the value paper trade? Does she have anything to do with our government or not? You can't tell me that the National Bank is independent if it's part of the Serbian state system. It is not possible to sign a contract with the International Monetary Fund to get past the eyes and interests of Serbian citizens, so it is always something that will get us out of the crisis. I said in the last session, about this macro-economic aid loan, it's more in these terms for getting money and for the goals that we need to achieve written about the country's economic policy than in the Budget Memorandum, than in all the documents and explanations you've provided us with. My remarks you can hear or not hear, this debate will pass. No one reads the stenograms, and I won't say it again and talk about it anymore. I warn you there are seeds of misunderstandings and problems, which I will define in the simplest way. People who sit in government, in countless agencies, and we form each other (when we pass a new law on agricultural land, on traffic safety, etc.), prove their expertise and knowledge in one way: the lives of citizens and what they have in their wallet to live in and that they can feel worthy of being humiliated by the lack of money and that human rights are not a hollow story for them. What I'm talking about is neither demagogy nor a principle story, because each of your laws is referred to as "so everyone does", an international experience. But we don't live like everyone else. By applying the measures that others apply, there should be normal consequences and living as others, having such standards, such employment, such paths. We want the same results if we already live under the same conditions. If there's such a gap, so visible, there's obviously a problem. The problem is that you tried to equate us in impotence; that is, your arguments when we did the Law on Income Tax were that we should be equated in tax obligations and that these burdens with all other types of income for natural persons should also be equal. Then I said, and now I repeat, we don't need equalization in the tax burden, we don't need the equalization that's called – no, you won't, you said, refuse that there should be tax harmonisation. These are the basic postulates of tax policies, but there is another one – there is no need to disturb taxpayers and change tax regulations without need. You'll agree, also one of the basic postulates. Does the reasoning of this law that you provide us have an impact assessment, not how much it costs to apply the law, but to assess the effects of the tax changes you make? If such an assessment existed, those who forced you to come back with this bill could not call for a lack of public debate and that there would be adverse consequences if this law did not change. Many of my colleagues have talked about the details of this law, I won't repeat them, but please don't let the form of the interpretation of the law be a hollow shell in which no data stands. Is he in need of funds or necessities? No, I don't. What are the effects of applying, since there are so many and so many taxpayers in the fields of culture, dating, those who earn their bread on the basis of author's fees? This burden will lead to the effects of reducing their income, and the budget will fill, how much? That's the question I'm going to end up with -- how much of the budget is going to be damaged because you've been doing rebalancing with an estimate of these revenues, and now we're reducing them? Can we support your law, knowing that then the effect was x dinar, and now it's going to be ipillon? I'm sorry, this is still the budget, and here not only the percentages, but some of the figures that come out of those percentages need to give us up for or against your law. Because, Madam Minister, you and all of us here exist that behind these figures, behind these numbers we see living people whose laws change life and should make it better, not worse. In that name, I ask you to come to us much more responsibly with this law, because we are not here to make any remarks that will make you feel threatened at political posts, in ministerial posts; our and your joint task, although we are in different political parties, is to cooperate, each in our positions, contributing to what they know and can do, we do something better for these citizens. Help us, we'll help you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-01-0.u21499	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Gorica Mojovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-01-0.u21500	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, I would first of all like to thank the Ministry of Finance and the Government of Serbia for having responded in one effective way to the objections that have appeared in the cultural public of Serbia for the adoption of amendments and the addition of the Law on the income tax of citizens and to the serious, reasoned, justified analysis of cultural public, cultural institutions and associations, not only of statements and flossules made in certain means of information, but of just what was an analysis of the effects of the law that came into force on 8 May. Unfortunately, we MPs, neither am I, and I refer to it as a criticism, we have not acted in the right way, at the right moment, when we have had the opportunity to, in the context of the debate on budget rebalancing and the seven laws, to determine what the effects of this law will be. I have to say, it's not even simple when it comes to different methodologies that account for percentages of growth or decline. This isn't really about increasing the tax rate. The tax rate remains 20%, such as the rest and contributions to pension and health insurance 22% and 12.3%, respectively. This was really about increasing the base of taxation on copyright fees. That legal obligation hit culture the most, and not only, as the Minister said, because it came suddenly, but because it came at a time when we had some other negative circumstances. First of all, the 2009 Ministry of Culture budget was down 26%. Not to repeat what we all know, and the sparrows on the branch – we are indeed in the conditions of a severe economic crisis. If you deprive institutions, cultural institutions, art associations of one part of your budget incomes and direct them to the market and to the achievement of market revenues, and there is no crisis in that market and there are no more sponsors, no more donors, what could be counted on in previous years, and we have in mind Article 15. The budget law that predicts and returns 40% of your own income to the Republic's budget, then you do have a rather dramatic situation, which in some sense threatens the survival of both artists and creators and institutions of culture. I fully agree with the Minister who announces the overall reform, and I can't wait to get to the point where we can handle the tax system in a unique way, but also the system of contributions. At that time, we will likely have the opportunity to discuss the Ministry of Finance's intention to equalise the tax burden on different types of employment contracts, occasionally, labour contracts and copyright contracts, and to discuss whether this is really justified. I'm absolutely certain that even then, as I'm not now, I will not be a supporter of being able to equalize all these types of engagements. You can't even a master who's fixing a bow, who's going to sign an act contract for it, and a violinist who's going to play at a concert. You can't even a carpenter that repairs furniture and a designer that creates this furniture. You can't even a printer who's printing a book and who's writing that book. But then, on this point, I think that before the adoption of these system laws in the field of tax policy, including the policy of contribution, we will have time to actually carry out a broad and thorough discussion on this subject. I would also like to say this: it seems to me that what is now proposed is in the best interest, as far as people who work, those who receive fees, regardless of whether they are independent artists or unemployed, and even employees who receive fees as additional income. Regardless of the fact that it has not been returned to the previous system, this is in some sense solidarity with all those who will one part bear the burden of the crisis. I wouldn't comment much on any suggestions. I see that there are amendments to the fact that this third category, which in the previous period was, whose normable costs were 40%, once again join this 43%. First of all, it's about estradi, it's about most of the people who come from the estherade, and it's sort of destroying the entire system of normized costs. Why was this system of normable costs introduced? In order to recognize artists, timemakers, energy, material, necessary means to invest before their work comes to an audience. So, the time it takes for a writer to prepare a book, the time he needs to teach an actor the role of a musician to prepare a concert, hours, months, days and years of exercise to appear in front of an audience and get a fee for that appearance in front of an audience. I have no objection to the release of estrada, or the recognition of one part of the cost, is this 34%, but I would like to remind, especially Mr Cedomir Jovanovic, that in 2001 and 2002, when the first set of laws in this area was passed, this category was released only by 10%. I would like to say one more thing about the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2009, which refers to Article 15 and to what we now have in public, relating to the University, for the Ministry of Science and Education. I think everyone's doing their job. As for this Article 15, and the obligation for organisations, institutions and all other direct and indirect budget users to return 40% of their revenues to the Republic's budget, that Article 15th in the third indent also provides that the Government of the Republic of Serbia, on a reasoned proposal from the restoring ministry, can change that obligation. On this occasion, I would like to make a public appeal to the Ministry of Culture, which is a resolute ministry and responsibility for cultural institutions, that the same reasoned proposal when it comes to institutions and institutions of culture is directed to the Government for consideration, because if the application of those provisions remains, we will hardly have an even stable situation in the institutions of culture, because with the budget reduced funds and that part of their own income that can be made in the market will return to the budget. All in all, I thank you again. We should not only always criticise, but also commend the Ministry and Government, who are able to respond properly to the observations of the professional public. And let me also say to the MPs, today I read again a stenogram of united debates concerning these seven points, when it comes to rebalancing and following the laws – either I did not read well or I do not know how to read or none of the MPs spoke on this subject in the way we speak today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-01-0.u21501	Thank you. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, they are in conformity with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, pending the opening of a principled search of the application for a word in writing with the order of MPs, submitted parliamentary groups of DSS and SRS. I give my word to MP Milos Aligrudic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-01-0.u21502	Thank you, Vice President. We just heard Mrs. Gorica Mojovic's speech, which is contextual, when it comes to protecting these categories of faces and the reasons why such a law is passed, quite in place, but I would not overly praise the Government for it; you know, she has a folk "until the child cries... “ It’s just a matter of time before I go home. ” When it comes to the need to protect such persons, it is necessary first of all and because of the nature of the work they do. Mrs. Gorica Mojovic has explained very frankly for a little while. I agree with every word, but let's analyze how the Government of the Republic of Serbia works and how we came into this situation. You know, someone once said that if people could know how life was going to happen, if they had the power to predict every minute or every moment of life, and so for the rest of their lives, then that life would be completely pointless, it would be terribly boring, so at one point someone who knows how to know how to go through life from beginning to end probably said, well, then this life doesn't make much sense, it's better to end right now, because I've already experienced everything in my thoughts, my feelings ahead and no reason, actually, for life and I don't. You know, there must be some uncertainty in life. It is likely that this philosophical logic is managed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, very successfully, because why there is certainty, what if there was a plan, a programme, what if we knew what would happen the next day, when we could not know anything about it, when the Government of the Republic of Serbia could surprise itself with its own proposals from month to month, when it did not have one common and clear strategy, exactly as Mrs. Gorica Mojovic said; when probably, since many of them are in the same party as Mrs. Mojovic, she could say before, and what the hearing had not, if she had told them, so that today, a month after the adoption of this law, we are making changes and complementing them with the exact same content, or with the exact same member of the law. So, we didn't have the Income Tax Act here that contained the standard that is changing now, but the norm that we are now changing was passed by this National Assembly a month ago! So, the government of the Republic of Serbia decided that neither they nor the citizens would be bored, that life had no certainty, but that it was full of uncertainty and that it was probably the most fun thing to do. If you are indicated that there is a problem, and that is what we have pointed out in this particular area and this particular article of the law when we have passed a previous law on amendments and additions to the Law on Income Tax, when it was clear that this tax burden was imposed indirectly over the normised costs, i.e. determining the amount of normable costs, it's not right, then it's called an ex-post mind. After a month, it comes to a later sense that this is the way it should be done. Yes, it's probably just the way it should be, but I don't see what bothered the legislator to see it a month ago, what kind of obstructions, what kind of forces, what kind of veils over his eyes were there then that one such solution, intervention in the Law on the income tax of citizens over this category of faces, in the way it was made, wasn't adequate. I know why it was done. That was done out of panic. Make an appropriate arrangement, deprive yourself of the appropriate privileges that the state cannot obtain because you are sending a political message to the international community, more specifically its work - to the European Union, saying that we are dying without EU membership, and even though they will not, here we are, we will, and then all this costs the citizens, and then we are caught by a global economic crisis that you do not have a proper response to today, and then you ask, as I told you a month ago, through the backs of people living in this country. And the previous law is exactly the example of the law you're responding to by taking your skin off your back. Then certain people who don't work and don't live like you and me, because they don't live on a regular salary from month to month, but they do one job that has a lot of suspense in it (see, and they find it interesting), trying to sell their art, because they have to live on it, earning bread. Someone makes a lot of money, because the gain of circumstances was like that, and someone didn't, given the circumstances, which perhaps neither of his art, the skills he owns or talents often depend on. Then that face category must be found under your stroke, and when someone starts to rebel – which here is called "expert public", and it is actually the cry of people who do not know how to make ends meet and how to do their work from the beginning to the end, and that they do not have only uncertainty, but that they should be given a dose of relative certainty in the business they are dealing with, because they are defined to do so – then you ignore them. Then what's going on here? It happens that with such behaviour not only do you show consistency in your work, not only do you show openness to the citizens of Serbia that you do not take care of priorities and important things in time, which may happen to someone, such exceptions are possible... I'm not saying a leak like this is impossible, it can happen to anyone, but you've got a lot of them, you've got them in the last ten months. You are told what you should do and how you should react, because of the political vanity you do not listen to these messages, and after a month you are passing a law similar to or the same content as the Democratic Party of Serbia has proposed, and a month before that you are criticising us to spread populistism. What does lateness mean? Remember only a tenth of the law, specifically the guarantee law for foreign currency savings deposits. That's what we talked about before New Year's Eve. The entire Ujdura was, to us, jumping out of all forces, with our weight why we propose such a thing, that later than the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the almost identical text of the law would come to the National Assembly and then act as if no one had ever mentioned such a thing before. It's just one example. When one of the MPs here, regardless of whether he's from the ruling coalition or from the opposition, and above all from the opposition, because we, by nature of things, spend most of our time on criticism and conversations with you, draw attention that something is not good, then you should listen to it in time. If you don't, you're making a double mistake. First you're wrong about a certain category of faces that are in question, so now you're correcting it, and you're making another mistake, which is only breaking your back, and as an opposition, I guess we should be looking forward to it. I'm not sure there's any joy in this place, but the thing is simple: this way you show other entities in the country that, whatever you bring from the regulations, if properly rebelled, can be changed. Yeah, this is supposed to be changed, we support this, it's no problem at all, but the next day you'll hear from someone calling for precedents in your behavior, your actions, who's going to look for what's not possible. Today, there have been words about it, by my predecessors, what will you do in case you have not a rebellion of some esnaf, but a political rebellion and an execution within your ranks of those with whom you have a ruling coalition, which support you in the National Assembly, such as the PUPS, when something that is political logic or political message about the height and way of harmonising pensions is finally coming up when it ceases to be possible in the field of political compromise between you. That's how you do it, that's how you do it from the beginning, from June last year to today. That's what we're telling you, that you don't have a concept, that you don't have a clear idea of a leader and you don't know what you're doing. Fortunately, sometimes you know what to do, as is the case with this bill today, but it's not the result of your thinking about the problem, so you put it out in the context of a comprehensive bill, at some first session of the law, so you can defend it. Because all that Mrs. Gorica Mojovic said, which I agree with, was supposed to be your motivation when we first had amendments and additions to this law on the agenda of the National Assembly, and this is a shame today.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-01-0.u21503	Mr. Markicevic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-01-0.u21504	Dear Mr Vice-President, Madam Minister, fellow Members of the People's Parliament, the respected citizens of Serbia who are watching this direct transmission, I would like to say on behalf of the New Serbia MPs -- we will support this law and it is clear to us that the amendments to this law are being made. Of course, artists, voyeurs, painters, and all people of creation need to be admitted to some cost, and that part should be included in their reliefs and tax exemptions. Why did I answer that, since this is an amendment and an addition to this article that shouldn't have been brought in? There are a lot of members in the budget that shouldn't have been brought. Many good proposals have been proposed by the opposition and the NS parliamentary group, so it either adopts itself, so it is realised after a year, or ignored. I answered because I was interested in Mrs Mojovic's discussion. Of course, to every man who is educated, it is clear that there are not those who write books and those who print books; they are not in the same position as the chefs who practice works of art and those who dig clay; they are not in the same position as the painters and those who make works of art and those workers in the chemical industry who make painting colors. But Mrs Mojovic forgot one thing: both those who print books, and those who make colors, and those who dig clay should live on something. Then a bitter feeling is created to change and supplement this law (which I say the MPs of the NS will support) quickly and urgently because the vampires, artists, painters are famous and respected people (and should be respected people), marketingly interesting. Then there's the impression it's because of it. Then where is the equality of citizens? Isn't that discrimination? Aren't the citizens who are being discriminated against by the 10% use of mobile phones today? Who's going to tell them about millions of people nobody knows? We MPs know them when we have to get back from this congregation and explain to them whether we could have fought more for them. Enough of that marketing. You knew that in February, we talked about many members of the law where people tax without knowing how to pay so far. You think that only marketing can rule, but there's someone worse who's a judge to all of us. So we go to Roland Garros, just marketing, and then all our tennis players drop out. God forbid the citizens of Serbia experience what you are doing with this budget. I'm taking the opportunity, Madam Minister, to ask you – well, are you as an expert... And you know how we talked on the eve of New Year, and alone, and double and triple, for the budget. New Serbia has shown you that it is more important to the budget and state than its political interest. I think she showed up and I think you might be able to testify about that. Wouldn't you feel safer if it was three billion euros... We've killed ourselves here, 65 dots, a $900,000 ratification, a month we've been talking about it. Wouldn't you feel safer if three billion euros came here for discussion, for ratification? Obviously, if you still had a majority, that would be voted. What are you afraid of? It will not be returned by Miskovic, the MP centre, or all those from Davos, around the president of the Democratic Party, who were on the Kopalnik in winter. That's what our children will return to, our grandkids. Then why don't they hear where the three billion euros are? Did you hear that the Prime Minister, whom I asked where our foreign exchange reserves are, how much they amount to, and under what conditions are they placed, answered that it was a state secret? Of course, he bit his tongue after I asked him which cabinet session made the decision that it was a state secret. I got an answer from the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Dacic. But we don't have an answer, except for what you say -- these three billion euros, an agreement with the IMF, will be used if necessary. Did that money ever come to our country? Why don't you come to the Assembly with that information, in front of the citizens, in front of the MPs, and stop the rumors that the tycoon lists are already being made that money, at 50, 100, 200, 300 million euros, because, for God's sake, thousands of workers are working with them. As if these workers had received because they loved them, not because they had their backs ripped and earned on them, otherwise they wouldn't have paid them so little wages, they would have paid pension insurance for thousands and thousands of workers. I'm sure you know and have a list of companies that don't pay contributions to those workers. So the question is, and now we're discussing, it's very important these changes and additions... If it was luck, it wouldn't have been in the budget like this. But it's important to the Democratic Party, it's all marketing, because people, artists, have justifiably rebelled, and they're famous faces in this country, who knows how many votes are behind them. Some of these athletes should not even ask – in which country do you pay taxes when you are such patriots? And I'm trembling on Sunday to have a heart attack because of whether someone is going to lose a match there, as well as millions of citizens. You won't, because you think this people are cattle, that they're cattle. That's how you Serbian citizens treat them. Why don't you tax those who have hundreds and billions of euros? Do it now, it's a good time, it's the beginning of June, you don't have to ski up and sledgehammer, here, in Zlatibor, make a rally and bring these people in. Do you see how this is handled in other countries? Not like you -- you only react when famous people, or famous citizens of this country, rebel. I repeat, that we are not accidentally honored that we are against this, we support amendments and additions to the law, and in the day of voting we will vote. When are you going to pass the law on transfer funds to the municipalities here? It is the ninth year that I am an MP and every year she comes to the Library Assembly where it is known, from Babusnica to Belgrade, as much as anyone from the budget will receive these transfer funds. We know that it will be reduced by 15 billion, and to whom and how, no. I asked a very unfortunate question here a few days ago, Madam Minister, no one has denied me or confirmed me, is it true that 6.5 billion are going to Vojvodina so that some parliamentary groups here would vote for ordinary laws, with municipalities with the majority Hungarian life. Is it true or isn't it? Is it true that the adoption of a law on the amounts of transfer funds, how many municipalities or cities will have, prevents Belgrade Mayor Gilas because it disagrees with 7.5 billion for Belgrade? Should we think in Serbia that Serbia and Cačak, and Kruševac, and Užice and Kosjeric, is that Serbia? Should we update the topic – Serbia is working and Belgrade is being built? How is it possible that such a standard is with Mr. Gilas here in downtown Belgrade, when no company works? You know how, Madam Minister, we who are from this part of Serbia travel through Topola, and as soon as we get out of Topola, that's where Belgrade begins. So, all the power plants, where large funds are charged, are run under Belgrade. If anyone had a problem with the people on the street, he'd put them away like this to bulldozers. Then why don't you move the Ministry of Economy to the town of Cachak, and we'll hire 500 people from Cacca? Believe me, we won't mind citizens from all over Serbia coming to complain. How's that in Europe? Where in Europe is the headquarters of the Ministry of Economy? He's not in Bonn, he's in Berlin, he's in Stuttgart. Why are all the ministries in Belgrade? Why is Belgrade the center of economic, political and any other power? Why am I asking this? Because what some MPs have said here is embarrassing – it is not the same when it comes to the one who publishes books and the one who writes books. Are we the dorks here? Are the citizens of Serbia a moron? That's clear to everyone. It's not clear to you that the one who prints books for that printing machine needs to live on something. So I've asked a lot of difficult questions, and in the days for questions, Tuesdays and Thursdays, what we have the right to do – no one has honored me to answer. It's possible that you think we're a small group of MPs. Believe me, millions of citizens would like to have such a chance and privilege as I do, to be MPs and to ask here. What are we gonna do with them? What about the cost of sick children, pensioners? What about the TV subscription and the simultaneous cable payment? It's nowhere in the world. Is it true that nearly 88,000 pensioners in Serbia receive less than 11,000? Do you know what their monthly costs are for using cable networks and a public service subscription? One pension, Madam Minister, is given annually. Why do I mention pensions to you personally? Because you fought and you had a clear attitude in increasing and regulating pensions. Why did you give up afterwards? Why did you agree to be ordered by the political chiefs? As far as I know, you were some name in the economy before this. Is it more important to you to function or to those citizens who have nothing to live on? To whoever has a pension of ten thousand, we're going to raise 900 dinars, and to whoever has 80,000, we're going to add an entire pension. Is that justice? Is that European Serbia? Why doesn't this noise rise by hundreds and hundreds of thousands of people who can't buy drugs? You have them in front of the government every day, and so do we in the Assembly. They can't feed the kids. How are they going to pay an increased tax on property and on all living things? How they're going to pay people who don't have a job, and they have a 150-square-square-square house, and it still happened to them in the second zone, and God forbid in the first zone in downtown Belgrade. They've lost their jobs and they're 60 years old, they don't need anyone. How are they going to pay that tax? Is that what you're interested in? How do you fill the budgets of municipalities and cities? Or you find cities of interest only politically, those who are on television but Europe, they are the first in Europe; and at the cashier's checkout, Madam Minister, some cities cannot pay public lighting. They're the best cities on TV, because they're part of your ruling coalition, or people in those cities. Is that justice? When are we gonna talk about this? I could talk until morning, not out of my head, not out of my mind, just because the people meet me on the street and asks, like all of you from the ruling coalition. The same thing you know better than I said here. I've experienced it myself, dear gentlemen and ladies from the ruling coalition. It is my sin to vote for many laws, and above all for the Law on Privatisation, where people are crippled and poor, hundreds of thousands of people. I ask them to forgive me. You make better laws and rebel against your bosses and ministers, lest you repent as I now repent and as my soul hurts. I trusted some people, I trusted DOS, that they were doing it for the best, to help the people. They robbed Serbia, and now our children and our grandchildren are going to work with them for 20. Twenty people own Serbia, twenty. These are your gentlemen from the Kopalniks; all of them ten million euros each, there are two billion euros. We don't need an IMF. Two and a half billion Lukas of Belgrade, MPC; are those figures to you as economists interesting, ma'am? Why do you interrupt the show all of a sudden? Not even that TV, so brave, can't; it's breaking up all of a sudden. Do we believe that money spins where the burgion won't? I warn you – believe me, I come from the province, you live in the clouds in Belgrade, you don't know how the people live – there is a social explosion. I don't want any country, so of course I don't want yours. Be wise, gentlemen, and look how this people live. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-01-0.u21505	Thank you. I ask all MPs to concentrate on the agenda, and the word is Mrs Mojovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-01-0.u21506	Thank you. I really have to respond to Mr Markicevic's discussion, simply because I would not want it to be remembered what he said, to say, as some sort of planting, whether because of the lack of understanding of what I wanted to say or the trendy interpretation. My comparison of different types of occupations was merely an illustration of the Minister's thesis that her intention and intention of the Ministry of Finance was to equate the tax burden on labour contracts and copyright contracts. So, both those who work under the contract of work and those who are constantly employed or those who work in copyright, there is absolutely no difference for me when it comes to willingness, ability, work, effort and, of course, compensation for it. Therefore, it was not at all a discrimination of one type of work compared to another, but a distinction of one type of fee compared to another. To be fair, I've been the director of a cultural institution myself for a while, you know, when your installation breaks down, your heating, the master comes in, you pay for it by the deed contract; you have to pay for it, otherwise it won't fix that malfunction. But a musician who holds a concert, or a painter who has an exhibition, is waiting for a fee until he gets it, if he gets it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-01-0.u21507	Thank you. The word has been given by the People's MP, Mr. Zoran Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-01-0.u21508	The Honorable Minister, the Honorable Presidency, we are almost at regular intervals of about a month, discussing important laws concerning the economy and the economy, and, as a rule, we are telling you that you will come back to us. I know you're not comfortable with it at all, even though you're laughing now. What we told you when we adopted the budget and when this assembly adopted budget rebalancing and accompanying laws is in fact a confirmation that we have told you the right things and confirmation of what we have been saying since October, which is that you are the Minister of Finance in the Government who has no economic policy, or has no adequate strategy to get out of the crisis. This is also evidenced by the draft budget, which was based in December on economic growth of 3%. That's when we told you it was unrealistic. It is also a proposal for budget rebalance, based on the decline of the social product of 2%. I think it's already clear that this fall will be far greater. So here you are in September here. I, when adopting the first rebalancing, expressed hope that your professional knowledge and your professional honor will not allow you to come in September and tell us again about the need to bring our economy into line, our economic movements with European standards, and that you claim that this state administration has the best possible solutions and that we are the leader in reforms and in times of economic and economic crisis. We are probably leaders in both economic and economic reforms when Minister Dinkic says so, or when Minister Djelic says so, but speaking to citizens and people of the economic profession, I came to a simple conclusion, which is that only a few other journalists believe Minister Djelic and Minister Dinkic, and this ends this whole story. People believe you, and we know that you here must... Or I believe you, I know you have to defend the government policy here and probably disagree with a lot of suggestions here. Because, how can you come out two months ago with the law amending the Law on Income Tax, and now, with the new amendment of this law, you're saying, here, I'm going to read this argument, the reason for the adoption of the law on income tax on citizens by emergency procedure – if this change is not done, it would have adverse consequences, because there would be problems in the functioning of the fiscal system in the part of taxing the income of natural persons achieved on the basis of income from copyright and copyright rights, etc. Is it possible that two months ago you claimed this was a good solution, and now, two months later, you're saying it's not a good solution? It's not a good solution, either. This is, of course, much better, but the point is in the following thing – when you hit the cultural public, or artists, painters, apprentices, actors, writers, and when that public raised its voice, you had to step down and, of course, here is the result of a new amendment to the Law on Income Tax. It's proof that you're a weak government. You're a weak government because you don't have an economic policy strategy in times of economic crisis that is obvious. You're having trouble filling your budget. You're trying in every way to raise funds, and you wrote it to us in these original changes, that, above all, the purpose and reason for the adoption of laws and greater taxation of artists to achieve a greater flow of funds into the budget. When they raised their voice, and that's one very delicate thing, to say, the electoral body, you decided that it was more cellular for you to get it back to the way it was. That's what you almost did. What does that mean? This means that you will give in under the pressure of anyone who raises a voice in this country and who puts pressure on you, says to your face that you do not lead a clear policy and decide that he does not want to allow the burden of the economic crisis to be broken over his back. That's probably what we're up to. Another proof that you don't have a clear strategy: here, today is June 1st, and we still don't know how to deploy transfer funds to local self-government. For five months, these funds are allocated under the old law. For example, Šapcu owned 504,000 transfer funds under the old law. These are monthly transfers amounting to 43,000,000 per month and have been regularly paid into the Sabac municipality's budget so far. But in these five months, about 400,000 were paid, or about 215,000 thousand. When you cut the funds from five hundred to three hundred, I guess in that range and it's moving, the rest of the hundred and some million, when it's divided into these remaining seven months, it's going to be 13,000,000. Look, these are not small reductions and these are not reductions of 30% to 40%, but precisely because of the delay, because of your internal political inability to agree on how and on the basis of which criteria to distribute transfer funds... Because there is obviously the blackmail of certain powerful mayors, certain strong political currents that do not allow you to share those transfer funds by clear criteria. You'll find yourself in a situation where many municipalities and cities, simply put, are going to be sick financially. Sabac may also survive the monthly loss of 30,000,000 dinars, but there are municipalities that account for up to 50% of the budget. If they remain suspended in the distribution of transfer funds, it will mean that many municipalities will not have the means to settle the regimeal costs they have towards schools, cultural institutions, and many municipalities will also have problems with paying their own income, so they will come to you before the government, and they will tell you – that is not the case. So do we have to change the whole package in two months, and then give some more transfer funds to those you thought you'd give less? That's where you'll, I'll sign, show your inconsistency. We've been witnessing that he's been talking to Mayor Gilas for two months. What I want to finish with when it comes to this law... At least here you're in law form, it was public, it was transparent, but what did you do with the pensioners of farmers? I'm asking you for a concrete answer, to see if you have that data, to see what resources are being made in February, when a Regulation on conditions and how to use regression funds for wartime and vegetable production in 2009, famous 12,000 dinars per hectare. Article 4 makes it clear that agricultural pensioners who have been registered also have the right to these 12,000 per hectare. On the basis of the May 15th Regulation, 15 days ago, that right was abolished by agricultural pensioners. That's what other evidence is that you're running ad hoc politics. That's true. I'm curious as to what means this is. We have over 200,000 agricultural pensioners. If you are now going to pay someone instead of 12,000 dinars 3,600 per hectare, because it says here that agricultural pensioners who have registered holdings will pay 30% of the 12,000 dinars, then I want to hear it right away, which number of pensioners are concerned, which money is it. If you do not have that information, then it is evidence of how much you care about very vulnerable social groups, such as agricultural pensioners, because it is difficult to call a pension of 8,635 a pension that meets the basic criteria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-01-0.u21509	Thank you. The word is from Ambassador Milos Radulovic. The remaining time for the DSS Group is five and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-01-0.u21510	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is precisely this law on amendments and additions to the Law on Income Tax that the Government essentially works under pressure. So there's been a change in certain rates just under the pressure of the profession. The Democratic Party of Serbia has made a proposal for a deposit insurance law in due time. However, the government had no ear for the law at the time, condemned it and said it was more or less defetism and panic, which we are spreading among Serbian citizens, so that, under pressure from withdrawing foreign funds from banks, the government would introduce the emergency procedure in the deposit insurance law procedure. And, to amortise the whole story, our proposal, which was 20,000 euros once, you increased to 50,000. The Democratic Party of Serbia and MPs of the Democratic Party of Serbia have tried, in the interest of citizens, to make proposals and point out what is a burning problem for all citizens of Serbia. Our wish wasn't to spread populism. We have pointed out the unrealistic estimates of budget planning, that the unrealistic estimates of GDP growth, we have pointed to large internal liquidity, large external debt, to increase the number of unemployed. The government has done nothing, because the government is incompetent, because the government does not have adequate answers to certain measures. Do you know what the reason is? The government is working on the orders of a man, the president of the state of Boris Tadic, who is also president of the Democratic Party. The fact is that the government was composed of import lobbys and ambassadors from individual countries. The best example and confirmation of this is that the Government adopted, and the majority of the assembly, unilateral application of the SAA, or the Transition Trade Agreement, which is directly in the interest of the import lobby, because it allows them to import goods from abroad under easier circumstances, goods of broad consumption, and thus choke our domestic producers. The fact that we've confirmed our findings and this story we've repeated many times is dinner with the president of the state during US Vice President Biden's visit. Only if the guests who were at dinner are seen to be the people who pressured certain political parties to form this government. The government is not drawn up in the interests of citizens, but in the interest of certain stakeholders, because the political parties came out with different programmes and on territorial integrity and on the issue of seeing Serbia's economic and social policies. As much as you are unable to assess the effects of the crisis, you are constantly talking about this crisis with us as a result of the global economic crisis. That's not true. The global crisis has an impact, but the bigger problem has been the internal economic crisis due to the inability of the ruling majority and this government to solve problems. Finally, only one confirmation: the first arrangement with the International Monetary Fund was entered by 420,000,000 and you said it was enough, and then you increased to two billion euros, because the estimate was so much to defend the course, that you eventually concluded the arrangement to three billion euros, not consulting the majority of the assembly, but meeting somewhere and post-festum made a decision at the cabinet's session. The result is a major outflow of foreign reserves. We asked the governor of the Jelasic National Bank on the Finance Committee – who bought the foreign exchanges, who bought 2,400,000 euros? We didn't get an answer. The citizens certainly didn't buy it, because the citizens didn't have the money. They've redeemed just the ones who put this government together. Everything you do, you do in their interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-01-0.u21511	The word is Mrs Dimitrijevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-01-0.u21512	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People’s Parliament, here is a bill that explains: “In relation to the income tax, citizens do not have binding European Union regulations that require harmonisation. “ Most of them, not to say almost all the draft laws adopted by this authority had an explanation – the law needs to be passed in order to bring domestic legislation into line with EU legislation. As a reason for the adoption of the law under emergency procedure, it is written that the adoption of the law would have adverse consequences because there would be problems in the functioning of the fiscal system. I remind you that the changes were made only a month ago, and now these changes are changing again, but they are not returning to the previous situation, but taxes are slightly higher than the original ones, and they are higher contributions. In order to be urgent, the law is scheduled to enter into force the next day since the day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". I will now return to the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Income Tax in April. It was adopted together with the budget rebalance, and then the government's intention was to ensure an increase in the revenue side of the budget because it has major problems. In fact, budget revenues in the first four months of this year are lower by 18 billion dinars compared to last year – 197.5 to 215.5 billion. In many ways, income increases were attempted. The government expressed expectations that the first results of the measures it took could be expected by August: freezing salaries in the state administration and pensions, reducing money transfers to local self-government, as well as increasing excise duties on gasoline and mobile phone talks. However, it is certain that this will not be enough, because the reduction of public consumption is just a story of emptyness. The argument is the continuous establishment of new agencies and other bodies, instead of the work that needs to be done in the ministry sector. We are all here to witness that at each newly held session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, some law is being adopted that provides for the establishment of new organs. It's mostly agencies lately. In the previous session, the adoption of the Chemical Law proposal also provides for the establishment of a Chemical Agency. It's a new state body, parallel to the Ministry of Environment and Spatial Planning. Let me remind you that there is already a Environmental Protection Agency. Also, at the previous session, the adoption of the Foreign Trade Act was introduced into the legal framework of the Foreign Investment and Export Promotion Agency. It's one of about 105 existing agencies. She's been there for a while, and now she's got her alleged legitimacy. Another organ has been created in parallel with the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development. In the past, the Sixth regular session of the National Assembly on the agenda was a proposal for a traffic safety law on the roads. The adoption of this law begins with another agency – Transport Safety Agency. She's a parallel to the Home Office. For starters, 40 new workers are scheduled to be employed there. The adoption of the Bill on Official Statistics establishes a Statistics Council, which will number the new 17 members who will be burdened by the budget, i.e. Serbia's taxpayers. Another proposal was on the agenda, the draft law amending and supplementing the Foreign Affairs Act. Its adoption, however, does not provide for the establishment of an agency, but we have the precedent we rarely meet – the foreign minister gives himself the right to receive up to 5% of the total number of employees in diplomatic and consular representations without conducting an internal and public competition. Here we have new jobs instead of reducing the number of employees. The adoption of a set of agricultural laws also envisioned the establishment of new bodies. In this case, it's a directorate. Instead of reducing public spending, this represents a direct increase. It is therefore clear that the measures taken by the government will not yield the expected results. Aware of these facts, the government also envisaged additional measures in a memorandum with the IMF – an increase in value added tax, a reduction in nominal earnings and an extension of the freezing of pensions in 2010. As for the increase in the value added tax rate, if this were to happen at the same time, there would be a reduction in demand and an increase in inflation. Given that the Minister of Economy and Regional Development said an increase in VAT will not occur because economic activity will start to recover and that this will increase tax revenues when the crisis in Serbia is already going through, it may signal to Serbian citizens that there will be an increase in VAT rates, as everything happens contrary to what Mladjan Dinkic says. An increase in the value added tax rate in the current conditions, when there is no comment on the passing of the economic crisis (if we look into the truth, then so), would mean a blow to the Serbian economy, especially small businesses. The government also plans better tax control and plans to set up a group in June, which will monitor VAT collection and analyse problems. In tax control, there is one big problem, which is the long-standing illness of our society - corruption. It is known that Serbia is a state with a high degree of corruption and that it is almost at the bottom of the list at the rate of corruption perception. In particular, this area where it can be cut off by much of the state represents a suitable soil for corruption. Just because of the lack of control in the recent past, there have been many cases of tax evasion. Thus, at the expense of the state, individuals, minors overnight, became rich, for instead of in the state register, they ended up in straws and in the accounts of those individuals, with the help of those whose job was to prevent it. I will now read the data on the fact that tax evasion in 2008 was more than 263,000,000 euros. These are data from the Tax Administration of the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Serbia. According to the institution's director, the taxpayers in Serbia did not account for and pay 22.4 billion dinars in the first 11 months of 2008, which is approximately 263.5m euros after that course. The Director stated that 10,103 traffic recording controls were carried out through the fiscal register and that 3,372 temporary measures were imposed against the exercise of activity. He said that 1,650 criminal charges were filed in Serbia's competent public prosecutors for 2,269 crimes, with the total amount of tax evaded only on behalf of these crimes being 13.16 billion dinars. The tax police have identified three basic models of avoidance of value added tax, which are: non-reporting of facts which are relevant for the determination of VAT obligations, giving false data of importance for the calculation and presentation and payment of taxes and unfounded presentation of VAT refund amounts. The key role in tax non-payments is "the company's fantasy", whose role is to make up and issue false invoices with value added tax, although the goods are not sold. A total of 285 criminal charges were filed against 405 responsible persons in those companies. We have data from the 2008 tax inspectors, which says Serbia's budget in the last five years has been damaged by 50.8 billion dinars. The chief inspector said that in 2008 the number of VAT evasion and income tax increases, while the decline in excise goods is recorded. The main reason for the decline in evasion is the change in legal solutions, primarily in the case of the tax release of petroleum products, which in many cases have been shown by false documentation as a re-promatter for chemical production and sold as diesel or gasoline. Noting that the most visible trend in growth in value added tax evasion is the chief inspector argues that this is the most dangerous and complex form of tax theft. Tax evasion, according to him, is often not a successful business, nor are they particularly educated, and speculation usually occurs in trade and in part in the production of alcoholic beverages. As for 2009, in just four months, Belgrade's entrepreneurs have hidden a tax of 806.000,000 dinars. In the Tax Administration, they say that if such a trend continues, a double number of hidden money can be expected by the end of the year compared to last year's entire capital secretion, which was 2.5 billion dinars. This is just part of what the taxpayers discovered. The amount of undeclared tax is certainly higher. By the end of April, 95 criminal charges were filed against the owner and director of the city's private companies, but also state officials, while the number 150 for all Serbia. That's what the IRS says. There are most problems in the area of trade and services, followed by the construction and real estate sectors. A huge part of what does not apply is income tax, and about 7,500 citizens have tried to hide their incomes to avoid paying this tax. These are the most common members of the boards of directors, directors of private firms, or they are about the money obtained from part-time work. It's a few billion dinars at the country level. Talks have already been announced for August this year by the government and the National Bank of Serbia's representatives with the IMF mission, which will then come under control and discuss an increase in value added tax and wage cuts. As for the profit reduction, again, this measure will hit the lowest earners, which are already frozen. Instead of bringing in profits from the directors of certain public enterprises and agencies, profits from which employees already cannot put an end to the end will be reduced. I would like to remind you that the Serbian Radical Party's insistence has been made that the director of the public enterprise Airport had monthly incomes of nearly 23,000 euros, along with bonuses. The salaries of directors in state agencies published on the official website ranged from 355,000 to some 97,000, and they also had bonuses. After carrying out this data by the SRS and demanding that wages be made public and in order to mitigate the negative effects of the economic crisis, the government adopted a Law on temporary wage cuts, i.e. earnings, net remuneration and other revenues in the state administration and the public sector. However, Article 7 provides that allowances may be paid to employers for the results of the work achieved. This should have been left out of the law, because the burden of the economic crisis should also be borne by tenants who have far higher incomes than employees. In local self-government units, this relationship is 1:3, and in some cases more. Also, this law regulates fees for members and presidents and vice-presidents of boards of directors and supervisory boards. I will not repeat now how much amounts there were, what fees were on the boards of directors and supervisors, just to remind me that Serbian Radical Party MPs talked a lot about it because it was abnormal fees. The austerity measures announced by the government, the freezing of pensions and in 2010 at the end of 2008, for the vast majority of pensioners would be a ruthless blow. A small number of about 1,600,000 pensioners receive pensions of up to 90,000 dinars. They will not be affected by this measure. However, I am now talking about some 700,000 pensioners who receive pensions on average up to 13,000 dinars per month. In particular, agricultural pensioners are in a bad position. In many families, pensions are the only source of income. Pensioners are in a situation where they have to pay all their pensions for their house expenses, electricity, water, phone, and, besides, they have to train their grandchildren, because parents can't get a job. What's left for the pensioners? It's a population that, unfortunately, is accompanied by major health problems and a good part of the pension goes to buy drugs. Just to remind ourselves of what this government has promised the pensioners -- that in addition to one increase of 10% in 2008 there will be harmonisations in 2009, on two occasions, so from 1 January 2010, the pension in Serbia will be at 70% of the average earnings. I sincerely hope that representatives of pensioners, but also representatives of other political parties, will not allow this authority, as well as most citizens of Serbia, to be deceived and retired, who have been in a poor social and material situation for years. The social group, which will undoubtedly affect the negative effects of the economic crisis most, is unemployed and those who remain jobless. According to data from the National Employment Service's monthly statistical bulletin, in April 2009, the number of unemployed in Serbia was 762,674 and was 4.287 higher than the number of unemployed in March this year and 45,265 higher than the number of unemployed at the end of October last year. Belgrade has a second month of consecutive increases in the number of unemployed above 1,000 people. In April, the biggest growth in unemployment was Vojvodina, after Novi Sad's deduction, and Belgrade, compared to March this year. When the number of unemployed is compared to the number of employees in September last year, the total increase in the number of unemployed is 2.3% of the number of employees in Serbia. In doing so, the largest relative growth was achieved in central Serbia, without Belgrade, and Vojvodina, without Novi Sad, while Novi Sad and Belgrade had a modest growth in unemployment. Area unemployment data, ranked relatively by the growth of the number of unemployed compared to the number of employees, show huge differences in relative unemployment growth – from 9% of the number of employees in the Jablanic district to 0.3% in Belgrade. At the top of the list of growth in relative unemployment are municipalities of southern and eastern Serbia. Viewed by municipalities, not counting Belgrade and Novi Sad, the largest increase in unemployment, the number of unemployed since October last year has been Leskovac. In 24 municipalities, the number of unemployed was reduced compared to October last year by 3,669 people. When these municipalities shut down, over the past six months, the number of unemployed has increased by 48,000. What has affected the economic crisis for years back in this state is certainly the process of unfair privatisation, not to use... (President: Please, Mrs Dimitrijevic, speak in relation to Article 103 of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Income Tax. Thank you. Mr. Chairman, I'm talking about all those measures that the government is taking. I have the right to say all this because all this has to do with the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Income Tax. Due to the reduction in budget revenues, a rebalancing was made already in April, and the practice is that the rebalancing, if already necessary, works before the end of the year. Serbia is in charge of three billion euros to fill the gap on the revenue side of the budget. The rebalancing has just ended, stories of a new rebalancing are on the move, probably in August, when the revision of the measures so far and the review of the real situation is expected. Government announces that unless the measures applied give the expected results, the IMF will request a higher budget deficit from the agreed 3% of the gross social product, at 4% of GDP. An excuse for such a request has been found in the forecast that only three European countries, Finland, Cyprus and Luxembourg, will succeed in meeting the requirement that the budget deficit will not exceed 3% of GDP due to the economic crisis. In 2009, most European countries are expected to cross the 3% threshold; thus France could end up with a deficit of 5.6% of GDP, Spain with 6%, Romania 5%, Greece with 4%. If representatives of the International Monetary Fund approve the Serbian government's intentions, a problem will arise to cover a deficit that would be above 1.5 billion euros. That would condition a new borrowing. The open question remains how the IMF will get the borrowed money back. Experts warned that the IMF could approve a deficit of as much as 5% of GDP in August, so that economic instability would not further deepen political instability. But that would only create new problems in our economy. The current deficits have been financed from credits from international institutions, but also from good works and privatisation revenues. The finance minister announced a major tax reform that the Ministry plans to implement by the end of this and the initial year and that the first order of the Law on Income Tax and the Tax on Profit, that the basic idea of making complicated laws as simple as possible, that tax rates remain competitive and that there will be only two. However, the finance minister's opinion is that the current tax rates in Serbia are among the lowest in Europe. The question is, can we maybe expect more tax rates? Let's just go back a little bit. Under a comprehensive fiscal reform in 2001, the Law on Income Tax was adopted. The law established a cedural PDG system in Serbia and prescribed a nominal tax rate of 20% on practically all categories of citizens' income, except for earnings. Due to a significant burden on social contributions, employee earnings are then subject to a lower tax rate of 14%. Although the introduction of a single nominal tax rate of 20% at first sight may look like the implementation of horizontal justice, the problem is the fact that for different categories of income, different rates of non-taxable normised costs have been prescribed by law. The important feature of progressive global systems is the legal definition of the non-taxable treatment of the costs incurred in obtaining income. Different rates of normised non-taxable costs result in significant differences in effective tax rates. An effective tax rate is important to taxpayers because this rate, not nominal, determines what amount of tax they will have to pay. However, there are much more frequently in the media nominal than effective tax rates, as public expansion is difficult to expect a significant degree of guidance in the details of current tax laws. This is particularly true for foreign investors, who are unable to get a detailed understanding of the details of each of the countries in which they invest. A simple, transparent system, with a low tax rate, would be in a better position to attract foreign investors' attention. The PDG law establishes a cedural system, but it also contains global elements, in terms of annual income tax. In fact, citizens with high annual incomes, close to 1% of taxpayers, are obliged to submit a tax application and pay an additional 10% annual tax on the total amount of net income above the non-taxable price at the end of the year. Given that the annual tax represents an additional tax on the other taxes citizens pay during the year, its introduction has allowed a certain degree of vertical justice without violating the simplicity of Serbia's cedural system. Over the years, nominal effective tax rates of individual categories of income are aligned with other tax laws and economic opportunities. The most significant change is the tax reduction of the profit rate from 14% to 12%. Economic opportunities have conditioned the world's trend of a simpler PDG system to create a more competitive tax environment and stimulate economic growth. The introduction of a 10% single low tax rate would make the Serbian tax system competitive compared to the environment. It is also good to look back at some examples from world practice. The largest number of Western countries has been identified as implementing systems that are essentially global, but the cedural elements include to facilitate the implementation of the tax system and achieve individual economic objectives. Most of the old EU members are awarded relatively complex global systems, with progressive tax rates and social tax programmes highlighted. It is characteristic that these old EU members have introduced more cedural elements and non-taxable censorships into their PDG systems to reduce the cost of the administration of taxpayers. In most of these countries, taxpayers who make only income from regular employment and minor revenues from other sources are not obliged to submit annual tax returns. This is the case in countries like Great Britain, Germany and Hungary. On the other hand, new EU members mostly have simpler systems, with less progressive tax rates. The minister has a difficult task in connection with the announced reforms. On the one hand, there is the government with its interests, a multitude of wrong moves regarding measures to mitigate the effects of the global economic crisis, on the other hand, are citizens of Serbia. It is not disputed that obligations to the state in the form of taxes must be settled. At this difficult time, a socially responsible government would have to take care of the interests of citizens and that the burden of the crisis is on everything, not that the whole burden must be borne by the poorest and the honest ones. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-01-0.u21513	Thank you. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, I ask before concluding a principled search whether anyone who has not applied his right to Article 93 wants the word. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) I am concluding the principle of shock. Before I conclude this session, I give my word to Mrs Dragutinović Diana, the finance minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-01-0.u21514	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, I must admit that this atmosphere in parliament reminds me of the movie "Strengthening the Stars", only the situation is slightly reversed – there were not those who wanted to respond in that film, and it seems to me today, especially looking at the right side, that there are no those who want to hear the answer, or there were more who asked questions, and much less those who want to wait for answers. I'll try to look back at everything I think is important and can contribute to this debate. First of all, answers or polemics with Ambassador Obradovic. So it's not true we don't have a vision. So the Bill of Law, i.e. the first version of the Law on Income Tax, was drawn up and it is really ready for public debate. What's a vision when it comes to this law? All citizens' incomes from their own work should be subject to a comparable tax burden. Also, there's no need for a large number of tax rates. It's not true that there are only two tax rates, 12 and 20%. In the current system of cedular taxation, there is a width of tax rates: a tax rate of 10%, a tax rate of 12%, a tax rate of 14%, a tax rate of 20%, with different normised costs that give different effective rates, plus an annual income tax of 10 and 15%. What would that mean in that new law? Only two feet, 10% and 20%; the element of proportionality is introduced. That's one thing. The second thing, the Ministry of Finance initiates a proposal in other ministries, primarily the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Labour and Social Protection, to change the current unfair calculation of social contributions for unemployed "authors", so to speak, or the fees that pay higher rates of contributions to health insurance. So, the new bill made by the Ministry of Finance is ready for a public debate and it is not true that, even when it comes to this law and also the Tax on Profits, the Government has no vision. As for the effects of freezing earnings, Mr. Obradovic waved a newsletter issued by the Ministry of Finance. Of course you can't see that data in the newsletter, because it's still not seen in the data; the freezing of Mayan earnings will only be seen in June's data. As regards the guarantees discussed today, which the state approves of business banks to refinance commitments to the Public Enterprise Roads, that is, part of the arrangement with the IMF. So the state has to restore its remaining obligations. Another very important thing about the arrangement with the IMF is that there is no accumulation, or accumulation of new delays. Thus, the state must, or public enterprise, carry out its obligations on time. Again, Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic and something about her discussion – so I think the arguments are exactly what you say they are not. I don't think we're, unfortunately, the smartest, that we're not leaders and that we can only be followers. There is a definition of the public sector; this is said to be the general state. There are general international standards of what a state is. According to that definition, the general government simply does not include the National Bank of Serbia, or the National Bank of Serbia, does not include a central bank. So the central bank is not part of the general state. In that sense, the credit we took from the IMF is not part of the public debt, but that doesn't mean it's not part of the external debt. So he's not seen in public debt statistics, he's not part of the public debt, but he is part of the total debt, as is the total debt of the private sector. The following situation is also possible: there are such programmes that the IMF through the National Bank of Serbia approves a loan to the state to finance the deficits. In that case, such credit would be part of the public debt and in that case the Assembly should ratify the debt. What the National Assembly decides on is public debt. So anything that can directly or potentially affect public consumption. So this arrangement with the International Monetary Fund is really just support for foreign reserves, has nothing to do with public spending, and therefore, regardless of its size, which is three billion euros, it should not be subject to ratification of this parliament, and that small loan from the World Bank of 50 million dollars needs. Also, the private sector is in debt with international financial institutions and is also getting quite large loans from the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, at the International Investment Bank, and it is also not subject to ratification of this parliament. I understand the presentation of MP Aligrudić that the future is certain of everything except the government. I really hope he doesn't mean it. Unfortunately, economic policy is under conditions of uncertainty and it has absolutely nothing to do with the crisis. Otherwise, the future is uncertain and short, especially in the long run, and the crisis only increases uncertainty. When we talk about uncertainty, there are two kinds of uncertainty. I like to say that there are known unknowns and unknowns. The role of the creator of economic policy is to minimise uncertainty and it can minimize only known unknowns, unknowns cannot be affected. Unlike natural sciences, in economic life it's as if you're constantly chasing a moving target. So if you do something as a creator of economic policy, you have to wait for whether it gives any effect, and then you have the right to give up if it brings the opposite effects of expectations, you have the right to increase the dose or reduce it. It's simple, there's no recipe, and whoever says that is wrong. Ambassador Markicevic, a similar discussion as Mrs. Jorvanka Tabakovic, and again the same answer: so the money of the International Monetary Fund, three billion, is significant, is not a public debt, these are the money that should be served over a period of two years. An 800,000 euros has been withdrawn so far. I remind you that this is not the first arrangement with the IMF that we had, that the first stand-by was already in early 2001, and then we made the second extended so-called. an arrangement that lasted more than three years. Many of you were then representatives of the People's Will, MPs, and I didn't hear they asked for ratification. All our commitments to the IMF have been made, all loans have been recovered. This is new, and that's how it's gonna be with him. How do you fill the city and municipality budgets? I have to say, just like the Republic's budget, and that's weak. When I say weak, it's because economy doesn't grow. In a growing economy, you have the right to be, as I say, not so thrifty. The crisis is a chance to repair public finances. It is not easy to be thrifty when there is, it is much easier to be thrifty when it is gone and I really expect it from Parliament, to make our actions adapt to what we have. Ambassador Zoran Nikolic said we do not have a strategy to get out of the crisis. I think this is also a mistake; what is a strategy to get out of the crisis? We didn't challenge her with our behavior and we won't get out of her until she's out of the world. We can only ease the crisis, and as far as we can, it depends on the strength of our economy. So we have limitations, they're resources. Some countries, the truth is, they can do much more, but regardless, the claim that we don't have a strategy, and if some countries had just not been founded, because if they did, they would already have come out of that crisis. One more word. Rebalance never essentially works at the end of the year. It can only be done by chance, rebalancing is usually done in the first half of the year. So much, if I left anything out, I apologize.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-01-0.u21515	Thank you. The word is Mrs. Lydia Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-01-0.u21516	I don't want to end today's discussion with a misunderstanding. I told you that you announced two tax rates, not that there are now two tax rates.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-01-0.u21517	Thank you. The word is Mr Miroslav Markicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-01-0.u21518	Dear Vice President, Madam Minister, from what you have told us here I can do a few things, free will, forgive me, to conclude - that you are not in agreement with the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr Dinkic. You're talking about relieving the crisis, and he's telling us that we're out of the crisis. That's one. Two, you haven't told us what's in the law on the transfer funds of the municipalities. In earlier years, we were getting a fat book, and then MPs had to lobby and vote, because they had to go back to their municipalities, explain to the people why they voted for the law. Thirdly, to make a little joke, if by the names of some films, as you always tell us at the end of the discussion, do you know what remains of what you conclude? To remember the movie, I think you watched it, our generation watched that movie, "When I'm dead and white." Fourthly, we from Cačka offer you – come to Cachak, move your ministry, of course, we will hire Cachans, no one will bother you, it's clean air, good cake, chačak, so you'll think a little better, and you won't suffer even the pressure of party bosses.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-01-0.u21519	Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-01-0.u21520	I'll try to be very brief. Mrs. Diana, you can't explain everything by methodology. Who will repay the IMF loan and whose income will be paid the interest that exists on that loan, or because of whose actions, with the consequences of whose economic policy, come into the situation to keep foreign reserves? Let me just say that methodology doesn't justify everything. If private debt is through border loans, cross-border credits, the concern of privates that the state does not guarantee, why did the state have to form a Vienna deal and ask for the refinancing and disposal of these loans? The people who work in companies that used private loans are the ones who pay taxes to this country and that causal and consequential relationship is our life. It can't be a methodology to defend non-interest when commitments come in, and laying the right to an independent decision of the state when it's due on behalf of the citizens, because neither does the National Bank, on the contrary, generates expenditure, and these interest will also go in the pocket of each of us, and you individually.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-01-0.u21521	Only two more notices, since we have concluded the debate, are that the Day for Answering Parliamentary Questions is scheduled for tomorrow, starting at 12.00 hours, as you have already been informed, and that there is the possibility that tomorrow, after this day of answer, we will continue the debate on the amendments, which you will be timely in detail.
