ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-15-0.u33763	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my question is addressed to the competent state institutions, primarily the Ministry of Health, and it is related to the current epidemiological situation in Serbia. As a state, we have concluded a contract for the purchase and purchase of three million doses of vaccines against the new H1 N1 virus. Article 2 of the Treaty provides that a certain dynamic exists in the distribution of these quantities. The dynamics meant that 500,000 doses of vaccine would be delivered to Serbia by 7 December. At the moment, today is December 15th, Serbia has 280 thousand vaccines. Workgroup members warn that 640,000 doses of vaccine are required for priority groups. I question the competent state institutions – whether the contract is respected in the purchase and purchase of vaccines. If it is not respected, and under Article 2 of the Treaty, we see that it is not respected, who is responsible and what will be taken by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, since there were no 500,000 vaccines in Serbia on December 7th? Will that contract be broken? Will vaccines be delivered afterwards? What's going on in that field? Perhaps the answer to that question was given a long time ago, already somewhere in July 2009, when we were on the verge of an epidemic. That answer was given to me by the current health minister, Mr. Tomica Milosavljevic. In 24.7.2009, he said this - we are in a conversation with all producers, and with one of them we have a preliminary agreement, that when the production of the vaccine is proven to be correct, reliable and clinically tested, we would then buy as a country for the first priority group of millions and a half of people, as provided for by the analyses, three million doses. That was said July 24th. Before the tender, there was an agreement and I ask for an answer to that question – with which vaccine producers was the agreement reached? I ask that I be delivered with a contract on the purchase of vaccines, wouldn't we completely resolve this situation and answer the question – why is there not enough vaccines in Serbia at this time that are foreseen by the contract that the Serbian state concluded with Novartis, or Yugoslavia?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-15-0.u33764	The word is made by the MP Miroslav Markicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-15-0.u33765	Dear Vice President, I'd like to ask you, before I start speaking, for a little silence, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-15-0.u33766	I ask the MPs to listen with attention to Mr Markicevic, unlike the address of the previous speaker, Mr Dimitrijevic, who has not even heard from the minors because of the marbles in the hall.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-15-0.u33767	Your Honor, I'd like a little notice from you first. I would ask the President of the Assembly if he were here, and it concerns the parliamentary rights to inform, or questions that they are asking. I recently visited a show with a young colleague from the ruling coalition, and I realized that the answers to my questions, the whole public knows what I'm asking, what questions I've been asking for two months, and I am convinced that the other fellow MPs don't even get answers to these questions. I ask, thanks to both the services and the presidents and the vice presidents who were up-to-date and practically forced almost all the ministers I called here and asked for heroic health, why are the other fellow Members of the People's Parliament not delivering the answers that come to me alone? I have no first choice but to have an exclusive to the Minister's answers. I get the impression that one of my colleagues from the ruling coalition would also be interested in answering the questions I asked, because I did not ask these questions out of pure whim, but because of the citizens' interest, their standard. So I asked about the money, because these days we see that the budget is being adopted and that they're going to follow the laws, that we're taking various loans, and the loans are being taken by the state, by a society that doesn't have any money. Therefore, the competent ministers, and fellow MPs should know they have an obligation to ask whether they are in the ruling coalition or in opposition parties, in New Serbia, such as myself, whether the competent ministers and competent state institutions are giving answers to questions. Today, they are asking the finance minister for a notice, as regards Governor Jelasic's behaviour. We have witnessed the last 48 hours of simply amazing statements made by Governor Jelasic. He refused to meet with representatives of the government and businesses, while meeting with representatives of the American Chamber of Commerce, which is good and I don't think anyone here has anything against it, but it's not a good thing he didn't want with representatives of the domestic economy, with business owners, with managers who employ thousands of workers. Some of them are not able, justified or unjust, to pay these workers. An economic analyst, who is to believe, says: "Our bill has shown that the shift of the euro rate by just one dinar, the total economic arrangement towards banks, which is 20 billion euros, has increased by 20 billion dinars." Doesn't everyone in the O.R. and the general public seem that Governor Jelasic should answer some questions? Another economic analyst from a state-run printed media says, "The governor has rightly shared advice, suggestions and criticisms at the expense of the executive government all year round," and pointed to many of the jobs the government has been avoiding to do. Maybe that's why he'd have to have more hearing about critics coming from business circles. The governor's theory that the market determines the course of the dinar becomes inconclusive the moment Serbia simultaneously boasts that it has a dinar whose price has been set by the market and grieves because it has destroyed the economy." So, I ask the Minister of Finance, who presented the 2010 draft budget here, which the Assembly needs to adopt and see that the money is not enough, that it must be saved at all levels of government and that citizens are recommended to tighten the belt, so I repeat the issue for Finance Minister Diana Dragutinovic – as she comments on Governor Jelasic's statements, whether he is a state state in the country, respecting the NBS institution and the NBS governor, or his independence that exists in every country. The people say "play for the belts too". For years, the man has been acting as if he were a representative of foreign businessmen and foreign banks, not as governor of the most important financial institution in this country - the NBS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-15-0.u33768	Thank you. Of course the issue will be forwarded to the finance minister. As for the notices you requested from me, I would like to direct you to the very clear and unequivocal provisions of Article 235. The Rules of Procedure, where notice is required for the exercise of the function of the MP and, on the other hand, answers are provided in writing to the MP. It's everyone's duty to do it within 15 days. Therefore, this type of notice is not distributed to other MPs, unlike the parliamentary questions you ask in writing to the ministers or to the Government, in the capacity of control of the executive authority, which, of course, is distributed to everyone with a question and answer. Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-15-0.u33769	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, I would like today to ask a question that I was not in a position to ask during a three-day debate on the set of laws accompanying the 2010 budget and during the debate on the budget itself. I refer the issue to Minister of Labour and Social Policy Rasim Ljajic and Mr Cvetkovic, as his Prime Minister. I'm curious at what point will they start dealing with the problems of people who are doing something in this country? It is obvious that they have dedicated their function exclusively to people who have no job in Serbia and those who are victims of transition in our society. It is very important to understand the essence of the problem that we are seeing today, which nobody obviously wants to solve – the problem of people who have been creating something in this country for the past 10 years, who are trying to do it both at this time and nobody is dealing with it, because the number of those who work is much smaller than the number of those who do not work and that it is more profitable to talk to those who are victims of transition, but also their unwillingness to change, but to have a dialogue with those who, despite everything, are creating something. I want to ask you, Mr. Vice President - when will we get the opportunity to, within the framework of the law, which the government has delegated its representatives to, we talk to authorised representatives about something like that? We had a debate here yesterday about the draft law on financial support for the family. The law shows how right the LDP was when it asked the government to introduce order, nothing more than order, into the widest segment of public spending, which is a segment of consumption directly linked to the financing of the pension fund. First, pensioners are victims of the government's impunity and irresponsibility to bring order into the pension sector, and then yesterday we faced the fact that the victims also became families in the country. I'm sure it's not in the interest of the pensioners or their families. We saw here yesterday before us a government that appeared to us with a bill that changes a three-month period to a one-year period of base that is defined as the basis for funding the mother's maternity allowance. It has been said that the employer, practically, negotiates for three months which are used as a basis, raises unreal profits. If we've seen this anomaly at family level, and it's just a result of the urgency, when are we going to commit ourselves to obvious inconsistencies and pension defaults? First, the pensioners are victims of it, and yesterday we saw who else is the victim - family, children, mothers who are reducing financial support. 25% of pensions in Serbia are paid based on disability. We all know very well how many abuses there have been. The government does not want to deal with it because it guards its electoral body, but therefore shortens financial support for the family, and it is reportedly considering the future. We need Minister Ljajic to discuss this. He was an authorised representative of the government both for the Pensions Act and for the Family Financial Support Act. We refer to the question to him - when he will start doing his job, and his job is not only to share computers and be a people's mother who has an understanding for everyone, but to send a message to Serbia that his ministry is willing to respect both those who work and at the same time to take care of the way money is spent, so it introduces order into the greatest abuses that we can imagine at this point, and these are abuses within the pension fund. It's a request from the pensioners themselves. We've had our lines heated in the last few days by pensioners who support what we're talking about, because it's clear that everything that seemed to last year doesn't fit either pensioners or all of Serbia, that it can't be good for one segment of our society at the expense of the rest of the work. The question of the perspective of young people is raised, and we know very well how narrow she is. Here on Saturday, the minister of education spoke, commenting that he had nowhere to say what he said in the assembly. What kind of Serbia is a country where the education minister has no space for its policy? We stand out 0.2% for science, we want to have a bigger social product so that we can meet the social obligations of the state. The larger social product is related to more production, more work, more work looking for stronger connections with the world, stronger relationships with the world cannot be the result of love but of clear interests. These interests cannot be realized here, because our government has no understanding for its own employers, how will they have understanding for employers coming from the world? If workers block Corridor for 10 days, no one cares who's right anymore, the state is incapable of protecting vital communications, and she doesn't want to do it, not because she can't, but because she won't confront her voters. That way we won't get anywhere. A question for the Minister of Labour - what does he do for those who do something in this country?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-15-0.u33770	Thank you. The issue will be addressed both to the prime minister and to Minister Ljajic, as you asked, and very soon. Mr. Marash, there's no breach of the Rules of Procedure today, so if you're reading the Rules of Procedure, it's clear. The word is Mr. Sasa Milenić. Just one moment. Let me read you the official notice that's new to me. We would like to inform you that on Tuesday, December 15th, we will not be able to follow the meeting of the Serbian Parliament in a direct transmission on the second RTS programme from 11.00 to 12:00 due to the transfer of the central state ceremony to mark the 95th anniversary of the Kolubar Battle of Lazarec. After the transfer is completed from Lazarets, we will continue the transfer of work of the Assembly. So it's obvious that this one hour will go on a delayed transmission, as so far as it's been practice. We're going back to Mr. Milenic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-15-0.u33771	Dear Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of Parliament group G 17 plus I ask the question of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, more specifically to the Ministry of Finance, i.e. Mrs. Dragutinovic: for when does the Government plan to submit to the Assembly a draft law to return property to cities and municipalities in Serbia? To be precise about formulating the question, so I'm not asking if the government is going to do it, because I know it's going to, I'm not asking if it will, because it simply has to, because the Constitution guarantees the property of local self-government, but rather precisely for when, for what period in the business calendar, it plans to pay attention to this issue. The constitution, as we know, restricts the right of citizens to local self-government and province autonomy in the Republic of Serbia. You'll admit that without the material support that's being looked at and in the property, such a right is quite declarative. For my party, Together for the Shumadi, as well as for the coalition partner G 17 plus, integratedly and for the G 17 Plus parliamentary group, civil rights issues, as well as issues of local self-government affirmation, even regional development and decentralisation of relations in the state and society are one of the reasons for the existence and objectives of political struggle. As we are planning important work in the coming year on these topics, I ask that within the scheduled deadlines we get an answer to this precise question so that we can plan our jobs on time too. I'd like to thank you in advance for your understanding.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-15-0.u33772	Thank you, Mr. Milenich. The word has a folk MP, Mr Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-15-0.u33773	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, and this institution of asking parliamentary questions twice a week has had a complete breakdown and in the best way shows that this ruling majority through some form wants to literally bring parliament and MPs down to the executive authority's pendant and that all that is done here is only on the day of voting when proposals coming from the government should be voted upon. This best shows the attitude towards the parliamentary issues that we ask, and not only do we not get an answer, but the answers we get simply insult intelligence. I suppose you remember, ladies and gentlemen, that I asked a question about a consortium of consulting firms he was doing, providing those services to JAT Erwayz, where he charged exactly one million euros. Remember that only one Jimmy Mudd received 2,424 euros a day for the work he was doing, and in response to my asked question that was very simple, to give me an answer to what this consortium had done and what it recommended about JAT Airways here is said: "to privatise the public air transport company JAT Airways said, according to the contract, it built and delivered analyses of the legal regulatory, financial, market and assessment of the value of capital and property, as well as studies on the privatisation strategy". It is particularly important that this "as well as studies on the privatisation strategy". Be careful what the answer says to my request to receive these papers: "The Agency has submitted all studies as contributions, but in the interest of protecting the upcoming implementation of the tender procedure is not in accordance with the regulations, it is explicitly prohibited to present documentation and data before the sale process is completed." Then how can she say, "The Agency has delivered all the studies as contributions"? Who? I only got these two papers. This has really crossed every possible line. What is the situation with JAT Airways best says a letter from the JAT stockholders' association sent among other things to Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic, Parliament Speaker, Infrastructure Minister, Parliament Group Chiefs, JAT Ervejz Assembly President JAT Ervejz and Serbian President Boris Tadic. They're exactly the ones who say things here. He says, "From a company that's been doing very well for the last nine years, we've made it to a big loser." During that period several final accounts were not even adopted, although there is a legal obligation to do so. The company is decommissioned, parts of the company are separated, thus reducing capital, and from the moment the company is formed as a stock company it is not even legally allowed. Many parts of JAT that have been built or purchased from the funds that the employees have allocated from their own profits have been separated. Some of the examples include buying old and building a new hotel "Slavija", building hangars and buying a trial table for the purposes of technique, investing in facilities and equipment of Tivat, Podgorica, Belgrade, apartments Kopalnik, are separate parts that functionally, and above all financially cannot exist or survive on their own terms. The most impressive example is the JAT technique and its separation from the parent company. During the separation in JAT, 2,100 remain employed and 924 in the technique. Today, the technique has more employees than in JAT, so they say -- responsibility for all of this must be assumed by you, President Boris Tadic and Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, because all this time, the state of Serbia has appointed as the 100% owner of the company JAT from the DS or its coalition partner, and this is the best example of what is happening.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-15-0.u33774	If I understand correctly, these questions are both addressed to the prime minister. Thank you. As far as the MPs' institute is concerned, I must refer you to section 15, Section 3, members from 199 to 203. Rules of Procedure. There are regulated parliamentary issues, and today we have 235, these are notices that help lawmakers in their work. If the MP, within the time limit provided for by the Rules of Procedure, which is 15 days, does not receive notice, I would ask that the 16th day immediately alert the service so that we can intervene and see why the MP's notice is not given in good time. It is about one request that would shorten this process significantly. I'll take it. Here you go, Mr. Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-15-0.u33775	Mr. Vice President, I thank you for this notice, but I was just beginning to say how pointless this is. I, for example, have been asking a question about the assets of the former SK, the Alliance of Communists of Yugoslavia, since June or July 2008. I didn't get an answer until today. I have appealed to the President of the Assembly, and then to the second vice president, so here I appeal to you now, that you do something that I finally get an answer to the question asked. It's something about 300 objects, it's known which ones are, it's known what the 2001 Law means about funding political parties, but obviously, I'm 100% sure it's a crime. If they're not able to give me an answer -- what objects are they, whether in the meantime there's been a change in the owners of these objects, although it's against the law, but do something to make really what we're doing make sense, because then this is a complete story that is completely immaterial, without any weight. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-15-0.u33776	Thank you, and I agree with you. On my part, I can only promise you that from this moment on, I will run after these questions and see why you don't have the notice you asked for. (Dragan Todorovic, from the place: I will bring you water when you are tired.) So, from June to December, if I didn't know what he was born to do. I'm going to have the help of the present minister here, so this time, we're going to help God three times. Thank you. No one's answering for a word anymore. Notice of the absence of the People's Messengers. The sittings were prevented from attending the following MPs: Milica Radovic, Momo Colaković, Đuro Peric, Donka Banovic, Vladimir Milentijevic and Laslo Varga. Notification of the invited to the session. I would like to inform you that the President is in agreement with Article 88(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, in addition to the representatives of proposing Dr Diana Dragutinovic, the finance minister, also called Milutin Mrkonjic, the Minister of Infrastructure and Rasim Ljajic, the Minister of Labour and Social Policy, as well as Visnja Kuzmanovic and Aleksandr Popovic, younger advisers at the finance ministry. We move to a joint single search of the 7-11th agenda: – PROPOSALS ON CONFORMATION OF THE SERBIA AGREEMENT: WITH IBRD (development of the private, financial sector and public finances), SA EBRD (loan of K10) AND SA EIB (passway corridor 10 and loan for municipal and regional infrastructure B) The word has a National MP, Slobodan Maras, who was interrupted in eight minutes remaining time. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-15-0.u33777	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we finished our workday yesterday, and I know Mr. Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic was writing and he probably remembers what we talked about. The topic we gathered about yesterday, that is, that you are a representative of the Government, is what Serbia is doing, and what we have touched and what I hope you have received and received some answers in the meantime, are these future guarantees that Serbia will provide to various banks, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the European Investment Bank, and above all, when it comes to the Public Enterprise "Serbia". Since the amount is very large, $150 million, $25 million, $170 million, $35 million, $20 million, $20 million, and these are really very large amounts for a company you're losing. What am I saying that for? We are also in the principle debate, when it comes to the 2010 budget, and I know that you agree with it, you have confirmed it, as a problem, put the situation in place to fund losers with this 2010 budget. Of course, "Srbijagas" as a public company that has taken the obligation to build a pipeline together with Russia's majority partner, Gazprom, to fill a Banatski dvor, has difficulties because it operates in conditions that are unfavourable for the company itself, i.e. the price of gas in Serbia, is probably strained when it comes to the market price of gas. We offered solutions to get out of such a problem, and one of these solutions was what we have been talking about for more than a year, which is to make it possible for Serbia to do everything and thus enable "Serbigas" to enable those who create this budget not to get in charge, to abolish the mediator between Serbia and Russia who has, I showed about a month ago profit in 2008, while our "Srbigas" is a public enterprise at a loss. We were here a month ago, Mr. Mrkonjic, with a law of lex specialis, a law that has derivated the existing Expropriation Act, a law that gives one company the opportunity to expropriate a country of 166km through Serbia, although it is contrary to the Expropriation Act, and that company is "Yugorosgas". This "Yugorosgas" since 1996, since the Serbia-Russia Agreement, had only one obligation: to gas Serbia, to gass Serbia, and now that we look at what Serbia will give guarantees to these banks, when it comes to "Srbigas", we see that this is about gasification, we see that this is about filling up the Banat Court, and we have a Russian partner, and you know how much it has been invested in the Banatski Court. That's why this is one topic we need to talk about openly. Of course we want the South Stream pipeline, of course we want Serbia to be gas-supply, but we have a problem if the funds within that company are still operating in the most economical way. This brings us back to the key issue - how much does this debate on the 2010 budget make sense? 240 amendments have been submitted, and we will soon receive an answer from the government. I suppose that response from the government will be negative in 99% of the cases, but I hope that in one government will understand, or whoever writes the laws, or the Government's Legislative Secretariat, that they will understand one thing that the 2010 draft budget is unconstitutional, because there is no respected point that Vojvodina must receive at least 7% of the republican budget. It is also a fundamental remark by the circuit finance secretary that documented it with the figures. It is an observation by those who have said, from the ruling coalition, that they will not support this draft budget unless it is amended, but it is logical that no one supports such a draft budget if it is anti-constitutional. Transfers in local self-governments amounting to six billion, and local self-governments in the AP Vojvodina count in these 7%, which is unconstitutional. It doesn't matter, and that's how Vojvodina was damaged by some six billion dinars. There are things that we need to take care of, even though these agenda points are separated, in fact they all create our future and our 2010 year that we are sitting here, and I'm sure those of you who are in executive power want to end up in a better way than this one. But to do that, we need to discuss the DRI report, we need to discuss the 2008 final account, and all of this is disabled, Mr. Mrkonjic. Which is why no one is clear. From any suspicion, attack, any conjecture, people are best defended by the truth. I don't see what the problem was for the Prime Minister to sit here. It is his problem to sit here, because when he explained the budget for three minutes he was there, but there were other ministers who could, above all, Mrs Dragutinovic and the other ministers, account for what those ministries were doing in 2008. We know that there's been a change of government and of course we don't think that all responsibility for some failures lies with ministers who are currently doing the job, but if you have a report from the DRI that says that of the 12 ministries that are controlled, almost all have been found irregularity. Public procurement was not made in accordance with the law. Any company that's not owned by the state, a private company, that's 10 times less irregularity found in a private company, is being shut down by entrepreneurs because they don't issue a 20 dinar bill, they pay enormous fines, and we have a situation that nobody's guilty here. The prime minister sits there and says they're the guilty accountants. Bookkeepers can't be blamed if the failures are related to public procurement. That's what you know, of course. It's the job of the one who makes the decision, the guilt of the one who makes the decision. We really can't get into 2010 without answering the question, Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, I know it's not your portfolio, but your party colleague is holding that portfolio, Mr. Skundric (President: Time). ). Last sentence. We cannot enter 2010 unless we know who is responsible for the losses in the NIS of 100m euros. I think that's really the key question.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-15-0.u33778	Do the presidents, or representatives of parliamentary groups who have not used their right, want a word? Yeah. ) Mr. Dragan Stevanović has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-15-0.u33779	Ladies and gentlemen, if any of us here in the hall were to take a position on a set of agreements debated over this third item of the agenda, or within this third item of the agenda, on how it ended last night, from everything Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic said, from everything the MPs said mostly to the opposition, then I repeat, there is no impression that anyone would have anything against this vote or supporting these agreements, but we can't talk about this additional borrowing of Serbia to corridor 10, i.e. on the E75 highway. It's just one in a set of these laws. They are all contentious, but when it comes to the law for which Minister Mrkonjic is here, the SRS has said many times and so far that if the state has to or has a commitment to be in debt, then it is much smarter and more rational to spend money in infrastructure, in capital spending, than to spend money in thoughtlessness, and we haven't been in a position, rarely in the last 10 years, to spend money for thoughtlessness. One question arises and the finding that a billion euros has been spent through the NIP in Serbia so far, so we can't exactly boast, to sum up and see where the effects of the hundreds of billions of dinars are. The SRS also last time in one of the debates, the last or last time we talked about credit borrowing, supporting agreements relating to credit funds for corridor 10, also in some way supported it, because we think it's rational and smart to spend money like that, and even if it's more expensive in terms of interest than spending it on something that's abstract. When it comes to the government as well as the tendency of individuals in that government, the question really arises whether anyone in this country is serious and responsible should give support to the loans they have, I would say, in my final outcome, an abstract goal. What is also important, this credit for Corridor 10 refers to its most complex section when it comes to highways, a section that passes through the Gredile ravine. For those who have not had the opportunity to hear this so far, it is the south of Serbia and it seems to me that because of the economic situation of southern Serbia and because of the fact that the Constitution has obliged us to develop the Republic of Serbia in a balanced manner, we personally believe in the SRS that the funds should be spent as quickly and as efficiently as possible in this area. What the SRS appeal to you in this sense is, Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, that while you're already spending the money that the state owes you and you're looking to the south of Serbia to activate all domestic companies and businesses, so that the south of Serbia would finally feel the effects and video benefits of credit borrowing, the money that has been burdened by generations after us. We can dispute what the state is in debt for and for this, but when you, Mr. Mrkonjic, are concerned about infrastructure, your ministry, you have a bigger problem with the Government of the Republic of Serbia about the schedule of our domestic funds, the money provided in the budget through different models on the receiving side. If you implement the 2010 budget, the budget that we are discussing for the last two or three days, objectively, not just us in the opposition, I personally think that neither you should nor should be satisfied with the way the money is being allocated, especially when it comes to capital spending or investment in capital investments. You see, 12 billion, that's a lot of words, it's scheduled for railways. We're not saying we shouldn't, and there's no recognition of capital costs, i.e. investments in raising consumption and the economy of Serbia, but many opposition MPs have said and the SRS reminds you, of these 12 billion funds will dominantly go to the salaries or social component of this story. Now what a drop in the sea is, and those 12 billion will try to illustrate the data so that Serbian railways on corridor 10 become as compatible with rails in the environment or in the EU. Five to sevenm euros should be invested continuously for the next eight years. This is the information on which I am trying to make a comparison, one completely irrational and unsustainable availability of funds under the Republic of Serbia's budget. Therefore, we can argue whether the state is over-indebted or not. The fact is that we have a lot of burden, that we need to figure out, let's just say, in this year alone, 13 billion dinars have been paid off by the principal, and in the following year it increases by four billion. This applies only to the repayment of the principal of our debt, which is inside, which is out, and not to say that we spent total this year, or that we plan to spend about 35 billion in the next year on the payments of interest and the current costs related to our borrowings, i.e. administrative and other loans. Therefore, Serbia really is in trouble when it comes to credit borrowing and it seems to me that it's not enough for someone in the government to tell you, you know, we're not in charge or we're in charge. There is a good part of the economic and professional public that ideologically, we must admit, is prone to the parties that are in government today, which are increasing and greater fences than the government's economic policy, especially when it comes to economic policy – the borrowing policy of the RS, a completely non-chalant approach in taking money by post-poto. The least controversial credit in the whole story is a credit that applies to Corridor A-10, but no one talks about other borrowings, which are, what they are and what they are about. You have an agreement – the means to withdraw from this agreement and do you know who they are? Reforms in the area of public finance management that would improve the existing poor governance of fiscal spending and help improve the financial conditions, and writes – implementing a more comprehensive, more integrated medium-term framework for budget planning and preparation, we insist on this, improving the system, monitoring and controlling public finances, including external and internal audits and public procurement, improving public debt management. Three days of SRS MPs and other opposition parties are attacking the government because of the DRI report, we criticise the budget, the model of how it was made and how it was defined, and then the day after that we receive a request to support an agreement that will in some way improve or affirm the system of treatment of public finances in Serbia. At the same time, from the finance minister to the last government official, we are convinced that the budget is high-quality, improved compared to last year and that the funds are being spent rationally and wisely. We have witnessed that at one point of debate Mrs Dragutinovic said in the final word – yes, our budget is not in line with standards, and then she starts to convince us – what is wrong with the line model of budget definition. We put it in one way or another. I repeat, two days later, we are asked to support a loan that will improve the availability of public finances and not again call on the DRI report, a report of the budgetary inspection that we have on several occasions, the SRS MPs, mentioned the 2008 budget inspection report, where of the 60 institutions treated 20, all the Republic ministries, directors and agencies, which are found not to be in line with the laws that the Government makes, from public procurement, the budgetary system, etc. We cannot understand and accept the fact that 10 years after coming to power, you are calling on us to support Serbia's credit borrowing which, among other things, will bring back our generations who know how much after us and to improve what you should have done in 2001 and 2002. The Minister says -- you know, it takes us 10 years to define the budget. We ask – what have you been doing for 10 years? We can't spend our whole lives repeating the '90s, then the '90s. You are in power as much as those who were in the 1990s and today we realize that we are unconsciously spending public finances and that we need to improve the system of control, establishment and spending of public finances, and that's absurd, and that's nonsense. They have been an expression of the government's economic policy in continuity since 2000, an expression of weakness that they are not ready to identify themselves as essential economic, social and other changes and reforms in the state that we objectively need, but that you cannot offer through your economic policy objectively to the state. The second agreement, be careful what is offered – implementing fiscal adjustment measures that will increase macroeconomic stability both during the global economic crisis and the degree of trust of potential investors. Commend yourself to your investments in the last year. Over the past year, a billion and a half euros of investment has been projected on the revenue side of the budget. A month and a half ago, that score was only 700 million, and 400 million went to NIS since NIS privatisation. That's what it says about the business and the economic environment that you don't want to talk about. You create a mist and fiction in the people that something works and something is directed right. You say – improving investment businesses in the territory of the borrower, building a more efficient and stable financial sector by continuing restructuring of state ownership in the banking and insurance sectors, improving the business environment to stimulate more investment in the private sector. That's what we've been listening to for 10 years, but now we're not just listening, now we're borrowing credit for it, because in 10 years, we haven't been able to secure funds from our own incomes and show a little political will to bring order here. You say by the end of 2010, private sector participation in GDP is 60%. It's blocked 60,000 firms. General indifference. The business environment is completely ruined. Go to one session of any committee in the Chamber of Commerce, let them tell you how they live, how they work and how they function. Let those governments try to return and reduce to the world of reality, to feel everyday, in what conditions those who are objectively dominantly full of budget work, and how the government treats them and how it treats them. It identified a billion and 400 million dinars in the following year for subsidies to greenfield investment enterprises. Be careful now to compare one thing – for a year, the government is ready to define a billion and 400 million dinars as aid, loans and subsidies for greenfield investments, while at the same time there is a law that says the following, when it comes to corporate income tax – who invests 600 million dinars in their assets in the company, the basic means of owning it, in the coming years I don't know how much, the relative size of the investment, will be exempt from corporate tax. You're asking 600 million to invest, to hire 100 workers, and you're like the government ready to define a billion and 400 million for subsidies. What an absurd. Who can seriously experience and treat this government? Which of those who move into the economy, who live out of the economy and who really make up the real sector? These billions and 400 million are the funds you want to improve the export sector in Serbia and raise economic opportunities in Serbia, but when you look at what is in some other ministries and for some other purposes, your head hurts. That's what we mentioned when we talked about the budget. The Minister for Sports' discretion is a billion and 100 million dinars. Even those funds will not be shared by the government's decision, we told you, as Minister Dragutinovic says – it is flexible and it is good that the minister of sports has a discretionary right to have a billion dinars. These are some absurdities that really reflect that in Serbia they define themselves and create the economic environment that we have today. These are not answers to the disaster in the economic sense that you have established. We said nicely in the principle debate that the programme budget of the Republic of Serbia was defined, Serbia would only succeed in saving 20 billion dinars. Now imagine, that's what we said at the time, that 20 billion dinars were relieved of the budget deficit, that 20 billion dinars, Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, would be given to you in your Ministry of Capital Investments, so you don't have to spend it on your own. To be a co-financed component for another loan or another loan, or some other grant from whatever funds you want from European, Russian, Chinese, it doesn't matter. But imagine what kind of momentum that would be for the country, both for consumption and for our economic life. We're here to bargain about 10, 20, 30, 100 million, which, of course, will not be brought back by this government. Look at the grace periods. Isanalyse into the budget. Well, we haven't really started paying off our debts for two or three or four years. Imagine when it all comes to charge. From day to day, a new agreement, a new loan, a new agreement and a new loan. As an economic category for us, loans are not unacceptable. But it must be known why they are being spent and that the effects of these financial resources are being felt on the ground and that they are being felt by the one and the last citizen who could feel them living, working and being in Serbia. Of course, we don't think the state is doing this responsibly, you can't say that you're willing to borrow credit just because someone said that, either we're not or we're in charge, you can't say, you can, of course, defeating the fact that that's how you've been finding out last year, we've done everything we can. That money is smarter, that money is divided rationally, that the meaning is recognised, and that someone who manages Serbia's economic policy today sees Serbia tomorrow, the day after tomorrow and the day after where it should be? What role should he play here? Not only in the region, in the European continent in general, then really the budget would be different, then we would really have less space here for criticism and for accusations. This budget and these loans and all that you ask of us is the continuity of the irrational, incompetent and non-domestic economic policy run by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, Mirko Cvetkovic and Boris Tadic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-15-0.u33780	I apologize to Mr. Jovanovic. What's the basis?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-15-0.u33781	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Gristleman, Article 27. Since the president isn't here, you're required to provide us with normal working conditions. I don't think Mr. Mrkonjic can tell us anything at all about the programme loan for the development of public finances. He is not even an authorised representative for this item of the agenda, and directly that item of the agenda is the biggest obstacle to the debate on these other agenda points for which Mr. Mrkonjic is in charge. Because if we define this loan as a prerequisite for introducing order into public finances, and, on the other hand, we take 75 million dollars for municipal and regional infrastructure, then it's clear that we're practically creating ourselves a problem. It would be good for the minister to come here, and there's a younger advisor at the finance ministry, Višnja Kuzmanovic, to practically tell us more about this loan, because we can't, and I think it's pointless to talk to Mrkonjic about all this. (Milutin Mrkonjic: Diana prepares answers to the amendments, she will be up in half an hour. I understand everything, but give me a minute to...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-15-0.u33782	Please don't conduct verbal communication like this, I understand, Mr. Jovanovic, but I have to interrupt you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-15-0.u33783	It would be nice if you could teach the minister how he behaves in the congregation. Last time he was here as a representative of the government in charge of silence, it was a day in which MPs were asking questions to the government, so he couldn't answer the questions asked by the government, as an institution, and he couldn't answer the questions that were asked to him personally, as a member of the UO NIS, but well, okay. Let's see how we handle this and rule out this agenda and how we behave. We understand that the minister is now working on amendments, but we cannot discuss this important loan of 70m euros, 100m dollars that are going to reform public finances, or subtract that item from the agenda, or let's see how we're going to solve this issue. If the government treats it so irresponsiblely, then let us not wait for us to agree to it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-15-0.u33784	I understand, but there's no breach of article 27. So today I've also read who's authorized before the government to come here and yesterday, all the MPs were given this kind of report by the government who was authorized to represent the government and later, you certainly got it. There's no breach of the provisions. If you're not happy with this explanation, I'll be very happy to take it to Vote Day, but there's really no need, at least I think so. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-15-0.u33785	I understand that this has little to do with you, but with whom should we discuss a 70m-euro loan for public finance reform. The government has appointed as its representative finance minister, and logically, then yesterday she sent a little note here that changes something like that, but we have no one to talk to, no ministry commissioners, no one who can answer any questions about it. Or we could agree not to talk about the loan. Then let's not be responsible for tomorrow's problem resulting from the fact that we haven't been able to properly discuss this agenda point. If we have to save at every step, let's see if the behaviour is responsible and an adequate debate on the loan this country is taking by borrowing its citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-15-0.u33786	Thank you, Mr. Jovanovic. You're pleased with my explanation, that's how I realized it. Thank you very much. I've got to do something now, it's really hard for me, I'm gonna take a 15-minute break, do the necessary consultations, and we're gonna keep working at 12.30 hours.
