ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-20-0.u28417	Dear ladies and gentlemen, honourable MPs, I am opening the first special session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009. I called this special session to be addressed by the President of the Russian Federation, Mr Dmitri Anatolevich Medvedev. Let me, for 20 October – The Day of Liberation of Belgrade from Fascism – congratulate all citizens on the holiday. It is my honor, on behalf of the People's MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and on my behalf, to welcome all the esteemed guests and distinguished representatives of the diplomatic crust. [[Applause]] I ask Mr. Dmitri Anatolevich Medvedev, president of the Russian Federation, to take his word. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-20-0.u28418	Thank you. Dear Madam President, honourable MPs, ladies and gentlemen, dear friends, I am truly looking forward to speaking here in the National Assembly. It is a great honor for any executive, including the president of the Russian Federation, especially since today is a special day of great importance for Europe, for Serbia and Russia, the day of Belgrade's 60-year-old release from fascist occupations. I warmly congratulate you on this holiday that has been entered in the joint yearbook of our victory. Serbia keeps a memory of all those who gave their lives for its release. I saw it today when I laid flowers on the Liberation Cemeteries, where Soviet soldiers and officers were buried. I would like to thank the people of Serbia with all my heart, on behalf of our country, for the responsible and noble attitude towards the history of World War II. Serbs should not be explained on whose side justice was at the time. You fought the fascists bravely and self-sacrificely, but such resistance to the Nazis, as it is known, is history, was not made available everywhere. The Third Reich did not then come across resistance in several countries of Europe, so that some war could be fought on some kind of resistance to Hitler when a whole series of countries in Europe not only supported but also fought on the side of Hitler's regime. Some countries have chosen co-laborationism, methodically helping Hitler's war machine with their deliveries. We should openly say that the responsibility of such political regimes is also obvious. Had it not been for such support, the number of victims of fascism could have been different. I'm talking about it not to wake up the phantoms of the past, but to remember it. They should remember especially those who are now trying to reverse history for themselves in order to achieve their own political interests. Of course, such personalities need the same as Hitler's and the Soviet Union's responsibility for the start of the war. No one can idealize Stalin's regime. But the Soviet Union didn't start that war, it's known to all honest people. The twisting of historical facts is always essentially embarrassing, especially when it comes to facts like those of great misery. That's disgusting. We, in any case, consider in our country such an act as ignoring the results of World War II and ignoring the decisions of the Nuremberg tribunal. Russia is for a fair analysis of history. We have always defended and we will defend such an approach, I would like to say it right here in Serbia and right now, on the day of the sixty-fiveth anniversary of Belgrade's liberation from fascist occupiers. The lessons of the past are needed not for scientific debates, they should encourage all of us not to repeat mistakes. They teach us not to invent reasons to justify some action, often destructive, but to unite forces against the great threats that exist for the entire European continent and the whole world. This dictates our country's initiative to make a new agreement and to create a modern, more efficient system of European security, a system that is not directed against anyone, but that will consolidate us, unify us, independent of block membership, independent of ideology. Basically, we suggest that we put new legal obligations, whose most important approaches and international principles are all shared today. The main purpose of these principles and these ideas is that we must not deal with security issues at the expense of the safety of others. Security is indivisible and this is the most important lesson in World War II and the sad events of the 1990s and unfortunately some dramatic events from the recent history of this decade. I mean the Balkan crisis and events in August 2008 at the Caucasus, which were called Georgian aggression. They all showed the ineffectiveness of the current security system and the intrinsic necessity for it to be modernised. The preparation and signing of a European Security Treaty would become the beginning of a single security space in the Euro-Atlantic zone. It would provide reliable and equal guarantees for all countries, I repeat again, regardless of which military alliances they belong, regardless of what integration structures they are involved in. I think those present in this room understand well how important it is to strengthen the clear rules of prevention and peaceful conflict resolution in the future contract. Such a resolution of the sea can take place in stages. First, obligations are accepted in relation to non-use of force, follow confidence-building measures and finally measures to develop constructive dialogue between the parties in the conflict. Just like that, not by making sometimes absurd and very dangerous political decisions. Only time invites us to move to a new level of solving common problems. The world community has many. They are well-known, international terrorism, organised crime and energy security issues are current on the European continent. And today it's due to the global financial and economic crisis. In European and world affairs, the time has come to make sure that we change the international climate. I find the United States' turn towards negotiating positions, as a whole, to multilateral diplomacy. Previous approaches compromised 100%. The Russian Federation is ready to harmonise relations with the US and other Western partners, including constructive co-operation with NATO, in the interest of solving our joint tasks. We already have a strategic partnership with the EU, which has been called on to become one of the pillars of a new Europe. We do not and cannot have any allergies to join the EU from new members, including from Southeast Europe. For Russia, it is undoubtedly the most important that new EU members develop good relations with the Russian Federation, that EU membership does not violate traditional friendly relations with these countries, but contributes to close mutual understanding. That applies entirely to Serbia. Dear ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, Russia and Serbia are unique in understanding the strict respect of the principles of international law, in not accepting unilateral and sometimes violent methods of solving international problems. An example of constructive political co-operation between our countries is the issue of resolving the Kosovo crisis. The events that took place after Kosovo's unilateral declaration of independence in February 2008, confirmed the failure of attempts to address complex interethnic problems to adapt to the understanding of the famous political purpose. We find it inadmissible, as was the case with the Kosovo precedent, that the lack of progress on negotiations is used as a cause for unilateral action, including recognition of new international law entities. The basic solution to Kosovo's problem should be international law, including the UN's certainly decision-making Security Council Resolution, in particular Resolution 1244. Russia is ready to provide future assistance to Serbia in defence of its national interests. I want to underline that we are categorically against the withdrawal of incorrect parallels between events in the Balkans and the Caucasus. As far as South Ossetia is concerned, there is our unequivocal and absolutely clear attitude. It was about refusing and stopping open military aggression. What Russia later did is fully in line with the UN Charter. Russia will certainly provide versatile support to the two young Caucasus republics. In this way, it will contribute to strengthening stability in the Caucasus region. Dear friends, our relations, relations between the Russian Federation and Serbia are now on the rise. This is not just a visit, the first visit to the president of the Russian Federation to new Serbia, but it is also that we have achieved this level of partnership relations openly, well-intentioned and absolutely constructively discussing all the issues that concern us. We can find the smartest solutions, find compromises for the most difficult economic problems. We seek to give our interstate co-operation the character of a strategic partnership. The basis of these processes was and are our economic relations. Last year, agreements were reached between our countries on strategic issues relating to joint projects in the oil and gas areas, and these are fundamental agreements. We sincerely want Serbia, as a result of the implementation of these agreements, to become a major regional energy player involved in the distribution and transport of Russian natural gas. Today, during the negotiations, we have been very active and we have discussed the subject a lot. Decisions taken and a potential volume to be transported through Serbian territory will give the budget significant financial resources. At the same time, we set the goal of reconstructing the oil processing and its head of NIS. Our work on those directions is progressing according to the scheduled schedule. We have just discussed this matter with the president, but I would like to express my gratitude in this room to the National Assembly of Serbia, which has ratified all these documents in due time. Without your support, these projects couldn't be realized. We have a tendency to deal not only with energy projects, although they are important for Europe, Russia and Serbia, but also to deal with other issues, which are infrastructure projects, we also talked about today, as well as issues of high-tech co-operation, because without high-tech technologies, there is no future in Serbia or the Russian Federation. We need to maintain constant communication between the entrepreneurs of our countries and help develop human contacts. Since June of this year, it has been easier to travel between our countries, which we have effectively abolished visas for those entering the deadline for up to a month. Today at the end of the negotiations we signed a whole series of important documents, there are seven, but there are even more. These documents develop our co-operation in all directions, but the economy can't shut down all the issues of our lives. It is vital that we preserve that spirit that has always contributed to the development of special relationships between our peoples. An additional boost to such co-operation should be given to a number of activities, these are the days of a spiritual culture that will be held next year in Serbia, and the same days of Serbia in the Russian Federation in 2011. We're interested in further development of our relationship. It will benefit not only Russia and Serbia, not only the Balkans, but the whole of Europe. This is probably the most important international result of my official visit to Serbia. Dear Members of the Parliament, Madam President, dear friends, I am truly very pleased and honored to be on this summit, aware that this stands for the first time has been offered to the foreign chief of state to give a speech. I am aware of my responsibilities that I have taken in this way and that I would not violate your rules of procedure I will stop speaking, but I would like to thank you again sincerely for inviting me to give a speech and congratulate you on this holy day on which our delegation's visit to Serbia took place. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-20-0.u28419	I thank Mr. Dmitri Anatolevich Medvedev. I hereby conclude the First Special Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009 and call for you to attend the cocktail at the National Assembly's central hall.
