ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-23-0.u18027	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as referred to in Article 86(1) and in accordance with Article 211 The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 114 MPs attend today's work. On the basis of a proposal from the parliamentary groups in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the Parliamentary Group Forwards Serbia and the SRS, and in accordance with Article 204 and Article 206(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly were appointed Thursday, April 23rd, 2009 starting at 10.00 a.m. as the Day for Answering Parliamentary Questions on Current Issues. Current topics with regard to which individual ministers and other officials in the government of the Republic of Serbia will answer parliamentary questions are as follows. The first topic is: Economic Policy (New Taxes, Reductions in Financial Finance of Local Self-Government, etc.).) which the Government of the Republic of Serbia will lead to an IMF request under the agreement on a new credit arrangement that will last until April 2011. YEAR, proposed by the parliamentary group Forwards Serbia. I remind you that the Progressive Group has asked Serbia to answer parliamentary questions on this topic: Mirko Cvetkovic, Prime Minister Diana Dragutinovic, Finance Minister Bozidar Djelic, Deputy Prime Minister Mladjan Dinkic, Minister for Economy and Regional Development Jovan Krkobic, Deputy Prime Minister. The second topic is — THE LAW OF THE COMMUNITY OF THE CITY OF COUNTRY AND THE EDUCATION OF THE COURT ORGANISATION OF THE CITY OF COUNTRY, which was submitted by the SRS parliamentary group. I remind you that the SRS parliamentary group has asked that parliamentary questions on this topic be answered by Mirko Cvetkovic, Prime Minister Ivica Dacic, First Vice-President - Deputy Prime Minister and Interior Minister Milan Markovic, Minister of State Administration and Local Self-Government, Snezana Malovic, Minister of Justice and Svetozar Ciplic, Minister of Human and Minority Rights. I also remind you that you have received a notice from Deputy Prime Minister General Ivica Dacic, Deputy Prime Minister of the Interior, Deputy Prime Minister Jovan Krkobibic, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Economy and Regional Development Mladjan Dinkic, Justice Minister Snezana Malovic and Human and Minority Rights Minister Svetozar Ciplic, Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia. Before we move on to asking parliamentary questions, let me remind you of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to how to ask parliamentary questions on the current subject. If several proposals for parliamentary groups have been submitted, the President of the National Assembly shall determine the order of the topics according to the time of arrival of the orderly proposals, which shall be governed by Article 206(2). Rules of Procedure. The right to ask questions shall be given by all MPs, according to the order of application, and until the total time for asking questions is up. The MPs shall submit to the President of the National Assembly a request to ask questions in writing until the start of the reply, and verbally during the duration of the reply. The MP may ask up to three questions, on the basis of Article 208. Rules of Procedure. Answering parliamentary questions may take the longest 180 minutes and shall be carried out regardless of the number of MPs present in the hall, which shall be governed by Article 207. Rules of Procedure. The time within which the MP orally asks the question is the longest three minutes, and the answer to that question is five minutes. After answering, the MP who has asked the question can ask two more questions, for a total duration of up to three minutes, and the answer to these questions may take up to five minutes. After that, other MPs have the right to ask questions, and according to the order of applications, which is regulated by Article 209. Rules of Procedure. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly shall be applied accordingly during the duration of asking questions and answering, by not allowing replication and by not allowing reference to the breach of the Rules of Procedure, which is regulated by Article 211. Rules of Procedure. Accordingly, I would ask the MPs to file applications to ask questions. I ask the Secretary of the National Assembly to take care of the order of applications filed. Since today is Thursday's working day, and on the basis of Article 235 on Thursday and Tuesday at the beginning of the session, Members of Parliament, or authorised representatives or presidents of parliamentary groups, have the right to request notice or explanation from the competent authorities or organisations within five minutes, it will first have the right to request an explanation or notification by Members of Parliament, Presidents, or authorised representatives of parliamentary groups who wish to exercise their right under Article 235. During that time, I would ask all MPs, or MPs, to submit applications to ask questions for two special sessions, whose course will begin after everyone who wishes to, exercise their right to Article 235. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is wanted by the MP Aleksandra Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-23-0.u18028	I thought we should today, and there are government representatives, I suggest, and it would be good to keep a minute of silence and pray for the souls of those who have died on RTS. If you remember, ten years ago these people died in the RTS building in a criminal NATO bombing. Tonight at 02.06 a.m., the families of the dead kept mentioning it. I think these people deserve to keep a minute of silence here in the Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-23-0.u18029	The word has a folk MP named Jorgenka Tabakovic. Please, MPs, allow me to hold a session. I heard a proposal from the People's Parliament by Aleksandra Jankovic. I would ask you to allow a minute of silence to be held at the moment the session begins, not to interrupt part of the session that implies the use of the right of Article 235. That there's still some order, respect and self-respect. So, when all the MPs who want a word based on Article 235 are finished, and before a special session begins, we will hold a moment of silence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-23-0.u18030	I am also taking the opportunity and presence of Mr Cvetkovic, Prime Minister, Mrs Dragutinovic, as finance minister, and I am sorry that Mr Dinkic is not here, too, to ask the next question. If it is already agreed in the government that Serbia pays Kosovo's debt every month to the investors, and that, due to the still unseen kidnapping and modern and anti-legal occupations of Kosovo and Metohija, Serbia does not collect its incomes and taxes, I ask – did Serbia, for such paid Kosovo debt, expose the refunding invoices to KFOR, Unmika or the EU, and if not, why not? Because that would one day allow the authorities to sit at the negotiating table and decide how to compensate for the damage done to Serbia. They obviously didn't do it before, and neither did Dinkic today, nor did Mr Cvetkovic, and they were finance ministers, nor did Mrs Dragutinovic do it today. I just want to remind the public that one such question, when journalists asked Mr Dinkic why Kosovo's debt pays Serbia, not Hashim Thaci or Haradinaj, I quote, 'Because we are fools'. I wouldn't comment on it, but I want to say that Kosovo is still and will be an integral part of Serbia. Therefore, the Prost-Serbian SNS MPs are asking the government of the Republic of Serbia to urgently expose the refunding invoices to the government of Kosovo or the EU for the total paid Kosovo debt and for the damage Serbia has suffered by continuing to suffer by not being able to use its resources and economic potentials on KIM. If the government doesn't do it, I stress, its commitment to KiM is only declarative and will give us this way to know that it actually raises its hands from KIM. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-23-0.u18031	The word is from MP Dragan Shormaz, the authorised representative of the DSS parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-23-0.u18032	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, gentlemen of the Ministers. Prime Minister, it's a good thing you're here today. I'd like to ask you one question, and the other concerns the President of the Assembly. We'll see if Mrs. Comic can answer, or she'll pass on the question. In any case, the first question is - Mr. Prime Minister, who has made the decision and when are the officers of the Republic of Serbia's Army participating in NATO's military technical exercise in Georgia, and at the command headquarters of this exercise, and at the borders with Russia, which is otherwise against holding these exercises, and has stopped talking with NATO at this moment about many issues on this administration and on these issues, and in the days when we boast that Russia now supports us in front of the Hague court in the fight to preserve Serbia's territorial integrity and sovereignty? Will anyone, at least for an announcement, ever think about sending our officers there, be held accountable? You are the most responsible, regardless of how responsible you feel about the celibacy, which I would understand given how this government behaves, but you are the most responsible, and then after you, of course, both the defence minister and the president of the state, and especially if someone happens to show up there. Questions About the National Assembly, i.e. for the President. It is known that, as President of the National Assembly, Ms Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic has double criteria, one for the majority, and the other for us from the parliamentary minority, i.e. from the opposition. It is known that this congregation is controlled by the government, rather than by the government. It is known that for months after the constitutional deadline, no one lives, no idea how much more of the law needs to be brought into line with the highest act of the state. The President of the Assembly does not even appoint a Committee on Constitutional Affairs to deal with this. When will it come to the agenda of the Duke's Statute? We've proven that the president tried to break Article 107. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia and that a number of laws proposed by the DSS parliamentary group were removed from the procedure. Of the opposition's MPs and the public of Serbia, the president of the assembly is trying to hide how money is spent in the assembly by Serbian citizens. This is the third budget in six months we adopt. Instead of knowing what we're voting on, it's obvious that behind the accounting classifications he's trying to hide something that's important. See what the budget of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is like to us, this is all that can be seen. During the crisis, awards are provided for employees, services under the 55m dinar contract, machines and equipment of 63m, buildings and construction facilities 55m. We did not find a single item in which the secretary of the assembly should come to work in a congregation car. The car plate BG 02-03, for example, left Vidovec on 3 April 2009 at 8.30 pm with the secretary of the National Assembly. I'm glad this is what the finance minister is listening to. Instead of demagogue stories of savings, you keep us informed in some of your arguments, here in economic classification 423, that there are also pre-slipping services. We never got it. We're getting those papers, preslimping not. We have provided you with a valid proposal for a measure and we ask you to provide us with the planned expenditure for 2009 for the budget of the Assembly, but according to all economic classifications. It is necessary that this be before the start of the budget debate, so that we can be qualified to discuss this act, and of course to take into account our proposal for the measures we have given to save in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-23-0.u18033	The word has been passed by Parliament MP Marina Ragus, an authorised representative of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-23-0.u18034	Mrs. Comic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, representatives of the Government, Mr. First Minister Cvetkovic, before I specify questions, which I hope we will hear the answers very soon, I must indeed express a great dissatisfaction that Mrs. Malovic, the minister of justice, is not present, because most of the questions raised by the SRS relate exclusively to her jurisdiction. Not to waste any more time, what the SRS Parliament Club is interested in is detailed information about the next event. So we came into possession of information that on 12 October 2008 a roundtable was held at 11pm in Bujanovac, which was organised by "Help" and "UNDP", which was attended by William Montgomery and Nebojsa Covic, among others. The topic of this round table was to establish stronger ties between Kosovo and the Presevo and Bujanovac regions, which would include strengthening economic ties, opening cultural and educational centres in Kosovo and vice versa. It also insisted on recognising diplomas issued by Kosovo institutions. If this is indeed true, and we know that the government and the competent institutions dealing with intelligence and counterintelligence have this information and we are looking for official detailed information on this and we believe that this is an outrageous scandal, and therefore also evidence of the Serbian government's relationship to KIM independence. So we expect detailed information on this as soon as possible, as well as, of course, information on what the Serbian government will do on this matter. The next question we want to address to the first minister, since the other government representatives are not there, say Mr. Interior Minister, is the status of private security in the territory of the Serbian state. We know that within Strakon Security, a number of actions are held by Mr. William Montgomery and his wife, Lind Montgomery. It's about 60,000 people who are employed within these private companies. There's about 40,000 people under arms somewhere. You will agree that this is a serious number of people under arms who are not within the internal affairs system. We expect an answer to this knowledge, but an official response from the Serbian government. We also expect an answer to the question of how it is possible for the private security system not to be within the internal affairs system and that the MUP does not oversee the work of these people. What is also extremely significant, as regards the meeting my colleague Milorad Buha had yesterday, and that is the third question for the government's representatives present. So he received a delegation from the First Five-year-olds. It is 600 workers from Triestenik who protested in front of the government and the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development over a harmful contract concluded between the Privatisation Agency and the Ukrainian firm from Lavova. The main problems were in the provisions of contracts that do not guarantee workers the exercise of labour rights and maintenance of production and basic activity. They told my colleagues Buhi that no one really heard, and no one received them from those of whom they requested admission to talk, which we also consider a scandal a couple of excellencies. It's 600 people who are denied certain rights. They demand the termination of the privatisation contract, and we ask for detailed information on the privatisation of the First Petolet and to review all provisions of this disputed contract concerning the achievement of labour relations, so 600 workers from Triestenik. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-23-0.u18035	The word is by MP Konstantin Arsenovic, the authorised representative of the PUPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-23-0.u18036	Madam President, Mr. Prime Minister, I have a question for the government, and it's about 65 families of military pensioners. Namely, who is in charge, and when will the problem be solved: 65 families of military pensioners who have lost their pensions because Montenegro has removed them from its records? As far as I know, it should be in the power of the defence minister, however, according to some information I have, there is a uncertainty as to who is in charge of solving this problem. It's about families that haven't been in retirement for almost two years and are on the verge of life's existence. These are almost the only sources of income, and there have been pensioners living in Serbia since 1990, and otherwise it is unclear why they were transferred to the Pension Fund of the Republic of Montenegro. It's a serious matter, and I think it's time that after two years, this problem is finally solved and that these families are allowed to live, to realize the rights they have earned by their work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-23-0.u18037	Do any of the other presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups appear, wanting to exercise their right under Article 235? Yeah. ) The word is wanted by Aleksandra Jankovic. That would be another call.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-23-0.u18038	Oh, my God, I got my word! It wasn't a call, it was a call for a minute of silence, and now this is a call. On behalf of the NS parliamentary group, I will elaborate a little on the issue that was raised on Tuesday (April 21st) by the deputy head of the NS parliamentary group Miroslav Markicevic, and today also Mr. Shormaz. The issue concerns this fantastic action by Serbia's defence minister. New Serbia demands on behalf of the authentic Serbian and Orthodox public, whose representatives we are, that not only the Prime Minister, but also the president of Serbia and the president of the National Assembly of Serbia answer the following questions: 1. When and what decision in Serbia has the parliamentary democracy and military junta regime been abolished, headed by the military minister? 2. Do our troops at maneuvers in Georgia confirm that, against the resolution of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, we have become members of NATO? 3. Does our soldiers in Georgia, along with other NATO forces, become the Praetorian Guard of the dictator Sakashvili to intimidate the Georgian opposition? 4. Who will be responsible for endangering the lives and health of our soldiers in the event of armed conflicts in Georgia? Regardless of the answers we will receive from the Serbian institutions to these issues, the NS wants to remind our public of all the shame and consequences that such a servile decision by the minister of military will cause, first of our relations with Russia and its support for the Serbian fight for the defence of KIM, secondly, the fact that Serbia is turning into a "banan republic" in which NATO ambassadors determine our foreign and internal policy, thirdly, the fact that NATO ambassadors have supported the Ministers of War in Latin America in a similar way for decades in this way to bring down the legitimacy of democratic institutions, and that this has left the consequences in those countries a broken economy, the corrupt state and mass graves of political opponents, to the fact that even the Nazis have failed to force Nedic to send Serb soldiers against Russia, and that the current minister showed a higher degree of co-operation towards NATO than has brought Serbia's troops together. Of course, we would also like to warn of the fact that preparations for Serbia's entry into NATO continue at the moment of the ten-year anniversary of NATO's bombing despite opposition from the assembly and the majority of the people of Serbia. New Serbia also sees support, in the end, for all the protests against this disgrace of Serbia's honour and will launch an initiative to replace the defence minister in the government of the Republic of Serbia who has shamed Serbia more than anyone in the modern era.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-23-0.u18039	Whether any of the other authorised representatives or presidents of the parliamentary groups are reporting to exercise their right under Article 235. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly? No, I don't. I would like to call once again on the MPs and MPs to file their applications for the next special session. This concludes the course of the session in which we applied Article 235. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and the right of the President or the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups to, once, within five minutes, request an explanation or request a notification. Before we move to a special session, I would like to invite ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament to call on the National Assembly to mark a moment of silence on April 22nd, the day of the NATO bombing of the RTS building by citizens and citizens of Serbia. A minute of silence. ) We continue the session, and I remind the MPs that the right to speak during the special session and to ask parliamentary questions are primarily representatives of parliamentary groups who are proposing topical issues, and then the other parliamentary groups, from at least one of the largest, alternately, with the right to speak after proposing special topical topics, the MP Vladan Batic, who does not belong to any parliamentary group. I give my word to MP Tomislav Nikolic, the president of the Progressive Serbia parliamentary group, who is proposing the current topic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-23-0.u18040	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Progressive Group of Serbia was created to finally have normal Serbia once, Serbia's people who wish it well or at least better than it was, and to become finally a people who meet danger, unite, and not divide, do not argue. And therefore, whenever you want to set us up with a trap or act as if it were all yours, for you, for your children, for your servants, and that there is no other part of Serbia, who may think differently or think that it would be better than you, we have to point that out to you. And that's why we consider this session a transparent trap of the ossion of power. A month ago, we asked you to point out what measures you are agreeing, what measures you have already agreed, what Serbia is waiting for on your way out of the crisis, and you waited a month to schedule a budget rebalancing session, for that session to begin tomorrow, and you today are not answering our questions about the measures you will take to get out of the economic crisis. Shame on you. You don't deserve any serious and normal representatives of the people to talk to you about anything. This is a toy for you. For you, for your children, for your servants, as Andric would say, you will always have. You don't worry about how many people are going to be out of work, or how hungry people are going to be, you're worried about how to fool people, how to show on TV the better we're in, the better the measures you're taking, the better your policy. You've embezzled in bribery, corruption and crime. Every day we find out about one of you more and more recent data. Your ministers are directly involved in the judiciary. You stop the bankruptcy proceedings by letter to the judges who conduct bankruptcy proceedings because they are your companies. You've decided to be masters of life and death. We have nothing to ask you today. Tomorrow's a budget rebalance debate. Get ready for our questions tomorrow. First, today we would give you a chance to prepare yourself even better, to lie to us even better, to show us a virtual reality even more beautiful than it is. Play your games, gentlemen of the Ministers and you ladies and gentlemen of the ruling majority who allow all of this, counting on this mandate to be majority. It's not. And it's much shorter than you think, it's much shorter than normal and ordinary, and let's see that mandate cut short by agreement, so as not to cut it short by citizens on the streets of Serbia. (President: three minutes. ) Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-23-0.u18041	I give my word to Parliamentarian Marina Ragush, representatives of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-23-0.u18042	Mrs. Komic, ladies and gentlemen, once again I express a terrible disappointment that we are talking about this topic today in the presence of only one SRS MP. 52 MPs from this regular session are remote. The topic is to assess the legality of the disbanding of the Zemun City Municipality Assembly and the education of the temporary body of the city municipality of Zemun. The terrible legal precedents have been made and, frankly, at this point I have a problem, I really don't see who can answer my questions that we have prepared for this regular session. Mr. Markovic is not in the O.R. right now. Ms. Malovic, as minister, justice is not there. I doubt that the prime minister could give me an adequate answer to everything that is interested in the citizens of Zemun, all those citizens who voted in favour of the SRS, and in the first place the entire Serbian public, who, due to a brutal campaign conducted over the SRS, was completely disinformed in terms of what the background of the introduction of temporary measures into the city municipality of Zemun is. Honestly, I don't know how this is gonna work. Maybe this is a question, Mrs. Comic, for you. If we've come up with this as an interactive activity between us and the government, I'm really in trouble because I don't have a Justice Minister present here. If I ask a question about the constitutionality assessment made by the Justice Minister, how am I going to get an answer to that? It may be necessary to schedule a phone session of parliament to discuss this topic, but I think it is totally unacceptable to talk about such an important topic in the presence of only one MP, and that the resolution minister, to whom most of the issue is concerned, is absolutely not present. Who was wrong here? Is the ruling majority or Mrs Malovic? I would really like to know what the reason for not having this session is, because I assume you informed Mrs. Malovic in time. What is the first question is to give us a precise answer – was it notified in time, so she ignored the presence at this session? What is the reason for not attending Parliament's session? We expect answers to questions that are right in her jurisdiction. How do you think we're still discussing this issue? This is an inadmissible picture, which should be recorded in front of the Serbian public, which gives us the answer that the whole process of introducing temporary measures into the municipality of Zemun is totally illegal, just because this session is not attended by the minister of justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-23-0.u18043	Does the president of the PUPS parliamentary group want the word? No, I don't. ) Does the word want a representative of the Group of Minorities? No, I don't. ) Does the word wish for Parliament MP Aleksandra Jankovic, representative of the NS Group? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-23-0.u18044	I want to ask a question, agreeing with the conclusion of Mr Tomislav Nikolic and many colleagues here that this session is completely uninjured. Tomorrow we have a session that will be dedicated to very important economic issues, and it would really be completely inappropriate to ask these questions today, as if we were actually expected to "shoot" some of our arguments, drain them and thump some of our blades, so tomorrow there won't be any need to ask the same questions. However, materials and ammunition in that sense are both us and how we have it. In addition, Mrs Ragush very well noted that the issue of Zemun cannot be debated without the presence of radicals, who have raised the issue. What's the question for today? In January 2009, the government concluded an agreement with the IMF, according to it itself -- preventively, for 400m euros. The sum was not used until March 2009, and Serbia paid interest. Is that true and why? Of course, in March, it additionally owed 3 billion euros although it did not use any of the previous 400m euros. In 2009, four and a half billion euros of debt, taken from foreign banks by businesses and banks from Serbia, is due. It is a figure that exceeds 50% of the total expenditure in Serbia's 2009 budget. The National Bank of Serbia, according to data provided to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, on 24 February 2009, found that 57,000 economic operators were in the blockade. They have 152,000 employees, and the amount of the blockade is 2.3 billion euros, according to the NBS course of 7 April 2009. The IMF demands that the Serbian budget deficit be around 967m euros or below 3% of Serbia's GDP. IMF officials say Albert Jaeger in "The Voice of America" that Serbia's loan will also be used to pay off foreign debt from 2009 and 2010. We need the government and economic experts to explain why the IMF is asking Serbia to keep its deficit below 3% of GDP. In the United States, which is the largest IMF shareholder, with the right to veto, the planned 2010 budget deficit will be the largest in history and will be around 13% of GDP. But France, Spain, Ireland, the UK also have a deficit of over 3% of GDP. How they are interpreted by the European Commission until 2012 and 2013 (President: Three minutes). ) to bring deficits to the limit below 3% of gross domestic product? What are the reasons why Serbia is asked to keep its deficit below 3% of gross domestic product? It's just one question. You counted on me and that time that was directed as an objection in this way to call a session, but never mind, we have time and tomorrow, we'll ask these questions again.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-23-0.u18045	People's MPs, the only time you can count on, which is at your disposal, is the time set by the members of the Rules of Procedure to be arranged during today's session. Time is available to every MP for three minutes. The way you're going to use your three minutes is your sovereign right. The obligation of the chairman is to remind each MP, at the time of the end of three minutes, that he has used or used the time available. Does the LDP Group's representative want the word? No, I don't. ) Does the word of the president or representative of the SPS parliamentary group want? No, I don't. ) The word is from MP Zoran Nikolic, authorised representative of the DSS-Vojislav Kostunica parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-23-0.u18046	Good afternoon, everyone. I have a very short and precise question for the Prime Minister, and I expect a precise answer immediately after the question is asked, which session of the government has adopted a platform for negotiations with the IMF on a three-billion-euro credit arrangement? I thank you and expect an answer right away.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-23-0.u18047	Does the G17 plus MP want the word? No, I don't. ) Does the word want a representative of the ZES parliamentary group? No, I don't. ) National MPs who you are asking me to ask the Prime Minister, I would like to refer you to the members of the Rules of Procedure which regulates the course of the session. The Prime Minister and members of the government have been informed that they can ask for a word whenever they want, and I am obliged to ask the MPs, in advance, if they want a word. When and at any point the Prime Minister or ministers will come forward, it's up to them to decide. They've got five minutes and they'll get a word as soon as they ask. We're going to work on application for word. National MP Jorvanka Tabakovic is the first to be reported. He doesn't want a word. National MP Zlata Djeric. You want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-23-0.u18048	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Representatives of the Government, Your Honor, Mr. Prime Minister, I'm sorry that it's always such a chamber atmosphere when the government is hosting this high house and we're always literally impossible to ask questions, so we get, when we get, very rarely, answers that we're not satisfied with. I have to ask again the question of the Minister of Agriculture, who is very skillfully bypassing us, and he knows that the most powerful questions are always addressed to him, regarding the question I asked last time when I had the opportunity, on which, however, he provided me with the answer, so I realized from the answer that he had no valid information, that we in the West Coast, or in Sombor municipality, had more concrete information. It wouldn't be worse if he got to know them, considering he gave me information in response that wasn't correct. I'm going to ask the question again about renting land, 10,000 ha in Sombor, the Sombor Athar. It is a country owned by the former state-owned company "The Border Man" in Gakov and the country in Shantic. As the minister said Mile Jerkovic had never rented a country in Sombor, nor "Višnjaprodukt", and in the meantime, the Privatisation Agency broke the contract with Mr Jerkovic who did not rent the country, so I wonder how it could have happened. The country's "granicar" has magically moved on to using the company Azohem from Subotica, which has also made no payment on the basis of debt, but is mortgaged on some worthless facilities in Subotica. I don't know how much of this somber agriculture will benefit, how much the budget of the Republic of Serbia, the AP Vojvodina budget and the Sombor municipality budget will benefit, since Mr Mitrevski of the Ministry was and tried to arrange some extrajudicial alignment. So I'm interested in how it's possible that the minister still doesn't have the information that 4,500 ha of the country in Shantic is in the parloga. The second question is about "Etherna" in The Tower. I'm interested in the fate of privatising "Eterne" in The Tower, 114 employees who don't know their status, 1,200 small shareholders who have no information about the status of property within the company, and police, economic crime, claim that there are not enough inspectors to deal with it. Third question, very short. I received information from Serbs living in Kosovo. They are interested in the fate of negotiations that, according to them, were held yesterday between Mrs Rada Trajkovic and Radjel Nojkic, who came to Kosovo for the cars of the government, according to Serbs from Kosovo, and negotiated the implementation of the Martti Ahtisaari plan. They are concerned and are interested in what has actually been agreed, as their further future in Kosovo depends on it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-23-0.u18049	The word is sought by Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic. Please only press the key once to make the name appear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-23-0.u18050	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is always a pleasure when you invite us to give answers to questions because it is a two-way conversation and we also see which issues are important to the MPs, and we also give certain answers and clarify the ambiguities. As for these few questions, I'd like to try to answer the way we see it. In doing so, I intend to stick to the topic that is scheduled for this session, given that next Thursday we have a topic of general questions, where there may be questions outside the so-called question. current themes. The first issue on the subject was about the deficit of up to 3% in the budget, i.e. how other countries go to high deficits, the United States was mentioned with a 13% deficit, why we only go to 3%. At first, I want to say that it's important to understand that the deficit is not just a matter of allowing it to be made or not, but a deficit is something that needs to be financed. In a situation where the economic crisis arises, entering the deficit is a normal response to economic policy. This is also the reason why most Western countries are going to increase the deficits, because virtually through the height of that deficit increases the demand level on the market and thus seems 'anti-crisis'. However, the height of the deficit is in the function of an objective opportunity for you to finance the deficit. Theoretically speaking, if someone would allow you to open the deficit as much as you want, not allow it, but if you say - come on, I'm going to go to a huge deficit, the question from which source you would cover that deficit. In this context, developed Western countries, which have a lot of accumulated reserves from the previous period or have the possibility of additional debt, may allow themselves the luxury of going to a far larger deficit. The fact that we chose to keep our deficit up to 3% is not a mere selection of figures, but reflects the appropriate possibilities of borrowing, or the need to secure those funds. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to mention a few digits, so we understand what this is all about. If you have a 3% deficit, which is about 900m euros, then with that 3% deficit, you have to finance that money this year, find them from some available sources, but also provide additional funds to cover the payments of those loans you used during the earlier period, which came in this current year, which is about 500m euros in concrete and rounded. This means that we are obliged to provide external financing of around 1.4 billion euros from various available sources, where that own source is privatisation, but the rest are practically borrowings. Given all of that, the 3% deficit is something we see as a number that we can provide. Someone will look at the budget and conclude that there's a deficit of less than 90 billion, about 70 and something. But we're looking at two other components. One component is so-called. The consolidated state sector, where you have an additional deficit on Vojvodina, which had to be added to this deficit (there is a deficit of about 6.5 billion) and will, in addition, have additional funding in terms of loans, and above all I mean infrastructure, i.e. Corridor 10.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-23-0.u18051	Does the word MP Milan Lapcevic, as reported, want for the last question? He's not in the O.R. The MP last reported for asking questions on a special subject is Milos Radulovic. He's not in the O.R. Does anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP Marina Ragush, an authorised representative of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-23-0.u18052	Mrs. Comic, ladies and gentlemen, I'm really embarrassed, but I have to say to the government and first minister, you've been here for nothing. What we won't hear now, and as for the legality of the disbanding of the Assembly of the City of Zemun and the education of the temporary body of the city of Zemun, we won't hear because the minister of justice is not present, because Mr. Markovic has disappeared and indeed remains only a trace of his existence at that table. He's gone. I don't know if Mr. Djelic could answer, most likely, yes, but he's not in charge and he's not in charge of talking on this subject. I am fully convinced that Mrs Dragutinovic would give a qualified opinion in a particular section, but she is still not the one who speaks on this subject. The First Minister is sticking to the subject, so I don't know who I'm talking to right now. And that's a really big problem for me. So, we wanted to show the Serbian public that there was indeed a complete crackdown on the entire corpus of law, the legality in the procedure when it came to the introduction of temporary measures in the municipality of Zemun, that there were terrible interventions to the decision-making process. We have evidence for that. We expected the minister of justice to participate in this debate. We also have evidence that the city administration has taken over on itself, but Mr Markovic has deliberately avoided answering that question, to assess the constitutionality of making certain decisions. We're also not going to hear the answer to this question. But what have we heard and what have we learned? That, in fact, the unlawfully introduced situation in the municipality of Zemun is a clear message of this part of the session. So, everything about legal regulations has been violated. The lack of a competent minister to answer these specific questions, to comment on concrete evidence, concrete legal acts, to give a final concrete answer, is indeed a detailed answer for all. So, the citizens of Serbia should understand at this point what kind of state we live in, that Zemun is disbanded by political decision and political will, that there really is a serious SRS breaking project behind this, and that the minister in charge is not here to answer this question, he is testifying to everything. I'm talking about Mrs. Malovic. Mr. Markovic can, of course, stay, since he is also a proponent of the Law on Political Parties, within which we will also take part. But in the first place, it is totally inadmissible that the MPs of the SRS are not here and that they are talking about this topic. I'm sorry, I respect the procedure, I follow the rules. In solidarity with my colleagues, in protest that Mrs Malovic is not there, solidarity with other members of the opposition, and I am leaving this part of the session.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-23-0.u18053	National MP Marina Ragush essentially asked a question concerning the procedure, which is the presence of MPs of members of the SRS parliamentary group. On 31 March, the SRS parliamentary group submitted a request to hold a special session with the topic of disbanding SO Zemun and the National Assembly is obliged to hold a special session with the topic within 30 days. It is at the will of the parliamentary group to withdraw the proposal at which time it wishes, but one session with the current topic, based on the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, must be held once a month. If no parliamentary group has any demands for the current topic, then I think we have a much bigger problem than anyone wants, and who doesn't want to attend the assembly session, which is legitimate and legal. At the beginning of this session, I read the names and last names of government members, including Minister Snezana Malovic, who justified her, with apologies, my absence from this session, as well as Minister Ivica Dacic and Vice-President Mladjan Dinkic. The word is sought and obtained by state administration minister and local self-government Milan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-23-0.u18054	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the issue of disbanding the Assembly of the City of Zemun has brought some attention to our public, however, this issue is far simpler than it may seem at this point. The ministry was addressed by the SRS committee group, Mr. Nemanja Sarovic, and we addressed Mr. Sarovic on 13 April 2009. I think it is best that I read that answer and, at least as far as the government is concerned, put an end to what is happening in the city of Belgrade, that is, the issue of the city municipality of Zemun. So, the letter is addressed to Mr Nemanja Sarovic: "The reason for your request and the subsequent emergency under this request that you seek to take the measures provided for in the provisions of the Law on Local Self-Government, concerning the decision of the Assembly of the City of Belgrade to disband the Assembly of the City of Zemun and the education of the temporary authority of this municipality, we inform you of the following: Consent to the members of 78 and 80. The Law on Local Self-Government, this ministry acted according to your performance and letter of 12 March 2009, requested a report from the Assembly of the City of Belgrade on a session of the Assembly held between February 11th and March 5th 2009, a record from the held session and all documents relating to the case. The Ministry has already informed you about the business as of 12 March 2009. On 10 April 2009, the City Assembly submitted the requested report and accompanying documentation. After seeing the material delivered, the ministry found that the City Assembly on 5 March 2009, calling for the provisions of the Law on the capital and the Statute of the City of Belgrade, decided on the disbanding of the Assembly of the City of Zemun and the education of the provisional body. According to the Constitutional Court's notice, issue of 190/02 was delivered to the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government, proceedings for the assessment of the constitutionality and legality of the Statute of the City of Belgrade and decisions on the disbanding of the Assembly of the City of Zemun and the education of the temporary body of the city's municipality of Zemun are already under way. In such a situation, the ministry considers that, before the Constitutional Court of Serbia's decision on the legality of the contested general acts in the procedure already in place, in accordance with the provisions of the Constitutional Court Act, there is no basis for taking other measures in terms of the provisions of the Law on Local Self-Government. In particular, we point out that the launch of proceedings before the Supreme Court of Serbia is due to an assessment of the legality, within the meaning of Article 83. The Law on Local Self-Government, justified only in a situation where the general act of the units of local self-government and its statutes is inconclusive. This remedy was entered into the Law on Local Self-Government because the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia in Article 167 did not provide for the jurisdiction of the Constitutional Court in this legal situation, and it was necessary by law to fill in the existing void. Otherwise, there are very rare situations in practice when it comes to the disagreement of the statutes and the general act of the units of local self-government. Most often, in addition to the statute of the General Act, the question of its compliance with the law is also raised, and thus, under the Constitution, such a case goes to the jurisdiction of the Constitutional Court. This is because of the provisions of article 195. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia has established a hierarchy of general legal acts, and from the content and order of the provisions of Article 3 and 4 of that article, it is clear that in this case, the issue of compliance of the general legal act of the Assembly of the City of Belgrade with the Statute of the City is consummated by the issue of compliance of the general legal act with the Law on Local Self-Government and the Law on the Capital. From the point of view of the unity of the legal order of the Republic of Serbia, it is certain that it would not be acceptable, although it would be legally possible, that the Supreme Court and the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia share the same general act by the Belgrade Assembly in different terms. As provided for in Article 171(1), the provisions of Article 171(1) shall apply. The constitution stipulates that everyone is obliged to respect and enforce the Constitutional Court's decision, this ministry, too, will in all cases act in accordance with the Constitution and the law, following the decision of the court, in the event of the disbandment of SO Zemun. "So the government and the ministry have no basis to interfere in any way with the current dispute concerning the disbanding of the Zemun City Assembly. This is in the jurisdiction of the Constitutional Court, the Constitutional Court is doing this, and according to what the Constitutional Court's decision will be, we will all behave.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-23-0.u18055	Since there are no speakers, or MPs who would like to ask a parliamentary question, on the lists declared for the word, I ask if anyone else wants a word, given that the course of the session with a special, current topic is regulated so that you can also make a request for a word from the place where you are going? No, I don't. ) Does the Prime Minister want the word or any of the representatives? Yeah. ) The word is made by Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-23-0.u18056	I wanted to, since I only took five minutes to answer one question, and there were two more behind it, let me say one more thing. One complex of issues is about issuing the country, privatising a concrete enterprise and negotiations in Kosovo that were held yesterday. In this regard, I would like to say that, by sticking to the topic of today's session, we can discuss these issues next Thursday, when there is an open topic for any issues, beyond the fundamental focus. The second question was - the platform for negotiations with the IMF. She was adopted by the government last week. The talks we had were already held on the previous platform, which was made for the previous agreement, and this last platform we only established our views. Otherwise, formally observed, as far as the IMF is concerned, we expect that, following the adoption of the IMF budget rebalancing, at its session on 11 May, a decision would be taken and only afterwards would the contract be signed. Meanwhile, material containing economic policy has been developed and will be made available to the public in the coming period, as I have heard that there have been demands on the subject as well. We'll ensure that after the definitive version is established. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-23-0.u18057	Anybody else answer for a word? Yeah. ) Finance Minister Diana Dragutinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-23-0.u18058	I wanted to answer a question about Montenegro's military pensioners. So, there is a problem with military pensioners from Montenegro and the problem, expressed in the number of military pensioners, is 70 pensioners. Addressing this problem is under way, and we hope that next month the problem will be resolved, and the problem is solved within a group composed of representatives of the three ministries: the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Labour. Maybe I should say another short sentence about the question about the size of the deficit. The size of the 3% deficit is not imposed by the IMF. It is the result of joint negotiations and the fact that we already have an extremely large public spending. Last year, it was 45% of the social product and as such represents the third largest public spending in this part of Europe. Countries that can afford 10% or 12% of GDP deficits are countries with a far smaller state. These are countries that have 33-34% public spending. So not only the possibility of funding, but also this great public spending has limited the deficit to 3%. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-23-0.u18059	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Since no one wants to ask a parliamentary question anymore, and before we finish the work, allow me to thank, on behalf of the National Assembly, the President and the members of the Government, or ministers, for respecting the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and for coming to the call, and for proposing parliamentary groups, in this case the Parliamentary Group Forwards Serbia and the MP groups of the SRS, who thanked for the request to schedule today's special session and to explain through questions and answers to the public of Serbia what it is that the National Assembly considers an actual topic. This concludes the work of a special session, that is, the Day for Answering MP questions on the topic of the topic. I thank you all for your participation. The work of the previous session, with discussion in particular on the draft law on political parties, continues today, on 23 April, at 13.00 hours. Thank you. (The session is closed at 11.20 p.m. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-23-0.u18060	THE FOURTH SESSION OF THE FIRST REGULAR SESSION OF THE 23rd April 2009 (15th day of work) (The session began at 13.05 p.m. The chairman of Gordana Komic, vice-president of the National Assembly. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-23-0.u18061	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Fourth Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that 108 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 85 MPs are present in the hall, that is, more than one third of the MPs are present, and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the following MPs have been prevented from attending the sittings: Jelena Travar-Miljević, Miroslav Petkovic, Vladan Batic and Zeljko Tomic. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 88(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Article 88(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, they are in conformity with Article 88(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, in addition to the representatives of the promoters, are invited to attend the sittings and: Jasmina Benmansur, Assistant Minister of State Administration and Local Self-Government, on the 19th, 20th and 21st agenda, Dejan Jovanovic, Nebojsa Ćirić and Vesna Arsic, State Secretary of the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, Jelena Popović, Assistant Minister of Economy and Regional Development, Nenad Ilic and Dejan Radulović, Advisors at the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, Vladislav Cvetkovic, Assistant to the Agency for Privatisation and Branka Radovic from the Privatisation Agency; on Points 22, 23rd and 25th agenda Mirjana Ćojbašić, Assistant Minister for the NIP, Edi Majstorović, Head of the cabinet of Minister for the NIP, Radmila Petković and Natas Sokolović from the Ministry of the Ministry of the Ministry of the Ministry of the Ministry of the Ministry of the Ministry of the Ministry of the NIP of the Ministry of the Republic and 27th and 27th and the Republic of Economy of Economy of Economy, Ministers, Ministers of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic. We move to the 18th point of the agenda – PROPOST OF ZAKONA O POLIČKIKSTRANS (individuals) You have received amendments submitted at the proposal of the law by the MPs: Miroslav Markić, Meho Omerović, Mićo Rogović, Veroljub Arsić, Momo Čolaković, Jelena Budimirović, Zlata Djerić, Aleksandra Ilic, Miletić Mihajlović, Slobodan Samaržić, Together Milica Radović and Zoran Šami, together Zoran Šamiović, together Zoran Šami, Milica Radović and Jovan Palalić, Vladan Živić, Gorjan Živić, Vesna Marić, Mirjanović, Mirko Mužanović, Živić Živović, Milovanovic, Milovan Ževinović, Milan Ževinović, Milan Ževinović, Radica Željić, Radica Žitić, Radica Žitić, Radić, Radić, Radić, Vlajan Žović, Radjan Žcić, Radjan Žiljić, Radić, Dragan Žović, Radović, Gorjan Žović, Gorjan Žović, Gorjan, Gorjavić, Gorjavić, Gor, Žović, Žović, Žović, Mražović, Žović. You have received a report from the Legislative Committee as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The title above Article 1 of the amendment, which, according to the Legislative Committee's assessment, is identical, was submitted by MPs Mirko Munjic and Srboljub Zivanovic. According to Article 143, paragraphs 5 and 6. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, if several MPs from the same parliamentary group submit amendments which are identical, will be deemed to be the same amendment submitted by several MPs. In that case, the right to state that amendment on behalf of the applicants shall have only one of the signed Members of Parliament for a period of up to two minutes. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Maric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Article 1 and Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Radovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 1st Amendment who, according to the assessment of the Legislative Committee, were submitted by MPs Nikola Žutić, Milorad Krstin, Gordana Paunović-Milosavljevic, Bojan Mladenov and Momir Markovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the 1st amendment, which, according to the Legislative Committee's assessment, was submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Ljubomir Kragovic, Jovan Damjanović, Dobrislav Prelic, Marina Ragus, Lidija Dimitrijevic, Jadranko Vukovic, Vladja Milojković, Ognje Mihajlović, Goran Mihajlović and Gordana Pop-Lazic. Does anyone want a word? The word has a folk emissary Marina Ragush.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-23-0.u18062	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before I move on to the interpretation of the amendments, I would just like to suggest that I will most likely use the time foreseen for the parliamentary group. So, I'll go over those two minutes. Thank you. Before I move on to the very text of the amendment to Article 1 of the proposed law, it is very important that I thank Mr Markovic, the resolution minister, who is present (I hope it will be during the whole debate in particular), because in the morning part of the session, he actually only repeated what I said before we split up, and there will probably be examples of how local self-government works, how the work of political states is treated and during the debates in particular. So I think that the Serbian public and citizens of Serbia, who are truly most precious to us, will be very clear on what the Serbian Radical Party wanted with this amendment to indicate if I read Article 1. Proposal for a law on political parties. The proposal envisioned Article 1 as follows: "This law regulates the establishment and legal position of political parties, registration and erasure of registers, termination of political parties and other issues relevant to the work of political parties. "The proposal of our amendment is for Article 1 to be amended and read: "This law regulates the way political parties are set up in the Republic of Serbia, the legal position of political parties, the registration and erasure of political parties in the relevant register run by the state body and other issues important for the performance of political parties. In interpreting and applying the provisions of this law, this must be done in favour of improving the value of democratic society in order to democratically shape the will of citizens. "We felt that this Article 1 must be precise and clear, and in the explanation we gave a few sentences that should explain the purpose of this amendment. Because of the citizens of Serbia, and yet as part of the campaign against the SRS in terms of submitting a large number of amendments, we have indeed tried to respond to every proposed legislative solution and I intend to read the explanation of this amendment. So: "Amendment is being made to that member of the bill, all with the aim of bringing the bill into line with Articles 5, 55 and 102. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. In addition to those members and other provisions, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia states that the provisions of the proposed law maximumly preserve freedom and the right of citizens to political association and create conditions that political parties can fulfil the obligation to democratically shape the political will of citizens. To achieve this, mechanisms must be found to further prevent political persecution, steal mandates, play the electoral will of citizens and stop any attempt to establish totalitarianism. The proposed amendment aims to stop any opposition to democracy and the freedom of citizens. "This is, of course, the SRS Parliament Club and how important, if not the most significant, because it is clear that we have all fought together in time to establish democratic principles, respect for democratic procedures, parliamentary democracy and the smooth development of political parties, or multilaterals in Serbia. In addition, the example of our party's president, in terms of slavery under the totalitarian system, speaks sufficiently of the contribution that the Serbian Radical Party has made to establish parliamentary democracy. Since I remember that Mr. Minister said that the purpose of this law is to introduce order into political life in Serbia, we, and that is our political confidence, express our suspicion that this law will indeed lead to order because there is no order because there is no political will to respect what are the basic principles of democracy. You won't mind, I suppose, but what's our starting point, where we're all going and where we're all going back and stopping there, that's, of course, the Constitution of the Serbian State. It may even be pointless for some time to talk about the principles that the Constitution requires, especially in a situation where there is actually an attack on the constitutional order of the Serbian state, and thus derivating certain constitutional principles, specifically such as territorial integrity and the implementation of sovereignty in the part of Kosovo and Metohija. In this connection, it is certainly a very important answer to the question whether the bill will be implemented in the part of Kosovo and Metohija. Then very likely, depending on your answer, we would also get an answer to the question whether the state of Serbia exists in that part or whether we are under occupation, and then this picture of parliament and everything that happens in the context of parliamentary life on the political scene of Serbia is absolutely clear, then definitely no one needs parliamentary democracy in Serbia. But we will try, I hope, successfully, to explain to Serbian citizens our political action, from where the protest of the Serbian Radical Party in parliament, whether a political party's protest is justified, in terms of repression, and what it really is, is a concrete political climate in the state of Serbia in 2009. However, what is also significant, given that the reasons for the amendments we have submitted certainly strengthen the just mentioned members of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, does not really mean anything to the citizens if we say they are members of 5, 55 and 102, but I think it is very valuable for further discussion that these members are quoted. So in the section entitled Political Party Article 5. Serbia's constitution says "The role of political parties in the democratic formation of the political will of citizens is guaranteed and recognised. The establishment of political parties is free. Political parties are not allowed to operate, aimed at violently destroying constitutional order, violating guaranteed human or minority rights or causing racial, national or religious hatred. Political parties cannot exercise direct authority or subjugate it to themselves. "We would be really pleased, Mr. Minister, to hear the relationship between the ministry's resolution, namely the Government of Serbia, in terms of Article 5, which says that the illegal functioning of political parties that are aimed at violently destroying the constitutional order, what treatment the political parties operating in Kosovo and Metohija have, who directly committed their activities to the violent collapse of the constitutional order of the Serbian state and how your resorient ministry and the Serbian Government will respond, in terms of Article 5, Article 3. If there is no official response, then we don't need to talk about the highest legislative act. We really shouldn't play democracy then, because it's obvious that we're really just playing democracy here. Article 55, which we have also called for in the light of this amendment, speaks of freedom of association and it is very important to quote because our debate will continue to go that way. So the first point is said: "The freedom of political, trade union and every other association is guaranteed and the right to remain outside each association. Associations shall be established without prior authorisation, subject to registration in a register run by a state body in accordance with the law. Secret and paramilitary associations are forbidden. The Constitutional Court may prohibit only that association whose activities are aimed at violent destruction of the constitutional order, violation of guaranteed human or minority rights or at causing racial, national and religious hatred. Judges of the Constitutional Court, judges, public prosecutors, Protector of citizens, members of the police, members of the military cannot be members of political parties. "It is very important, within the meaning of Article 55(4), that, let's say, we have the knowledge whether the state of Serbia has sent a request to the Constitutional Court, or any institution owned to do so, in the sense of the ban on the functioning of the association that is committing violent destruction of constitutional order. Indeed, a significant number of associations in Kosovo and Metohija that destroy the constitutional order of the Serbian state is that they have parallel institutions that absolutely do not recognise the Constitution of the Serbian state. Also, what is important, and especially for further discussion in particular, is the functioning and purpose of the existence of political parties, the electoral system, are actually parliamentary mandates. We will also be very happy if we have the opportunity to hear the opinion of the resolute minister regarding the end of the electoral will, so that he tells us, for example, how the state will react further in terms of introducing order into political life and creating a normal and constructive political atmosphere in which political parties, regardless of their political beliefs, will be able to participate in political life uninterruptedly and evenly. That's not a fact for now, but we'll deal with it later. Another very significant member of the Constitution that we have called upon in this explanation is Article 102. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which speaks of the position of MPs. Paragraph 1 states that the mandate of the MP begins to run on the day of confirming the mandate in the National Assembly and lasts four years, i.e. until the end of the mandate of the MPs of the National Assembly. The MP is free to, under the conditions of a certain law, irrevocably put his mandate at his disposal to a political party whose proposal he was elected MP. "The MP cannot be an MP in the assembly of the autonomous province, nor a official in the authorities of the executive authority and of the judiciary, nor can he perform other functions, tasks and duties that the law found to be a conflict of interest. The election, termination of the mandate and the position of MPs shall be governed by law. "We would also like to hear the answer of the minister who will be present in the debate in particular how he wants to convince the SRS MP group, which won the largest number of opposition mandates on 11 May 2008. So she went on her own as a political party in the parliamentary elections, the number of seats was 78, the list voted for was the SRS list -- Dr Vojislav Seselj. A few months later, the list ran out of 21 seats. It is also important to say that the public in Serbia would be fully informed about the background of political climate violations, which is also the case when we are discussing the draft law on political parties, we as a parliamentary party at the end of last year for the adoption of the budget, given that there was little need to move on to temporary financing, and this is the adoption of the budget and the disabling of the transition to temporary financing. We have estimated that this is really very important for the state of Serbia, for the citizens of the Serbian state and for the creation of a political climate. What was the subject of the agreement – and this is not the subject of any secret agreements, all political parties in order to create a good political atmosphere are agreeing, each sitting seems exactly as agreed upon – is the return of the kidnapped mandates of the SRS, the replacement of the chairman of the Administrative Committee and the withdrawal of the illegal introduction of provisional measures in the municipality of Zemun. We have received assurances from Mr Dusan Petrovic that this agreement will be respected and that we are part of the agreement, and this Serbian public must know, fulfill, and that is nothing controversial. It was all after that; instead of all that was the subject of the deal, Serbian Radical Foreigners were not returned to their mandates. As for the three resignations we had made available, handed them over to the Administrative Committee, one resignation was controversial because they were wrong data. The person who did this knew she was doing exactly what she did and they're not the subject of this debate these people are not going to be. The people I address are members of the biggest party in the ruling coalition, because here the government was in the exam and, Mr. Minister, you did not pass that exam. So if the two resignations were not controversial, there was no reason not to return to the Serbian Radical Party's mandates, and other mandates would be decided before some other institutions. I have no intention of in any way affecting the decision-making process itself, and I don't want to talk about it here and now. What was one of the, conditionally speaking, the subject of the negotiations was also the replacement of the chairman of the Administrative Committee, which took place. However, instead of the proposed solution, you have appointed Mr Konstantinovic from your party as the chairman of the Committee. So much for respecting the gentleman's agreement and agreement. Finally, we've reached Zemun. I'm in the afternoon, but you weren't in the O.R.... To be honest, you're not even your own to answer the question I wanted to ask, but you were denied what was the point of the story, only assuming that Mrs Malovic was present as justice minister. So, in a completely illegal way, temporary measures have been imposed. It concerns, of course, the mandate of the board and the subject on the agenda. You have rightly stated that you are not yourself to decide and take any steps, since this issue lies before the Constitutional Court of Serbia. It's completely true and I can only support it. However, what I may have expected to hear is that the city administration gave itself the jurisdiction of the Constitutional Court of Serbia and assessed the legality of the adoption of legal acts. That's what the debate was supposed to be about in the afternoon, but, of course, it's not about you. I'm glad you read the act that I have, too, which speaks of your ministry being unable to act until it has been decided by the Constitutional Court. It's really totally true, and this time, political correctness works, I confirm. However, on the other hand, it is a complete misunderstanding how you think that after what I just said we can go back to the beginning, because all of this caused a reaction from the Serbian Radical Party. We've been kidnapped. We're in a media blockade situation. We are fully convinced that we have come under pressure from the heads of diplomatic missions, Mr. Manter and Mr. Wardsworth, who also got involved in the political scene by attacking us. We have come into a situation to introduce temporary measures with a complete media spectacle, the savagery that was during the procedure of assigning and withdrawing mandates, because at one point the six committee members were also taken from us, in fact, by savageness and flight into the political scene, is our belief, certain tycoons and certain centres of power, but we'll talk about it a little later. So, how do you think after all this, and we held hands last year for the adoption of the budget and the budget was adopted by us respecting our part of the deal, going back to the beginning, and we are confident that every next time, whether it's a regular session, about a board meeting, about anything that matters to the citizens of Serbia who voted, we will trust us to arrange a life that should be worth a man's worth... How do you think we can get back to the beginning and trust you on the word? I hope you're not personally experiencing this. You and I don't know each other personally, nor would it occur to me to bring this debate down to a personal level, simply, it's not my style. This is about principle. You have a principle that is completely derivated, the electoral will that was reflected in the May elections in 2008 and you have a completely artificial atmosphere in this House. You have a club that most often also officials call the Serbian Progressive Party, which did not participate in the elections, thus confirming the end of the electoral will, and we now need to talk about the need to build a political climate, to reach an agreement, we are all calling for that, this should be normal, the Constitution obliges us to respect what people rightly voted on, not wanting this picture of parliament and not wanting this picture of Serbia. But how do you expect it? By putting us from the SRS in the boxing ring, we should play against the category that is much above us, you tied our hands and legs, you put a blindfold on our eyes, the judge works for you, and we should say "thank you," and no problem, and we only brought all these problems down to three questions, it simply wasn't solved by someone deciding not to respect the agreement. I can't say that Mr. Petrovic is guilty, I don't know, and I don't want to think that way, but someone decided not to honor that deal. From there everything went and went in a completely unacceptable direction for all of us. The end of the process was the layout of the place here, which is why my colleagues are away from the session. These were all expected reactions by Serbian radicals. It went to these reactions, it's our belief, to keep us away from such important issues, from discussing such important topics. In doing so, the regime in Serbia controls the media and has the right and opportunity to speak about us, and we do not have the right and opportunity to answer that. So it's just amazing that today we're saying that by implementing this law, we're going to return normal political life to Serbia. Unfortunately, Mr. Minister, I don't believe that, the SRS doesn't believe that. That doesn't mean we won't respect the majority's decision, that we won't respect what institutions are. Here's what we've done: Mr. Nemanja Sarovic has sent you a submission that has its contributions, sent it to the competent institution, we've sent interventions to the Serbian Government, we've sent a submission to the Constitutional Court of Serbia. That's what we can do. We gave up thinking that in this financial crisis and the situation, when the people have nothing to eat, the question is survival next, we are making some kind of political action that could disrupt anyone's existence, and here's what's going on - every day we are left without any rights. It's like we didn't go to those May elections. To get you back to the beginning, Mr Petrovic's consent to the agreement gave his hand to the Serbian radicals and said that the conditions would be met in order to vote the budget, which means that we are right, because if Mr Petrovic then said he would meet our requirements (which are the return of the mandate, the Administrative Committee, the failure to introduce temporary measures into the municipality of Zemun), that means that we are right, because otherwise Mr Petrovic would promise something contrary to the law. That's what we expect to hear on behalf of the 1,220,000 votes we won in the May elections. If you think this debate is going to turn into a mutual bickering, as you say, between the former and the current radicals, immediately give up that finding, because it won't. We're not the subject of advances. To us is the subject of power, because the government has a position and has all the levers of power to regulate life. You have the majority and we, as MPs of the opposition, can only act this way. I would really like to hear from you the answers to the questions, and that's why I'm taking this opportunity, it's about the subject, I'm not coming out of the context, because maybe in some final sum, it would be the beginning of thinking that maybe there's a chance that normal political life really happens in the state of Serbia. I think it's all in our best interests. To be honest, I have no doubt that the people who sit here, most people, have only one goal, and that's the life of the man of all those who voted for us, regardless of the diversity of the roads to that end. I honestly believe that there are a few people, a maniac in everyone's ranks; there is no greater or smaller patriot, no one is immune to such interferences and such presses, from dirty capital and beyond. Our example was very transparent. What we hear today, what is being written today, and what the people in Serbia hear will be a guideline for future political life in Serbia. It will be the response of the SRS whether we are on the wrong track when we think that someone is afraid to return Dr. Seselj to Serbia because he is aware that someone is aiming to marginalise the SRS. Or they will convince us that we are thinking wrongly and that someone really wants to finally think about the interests of Serbian citizens and to carry out what is Serbian interest when we talk about political organisation. Now it's your turn to convince us of your answers, because yet you represent a resistor that has the power to say something like that, and I have no problem saying – I'm sorry, I was wrong, my belief was completely wrong, and all that's happened so far is not valid, we're going to normalize the relationship now. In the Serbian Radical Party, we want to start a debate like this in front of the public that would give rise to convictions and overlaps and marginalise all political conflicts, which are huge, political scenes that do not remember such conflicts. This is what will be the point of today's presentation on certain amendments in the debate in particular in the draft law on political parties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-23-0.u18063	Before we move to the debate on the next amendment, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am notifying the National Assembly on the basis of Article 85(5). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, that today we will work after 1800 hours, will continue to discuss the agenda that will at that time be the subject of our discussion. State Administration and Local Self-Government Minister Milan Markovic reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-23-0.u18064	I'm reporting to give a little intro exposure and mention one technical thing. On nine members of the law, the government accepted amendments to Articles 3, 8, 9, 16, 17, 18, 41 and 45, total nine. All these previous eight years, when I was present in the Assembly, it was done like this – when the same amendment appeared it was fair and correct (so we thought when we were opposition) that the Government, if it accepts one of these amendments, indicated the one that was first released into the procedure. On the other hand, it really turns out that the exact amendment of those who have submitted the amendment is then rejected. In co-operation with the Legislative Secretariat... I am saying this above all because I was in my first term, since I see that not everyone understood it, was one of those who objected to the then government of Vojislav Kostunica because of this inaccuracy to choose an amendment and that amendment of the ruling coalition, which the opposition had equally submitted before them. That's how it was. I felt it was correct not to make such discrimination, but to accept the first to arrive and so we worked in the Republic Secretariat for legislation. However, I just spoke with several MPs who have expressed disdain about it. I can say that in the future, at least in the government... I'll ask for different reports on the amendments. When we get to Articles 8 and 9, where the same amendments are found, I'm going to read all the amendment applicants so the public can understand that we've actually accepted the amendments of all these people. By chance, one was seduced before the other, so the formally-technical amendment was seduced as one to be accepted, but I will say that I accept others, too, that they were practically accepted. I'm saying, I'm sorry about this, but that's how it's been for the last eight years. I did not know that the Assembly is now insisting on a different practice, and I therefore give an apology to those whose amendments are listed as being rejected, and they are essentially accepted, but we have done it in a completely different way so far.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-23-0.u18065	The word has the People's MP Tomislav Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-23-0.u18066	I accept this argument by Mr. Minister, although I find it difficult to understand that of the two identical amendments one can be accepted and the other rejected. If you wrote that it wasn't the subject of consideration because it was already accepted identical, I would accept. If you wrote that the same is already accepted, I'd accept that, too. But to write that it only refuses because the same is accepted, it really does not follow me any legal or logic of any other kind. If you compare yourself to earlier times, you did not exactly state what the government you call the government of Vojislav Kostunica was doing, and you yourself took part as a party once in the government. So, when there is a good amendment to someone from the opposition, you have the right to have someone from the ruling majority submit an amendment to the same content or with only one word that has been changed, so that you accept that amendment "your own man" so that you don't come into the situation to accept the opposition amendments. Give up this practice. Otherwise, if the opposition puts us as -- we accepted the amendment that first arrived, the rest of us won't be angry. Nowhere in history is recorded whose amendment was accepted, if we know that we had the same wish ourselves, it doesn't matter whether the DSS, NS, SRS amendment is accepted. We don't overwrite each other, because we're getting these amendments very late printed, and we're handing them over at the last minute because you don't leave us too much time and because we want to hide from you what we're changing, so that you're at least a little bit unprepared for the sessions you're preparing. I also wanted to talk a little bit about what I heard in the presentation of the previous MP and to note that from some force, rudeness, pride went to some repentance and I am very glad that I got a satisfaction for many of my actions in life and for many of my statements given at a time when haughtiness was on stage, for example, when I said that radicals and Democrats co-operated on the adoption of the budget and that some relations to me should be extended to other radicals who talk to Democrats. Obviously, there's a different policy of the SRS on stage right now. If they wanted to listen to me, so they could act, maybe we wouldn't have parted. They listened to him who ordered haughtiness, fighting. It is not true that the Assembly eliminated radicals from the O.R., they themselves did it harshly in violation of the Rules of Procedure, and they knew what sanctions they were. It is not true that you, my dear lady, are the real representative of the Serbian Radical Party, just trying to look like a forwarder. There's a lot of acting, and there's what's coming out of you. Indeed you do not belong to that mile that was thrown out of the session, but I am surprised that they will not return to the meeting of those who belong to it. It's not true that I stole anything after the election. I just took my term, and I feel free to say that at least half of your term has been earned by me since you didn't participate in the campaign. If the Constitution gives me the right to have as a man the mandate I won in the elections, let me, when I consider my mandate to be misused, decide to use it for the benefit of Serbian citizens, not for the sake of Vojislav Seselj or the SRS. I also recommend that you, one day, lift your head up, and when they tell you that you are a goose to say that you are not a goose. Otherwise, the law regulates some relationships. They've been regulated so far. Some things may be a little more concrete, but you from the ruling majority still don't dare solve this story of who takes, who steals what. I'm surprised, Mr. Minister, that you didn't respond to the insinuation that you didn't act well on the decisions of the Administrative Board and that at least you didn't say, as a long-time MP, a lawyer, that it wasn't your job at all and that you said that responsibility lies in the National Assembly, and that it really almost bears no responsibility. As far as we're concerned, we're proud of what we've done and what many are starting to look like us. We are proud of Serbia becoming a normal state. And it will be normal if you in power decide to put all the thieves behind bars, to allow democracy to develop, so that we from the SNS have as much media representation as the SRS does. We're not on state media, public service. That's where the radicals are represented, but we're not complaining to anyone. We participate in all elections and prove that in 1.2 million votes, one large part is ours. I truly want the SRS to pass the censorship in the next election because there's still a lot of good and hardworking people out there. If you continue to act like you've done so far, I couldn't provide you with that census anymore. Even if my name were on the list, I don't think we'd cross the census, and I'm just so embarrassed after 20 years of politics I won't. You have written countless amendments to the law and you assure me here that all amendments are rational, necessary and that everyone improves the text of the law. That's not true. You understand nonsense, and I don't think you'll ever write this many amendments to any bill again. I think you're looking for an excuse for the failures that await you in the next election. You are neither expelled nor prevented from making your views known. At least three other MPs can sit in the hall, but there are none, but all of them have been left to Miss Marina Ragush, to explain and to know everything, just as her president, who was in a similar situation in 2001. We don't need to vote for this law because you have to ensure that most of you vote for it. Basically, it's acceptable for us. We wanted to increase the number of those who set up the political party, you accepted the amendment. We wanted to regulate some other relationships, you accepted amendments, our amendments, or someone from the opposition who regulated it in a better way. I don't think you've yet defined your story to the parties of the national minorities. There is something missing that would completely convince us that you want the parties of the national minorities to be a part of Serbia's political system, not the political system of the national minority. You've had opportunities for the different representatives of the same minority here to engage in a fight and fight, so you don't know who they represent and how they entered parliament. In my understanding, there is room for all Serbian citizens in these major political parties. To separate something as a party to a national minority is a kind of ghettoisation, an opportunity for some prominent among them to be MPs, but they would be happy to be seen on the lists of other political parties. They simply don't accept you declaring them parties who don't care about minorities. If SNS cares about minorities in Serbia and there is a national minority party who cares about that minority, why are we in a subordinate position to them? Why are they marked as those who care about the minority, even if they do not have to fulfill too many conditions, since they, for God's sake, care about the minority. We are a state of equal citizens, completely free by the Constitution to organise themselves politically, to develop their political ideas and to see that the ideas of political parties of national minorities are unacceptable to other political parties. After all, you are also a representative of a political party who, in its ranks, even in the parliamentary benches, just like us, has representatives of national minorities. You put them in a position to tell them in their midst – you betray your minority party, draw votes to another party, who does not represent the attitudes of our national minority, but has some broader, general, socially significant political attitudes. That's what I resented in 2001 or 2002 when a reduced censorship was introduced for political minority parties, and I have to resent it, no matter how someone interprets it. We are a country which you have advocated to be even citizens in the preamble of the Constitution, in its first member, and yet we have become a state of the Serbian people and of all other citizens living in it, with the exclusive right to positive discrimination against national minorities, it seems to me the only law that has been fully commended by the Venice Commission. I'm just afraid that you're not pushing all the minority members into one political party, which is no one's interest. No one in Serbia, not in any democratic state in the world, is interested in all members of one nation, one minority or one religious community being in one political party. There's no charm, no diversity of ideas, no exchange of ideas, listen to the president. Even the big parties listen blindly to the president until he breaks it, and it is very difficult to cancel, since he is in the form of a parliamentary mandate, some function, and even in power, some function. People find it hard to decide to stand up to the president of the political party, not even dare, hesitate to stand up to him in the election, in fear of being won by chance. So the law is good. You could have gone along and been better able to solve all the problems that come out here, but I would really like this to be what you've been talking about for days in front of the media, forsyrate, favour, mark as something that will be very good, that it was all in one package, that you've been prepared by election laws, the law on the financing of political parties and the law on local self-government, all the laws concerning political organisation, elections, mandates. We need to discuss all the laws at once because we would know what your goal is. Circle all the problems, give the solution universally, and we say – this is good, and this is not good. This is how you make us plead from law to law, and you won't actually accept it, even repeat ourselves in many of our discussions or in some of our remarks. So the political system in Serbia is burdened with the past, burdened by the fact that we have been watching the same minister here for nine or ten years. There's no democracy without a shift, no change in power. You only change the name of the minister, and the same people decide the fates of people in Serbia, of lives, of finances, of foreign policy, of the same, of the same mental set, of the same way of thinking. They've trampled many into crime, convinced that no one will ever replace them. The time has come, the time has come for Serbian citizens to seek at all costs the shift of power, you will see. They know it's not good what you've been doing so far. They want to see new faces, maybe not even us who are too famous in the opposition, maybe they're looking for brand-new faces, we'll see what they're looking for in the election. But the basic postulate of democracy -- the change of power you, here, have failed to provide in nine years. You said that every government in transition is hard to take on, that it won't be popular, but you never got out of power for someone else to be unpopular. No, you insist on being unpopular, but to be ministers, which seems a bit suicidal because the time is coming when this unpopularity, coupled with the loss of power, will represent even going into political retirement. So far, you've been raising yourself because you've been introducing yourself to Serbia as the only people who, even when they lose power, can help us be in the EU, provide good loans, funds from various access and pre-accession funds. Today when Europe is moving away from Serbia and clearly shows it will set a final condition that we will not be able to meet, today it is no longer worth talking about that only you can lead us, because you are leading us to Europe, to Europe, in collaboration with the world. There's a lot of us who can also do it, and we didn't let the people we're working with get in the way of crime. And how anyone lives and how honest he is, that will be decided by the next election. That's why we're ready for them, which is why we're looking for these elections, so I recommend, Mr. Minister, if you ever have a session of the government, not just a phone call, to start this issue of choices waiting for us because it's obvious that thousands of dissatisfactions will come out on the streets after these measures that are so late and, I think, without a deep analysis you're proposing and tomorrow they'll start adopting them. We will participate in the political system of Serbia, we will be an absolute party loyal to the respect of the Constitution, law and institutions, we will fight to get you off the force, but in a way that no mother and no child will cry for it, that no one will be threatened by life and existence; in a way that we continue to talk to you on the street as friends; in a way that we never set blackmail conditions for you – if you give it to us, we will do so; in a way that we will ensure that even when you are in opposition, so one day you can replace us, you can say – with such people Serbia should lead forward. We're going to vote against this law, and we think it's going to introduce a little order, a little bit of a serious political scene.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-23-0.u18067	The word has the state administration minister and local self-government Mr. Milan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-23-0.u18068	Mr. Nikolic, I wouldn't be honest if I didn't say I was glad you said this bill was acceptable to you, despite your request as an opposition party from the ruling coalition to secure votes to vote in this law. It's your legitimate right, I absolutely don't dispute it. I agree with you, the ruling coalition needs to secure votes. I hope the ruling coalition will provide votes. But you've been in Serbia's political life for a long time, you know how much it takes to change our political system, you know how important it is to give a new legitimacy to political processes in our society, and that is why I'm flattered that you've told me about this law. As far as the other laws are concerned, there is a public debate on the law on selecting committees, the law on the electoral list, the law on the state election commission, and the law on the election of MPs is not yet in the public debate. I would also like for that law to have at least the same attitude as you have brought here, therefore, to be acceptable to most parties in Serbia. If it's one of the ministers for one year of office, I don't think it's very small. It is the reform of the political system, the largest since 1990. The law on the financing of political parties, as you know, is not in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of State Administration. I repeat again, I agree with you, the way the amendments submitted in the same text are explained is not good. I will ask the Secretariat for legislation to change that way. I just want to remind you that this way is identical to the one that existed for the past eight years. I would also like to stress that the opposition and those submitted by the ruling coalition accept the opposition's amendments in competition with the same amendments. Simply, Mr Markevic's amendment came in time before Mr Mehe Omerovic's amendment, so there is no dilemma. As for the address of colleague Ragush, I don't think she expected an answer in that direction either. It is clear that as a minister, I have no right to comment on the decision of the Administrative Committee of the Serbian Parliament, it would be untasteful, and it would certainly be contrary to the principles of the division of powers that we all advocate. Once again, I'm sorry you won't vote for the law, but I respect your legitimate right and political commitment, but I am pleased to say the words you have put forward in favour of this law. I want to tell you that the question of the definition of national minorities' parties is as it has been for many years. At this point, we share parties in general and parties of national minorities, but we have made an effort to correct the definition in Article 3 through Mr Slobodan Samardzic's amendment. We had direct contact with Mr Samardzic, and I think we have made that amendment far better than it has ever been, when it comes to the definition of a national minority party. Of course, we can never give up on the specific definition of the parties of national minorities again, given that the level of minority rights achieved cannot be reduced, and that those in this definition actually derive certain benefits for which we as a society have been defined in a system of positive discrimination for the parties of national minorities. Thank you again for your presentation.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-23-0.u18069	The word has a folk emissary, Vesna Pesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-23-0.u18070	I'd just like to ask a question and say that in our history more than a hundred years ago, the People's Radical Party had two-thirds of the vote or three-quarters of the voter's vote. When a proportional system was introduced, the question was why a proportional system was introduced and they replied, "It is the only way to protect minorities". I read, I think yesterday it was in an interview with "Politica", that Mr. Milan Markovic said, "It rang out to small parties". Mr. Minister, it will turn out again that I have something special against you, but I really have no reason, when it comes to the Assembly or anyone in this assembly, any minister, that I have some personal relations, some personal sympathy or unsympathies. Really, what kind of political direction is going on here, that you're declaring that it's ringing small parties and what's really bothering you? I know there are small parties in the Netherlands and in many other countries, bigger parties. Instead of being proud that we have these small parties that skip the censorship and enter the parliament legitimately, we need to clear up. I don't know why it's clearing up. If a hundred years ago, the People's Radical Party asked for a proportional system to be introduced and that they could thus protect minority parties, as advances, etc. (I'm sorry I may be alluding, but it has nothing to do with the current situation), you are now clearing up that area and declaring it to be small parties. I don't know what your next move will be, seeing as you're preparing the election law. What are you going to clean up further? I think it was fair, if you wanted to clear something up, I told you last time that we were dealing with a problem that nobody lives in this country is a problem – what kind of register is. Mr. Milan Markovic, you'll see what kind of register the citizens' association will be. How many of these associations of citizens, so some of them disappear, others form. Who's ever gonna clear that register? No one alive will ever be able to clear that register. So neither did this register, in practice, create any problems and there was no particular reason for one of the main motives to be clearing up that register. It seems it's not about clearing up the register, I don't know why it was done, it's about clearing up some parties. If you had come out, as a government, to a big, serious and extensive public debate... I think our political system is extremely dysfunctional, that it's corrupt and we can talk about it, and I agree with that, but the projection of the political system needs to be in a democratic debate and we need to get all the pieces of it, and not one piece at a time, and now you're clearing up here, the next pieces you're going to clear up here. It can't. You know, only Milosevic made laws that fit him alone. Has your party president decided now that he is creating some kind of political system that only fits him and corresponds to his vision of who should be on the political scene and who shouldn't be on the political scene? Maybe the journalist didn't say it well, but that "steering" thing, that thing that's been happening all the time, that you have some other laws behind it that you're preparing for us and that we're just gonna see what that idea is... I think last time I said that this law affects the freedom of association of citizens. Last time you said we had associations and we had parties, yes, but it's one thing. The freedom of association is one civil right, and that's why a man can't act like an elephant in a glass shop; when it comes to that fundamental right, we really have to act very delicately, so there won't be this kind of mixing and clearing of this or that, which, practically, is one ruling party.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-23-0.u18071	The word is made by Minister Milan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-23-0.u18072	Mrs. Pesic, I hope you understand that the title is made by journalists. Far from saying "it's bell for small parties". It didn't ring small parties, far away. We'll probably have both small and large parties. So that's the title, and you know it's the editor's thing, that's not the word you said. I don't think that's too controversial. When you refer to this relative representation, the proportional system, it's not that great. Both early in the 20th century and in our constitutional and legal theory, discussions were held on this. I would invite you to look at, let's say, what Slobodan Jovanovic says in his "State" section, where he very clearly explains the attitude that makes the system of the proportionate representation, in fact, not an imaginary policy and should not exist as such. In the end, proportionate representations always end in parliament, and the decisions they make are never due to a proportionate representation, but to a majority opinion. It's a topic that always exists and always will be. As far as the register is concerned, the register of the association will be arranged by us. It'll be great. So the new law on associations is in preparation. We're having quite a serious conversation with the Business Registers Agency right now. I'm not prepared to leave the register to the Agency unless I have any assurance that they'll run the register properly. We're talking about it right now. The Association of Citizens is something where absolute freedom exists. Three legal or physical founders are enough for this association to exist. Again, in constitutional law theory, everything over three is subject to controversy, when you limit something beyond three. Five thousand or ten thousand signatures, which we have accepted here, are not new in our political practice. In order to achieve a passive political right in the republican or presidential elections, you have so far had to have 10,000 signatures. Just imagine what an advantage it is once you've been able to identify yourself with these 1.5-year-old voters that you're a political actor and then you take off the burden from the state, from the citizens and from all the living; you who've already registered as a political entity are going to the elections without re-collecting some signatures. For local elections, it's two million signatures, two million over. It's billions and billions of billions spent in vain (both money and time), completely unnecessary. We'll take care of this system, if anything, at least one part of it. We talk about the rights and obligations of political parties all the time. In order for the political party to enjoy some rights, it has to be legitimate, it will be legislated with only 1.5 permeation of the electoral body. She legitimateizes herself as a political actor and then she can say – since one and a half changes in taxpayers stand behind me, I want money from the budget, I want a pass in the elections, etc. It doesn't prevent anyone else from participating in those processes, but then he'll have to rectify himself again through the collection of signatures. If we had full liberalisation of the political system, we couldn't carry out its reform, and I think its reform is necessary in our society. As for the talks, I have to tell you, if you don't know, I was in the presidency of the Liberal Democratic Party, they were Mr. Ostojić, Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic, Mr. Rangelovic, there were six or seven people from the LDP leadership, we had a two-hour discussion on the reform of the political system and I outlined what the next steps were. The next step is to change the electoral system, to replace the current depersonalised proportional system that will guarantee citizens that they decide, by name and last name, on the man who will represent them in the local parliament. It contains a new law on local elections, i.e. the election of committees. So, I explained to you the point of the state election commission. Of course, when it comes to the electoral list, there was no need, and that's probably where we all agree. So this is the beginning of a comprehensive reform that should be completed by the end of the year and after which we will have a political system that will give us a chance for both institutions and political actors and political processes to get that legitimacy that they deserve, because there is an undeniable crisis of reputation and process and institutions in our society today. I think we're going to do a big job by the end of the year, that this Parliament is going to do a big job and we're going to finish that reform. I remind you, this is indeed the biggest and, in my view, the most qualitative reform of the political system since 1990, with the unmeasured character of transition from one-party to multiparty system that took place in 1990.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-23-0.u18073	National MP Zoran Ostojić wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-23-0.u18074	Two things, Mr. Markovic: You keep saying, since you have a majority and you're going to vote 5,000 or 10,000 signatures for the party's registration, that that party will be established, let me make a parallel with religious communities, as traditional parties, so they won't have to collect signatures. Does this mean that, perhaps, me and my colleague Pesic missed it, that you have accepted an amendment that already in this law "knocks" that right, or do you promise that it will be in electoral law when it is, believe me, a word and an honorable word? That's one thing. That's the question, and this is the next one. Mr. Markovic, the problem with this law is that the executive government is trying to, and everyone sees it, only the LDP is saying to overturn the country's political system as it suits it. It's not done by force and using the majority. It's still being done in agreement. The proportional system you may not like, because now you belong to a big party, you help form another big party, and you think you're going to betray everyone else, but look, political ideas exist. If they are not heard in this House through proportional systems and representatives, they will be on the street. In the communist regime, the basic argument behind the multi-party system was that – there is, for example, a desire for Albanians to have a Kosovo republic. Is that what they should say publicly in a political struggle or do they work underground and secretly? I'm not saying we're in such a situation, but strangling political ideas and bringing to two parties, which is a product of centuries-old tradition in the Anglo-Saxon countries, Britain, cannot be applied objectively. Look, the representative, or proportionate system is valid in most European countries, and it is particularly important to apply to young democracies that are just being built by institutions. Maybe we'll get to the majority system sometime in the future. Now forcefully introduce it, objectively, don't be offended, but I'll use that word, it doesn't look like honorable intentions to us.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-23-0.u18075	The word has Minister Milan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-23-0.u18076	It's Mr. Shami's amendment. I said we'd be introducing these institutes six months ago, and one of those institutes is the one Mr. Shami speaks of; that amendment has not been accepted and will not be accepted, because it is part of the election laws. That amendment is part of the election laws, and that's what I said to Mr. Shami, and he's simply that idea that I suggested six or seven months ago. I don't mind, and I don't think I belong to the authorship of any idea. My second idea is, and this will be about the election for the President of the Republic, the election bail we also need. There's more ideas, and eventually some of them will come out. I went to your place and we talked about it. The new electoral system retains proportionality in representation, as the bill is conducted under Dont's system. Therefore, no one here introduces the majority system, we cannot introduce the majority system because of the Constitution. How do we introduce a majority system when the Constitution says a national minority in the local parliament must be proportionally reflected? It's impossible, I don't know which genius would make such a law. We want to make the depersonalized system personalized, not to vote for the leader. Our leaders are popular. The leader determines who represents the citizens. It's just not fair. Let the leader offer candidates citizens, but let citizens establish in their votes the order of those candidates to enter parliament. You know how we do it? We all do more or less the same thing: put our most prominent members in the top five places, headed by our leader's name. It's a long list. It's got 50 names. Look, the local parliament mostly has 45th in a row or 37th and no one knows who they are. We just want to change something in that direction, to personalize the current depersonalized system. The party will continue to have the power and power to determine who the candidates are and to offer the citizens of those candidates. The party will have to think hard about who it's offering. The citizens' votes will then depend on whether the candidate is even on the list. How many people will enter the parliament for the party depends on how many parties will have total votes, so when divided by Dont's system, how much the mandate will belong. Again, the party will not then determine those 15 terms, names and last names, but by automation, by the success of the polls. That's what I've been talking about for a year now, that's the idea I first put out a year ago. It's on the site, it's in the texts, the bill's been in public debate for a long time, round table 28, and I invite you, of course, to come to the round table. No one here has any evil intentions or wants to create a two-party system by force. Here at least 20 parties will meet the censorship, at least 20 parties, I can bet now, will be registered by the end of the year. Let's not change the thesis. What party sitting in parliament does not have 10,000 members to verify statements and give the party legitimacy? There's nothing to hide here, these are really honest and honest intentions. We'll do a good thing for the state. You will see that the whole system will be very different, for all of us, and I think of success in some future elections, not for us individually as parties, but for all of us politics and for those of us who have defined ourselves to be involved in politics. It'll give us more legitimacy, make it easier for us. We are no longer some anonymous person to be hidden behind the leader, we will be the name and last name there, in front of the citizens. You'll see, it'll be fine, believe me.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-23-0.u18077	The word was sought by MP Tomislav Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-23-0.u18078	I don't know why the Minister and Mr. MP are dragging us into a law that isn't on the agenda and I don't know why you don't react. What an election principle will be, I guess we should first see the political parties participating in the elections, and then have a story about the election principle. I see you've agreed before, and now you're passing on these disagreements or your consent here to the National Assembly building, and your stories about election principles and that, Mr. Ostojic, whom DS helps to be established. It doesn't look like you, really. So low and grounded that you're discussing, and you're referring to SNS, it doesn't look like you. You can be both malignant and cynical, but you are talking about how the two-party system is being created by DS favouring the formation of one other party, while saying that you are concerned about what will happen to Albanians who publicly express their views that Kosovo should have autonomy. Your head hair is not missing, and you favour Kosovo and Metohija independence as the only possible option in Serbia's system that everyone would be pleased with. So, quietly you enjoy this conflict with the Democratic Party; only whenever it needs it, you give it votes, either for the quorum or to form power in Belgrade. So you'll get some public enterprises and boards and an opportunity to attack another, who is in absolute opposition and who doesn't have any, according to you, benefit from this government, except patiently, patiently, persistently fighting for your rights and showing that the relationship between the government and the opposition doesn't have to be wartime, we don't have to look over the gun, but we'll look over these papers and who has a better idea, who can better implement it and who citizens have confidence in. So we're fine, we're alive, we're healthy, we're feeling good, Mr. Staying. I don't see any reason why you're dealing with us, and you really do have a constituency in which, besides you, it's hard for anyone else to penetrate.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-23-0.u18079	Marina Ragush answered her word. National MP Zoran Ostojic is looking for a replica. You have the right to a replica, a direct reference.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-23-0.u18080	I'm sorry, Mr. Nikolic, I never said a word about your newly formed party or you personally. I'm not bringing any disagreements to the Assembly. We are simply discussing this law which is on the agenda, which has implications for the electoral law. And because of the citizens, we're trying to say that this law has an implications for something that will come and it's one package that we don't like. I don't know why you found yourself called. As for these qualifications of yours about us, about our voters, about our politics, I can only tell you that you are right, as you have been right for the past 20 years, and your calm tone may be some voters can fool you. That, after all, doesn't interest me, we don't have the same target group. It's indicative that you've found yourself called. Yes, the Democratic Party is helping someone because they control most of the media, and you, Mr. Nikolic, and your party over the past seven or eight months, ever since you became a "yellow radical," I mean this "light" compared to "red marlboro", you've had more media space than the LDP since its founding, including campaigns. That's the point, Mr. Markovic. You in the Democratic Party can have a desire to reregister the party and delete the founders. It's legitimate that you have new founders. After all, your current president is not among the founders either. It is also legitimate that Mr Nikolic, who has made a new party, wants to have a new beginning, different from his earlier addition. It is all legitimate, but the conditions for such a political system as you are suggesting are institutions, which means equality in the media, Mr Markovic, equality in funding, Mr Markovic. How is someone going to be equal to the president of the municipality tomorrow, and you have 130 presidents of municipalities and you have all the authority that Milosevic may have had between 1990 and 1992? That's what I'm talking about, endangering democratic fluids, traditions and institutions, that this is dangerous. That's why I said we weren't happy. It's dangerous under these current circumstances. We should all have fair elections. I hope that when the election law comes on the agenda you won't mind our proposal that we all have free time in the media and equal time in the media, counting those parties that are registered, those that collect signatures. So, Mr. Markovic, we will avoid the influence of the tycoon, the money that is greatest in the campaign. Don't replace things, let you say – this will allow citizens to know who they're voting for. Did the citizens complain to you that they didn't know?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-23-0.u18081	Three minutes, MP, time for replication is up. The word has Minister Milan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-23-0.u18082	He's right, Mr. Nikolic. We'll talk about the election law when it comes to order. I doubt there'll be any who want to keep the current electoral system. I think it's clear to all of us, Mr. Staying this year, in two or three, but this is going to change. I'm perfectly calm because I know the electoral system we have won't be able to survive for long, and I hope we get rid of it as soon as possible. I only said for one thing, since you have insinuated that someone here wants to give up the old founders – the parties that exist go to re-register with 10,000 signatures of members, no one gives up the founder, but with 10,000 members go to re-registration. Don't take this the wrong way. The founders are founders, we respect them, they are still there, and to prove legitimacy it takes 10,000 certified signatures of members, that the party really exists. I'm telling you again, you'll see, there'll probably be 20 of those who will meet that condition, so we're away from some grouping, in terms of the two-party, etc. More later, the electoral system and the time will lead to the accumulation of the political scene, will not be included in the law. A law that would directly try to bring the political scene down to two parties, which we fully agree on, would be a complete absurdity, would be undemocratic and I don't believe that anyone is willing to propose such a thing in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-23-0.u18083	The word has a folk emissary Marina Ragush.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-23-0.u18084	It is that he is not a manipulative, nor do I want to oppose the position of my colleague Ostojić. It's kind of an unwritten rule that the opposition is not attacking the opposition, but the opposition, of course, is critical of the government. I guess it's a natural state and an unwritten rule, if we're already referring to certain authority, almost the definition of a traditional British parliamentary spirit. But as you can see, everything here is disturbed, so you have a chance for the opposition to strike the opposition. However, I have promised, and that I will remain consistent, even if I have been exposed to the greatest insults, what I really am is a target and a distance (I suppose you consider it legitimate) is a criticism of the authorities, I represent the opposition party. Also, I absolutely have no intention of going to the benefit of a campaign that is still being led against the SRS, in the first place, and to respond to insinuations that most often sound a little bit and personal, that speaks of all those who take part in this discussion. I am really only interested in the principle and test that DS, as the biggest party in the ruling coalition, should pass or not. You will allow, Mr. Minister, none of us here are politically naive. We completed some schools during which we studied the methodology of governance, the creation of a political system. We are, here I agree entirely with Mr. Ostojić... I forgot at first to say there's no "light" radical, there's only a radical. Nikola Pasic would in his own time, while we are already calling for the authority of a couple of excellants, in a situation like this, send a nice letter to the Russian consul and characterize Vienna nicely so that he does not make the peoples so as not to carry out his further occupation. A similarity is so strong that it can be compared to exactly this moment. What we can really say, I tried to record a few things that you said, you'll correct me if I misunderstood or I'm going to misread, the SRS is just an example of influence, force, political life of Serbia. If that's the way to testify to everything I've talked about, I don't want to say it again. That it is also a witness to the presence of the Serbian Radical Party, for example, in the regimeal media that are traditionally turned on by the authorities – we are not even in the tracks there, and we are most often not in a situation of equal participation in political life. Speaking of which, and all of us here are people of eternal research, comparisons and analysts, all of what is created as one media, conditionally said, campaign, and regarding our political life and our political system, should really convince all of us that Mr Tadic or some of the centres of power behind that, which and how they influence political life in Serbia, see Serbia through a two-party system that needs to be polarised in two parts. That's what we talked about, and that's what we all agree on. The messages sent during the presidential elections, that Serbia has only two main candidates, a media campaign run, with certain political messages, a way of reacting in the media just confirms what is said here. Of course the law can't fix it, I totally agree with you, but there are parallel processes. We can therefore vary this way and that's our political belief. It's all a picture of political life in Serbia. So, with the climate created to make one law bring about systemic changes, such as the change of the political system, the electoral system, we are given this signal. I'd like you to convince us otherwise. Finally, when you do some comparative analysis, you also make certain analyses with similar historical moments, you see that behind all of this, behind a small Serbia that has geostrategicly found itself in that position are actually these strong centres of power that simply reflect their influences on the political scene. So this isn't just the SRS talking. I will remind you, on 4 February 2009, the head of the diplomatic mission of the United States, not on radical media, but on one regime television (not to mention it now, but I have stenograms of this show), on the issue of journalists – is it true that you belong to a group of ambassadors who influence the work of the Serbian Government, Mr. Manter says – I am absolutely doing my best. The most recent case the media are writing about is Mr. Knezevic's statement that the Democratic Party has financed from the source of public enterprises. You've also had the opportunity to hear that some of the to God's opposition parties have also funded themselves from certain tycoons. It is not a topic, that the draft law on the financing of political parties is not a topic, but it is a topic for thinking about the political climate, and then we come up with the legitimacy of the political party. I would really like to hear how you will react when the party is completely deviating from the programme that is part of the founding act, goes to the elections, agrees with the citizens, places the tenth programme entirely and simply fully deviates from its legitimacy, and as far as the programme objectives, political goals and everything else are concerned. In what way will you, in the spirit of this law, react in such a situation? I can give you examples and examples of party deviations from the political programme, and that's what they registered for, for example. What we also had a chance to hear is that you have a wide variety of ideas related to certain legal projects. While we are already talking about a political climate within which all parties should have equal participation, and they do not, it is obvious that the government has a certain amount of fear of increasing the ratings of certain parties, because, conditionally speaking, blocking the access of all parties to the media in the first place reflects exactly that. We all come from one system within which we have tried in one way or another to fight the media darkness, the totalitarian way of managing. Let me remind you, your founder and president of your former party came to the SRS election headquarters right after the September 1999 elections to inquire about election results. Why did he come to SRS headquarters? Because he knew unequivocally that the SRS would not lie in any way affect the end of the electoral will. That's what our legitimacy is, too. Speaking of ideas, to get back to it, there is a serious question as to how you come up with the idea of bill proposals if all participants in political life, even if those who have passed the electoral censorship, do not participate in this idea? Speak, round table is April 28th. I would like to know where you plan to keep it, it would be an ideal opportunity, although this is also a fantastic opportunity, and I thank you for the opportunity to interactively talk about such an important law, that the public in Serbia absolutely sees what the intention is and where the problems are, because it's obvious that the problems are being put under the carpet, and that the media design of the story that you will admit is going to go to this side. It's a really unequal story. You know, the only medium that's timely is the one we have, which is the National Assembly. We do not have the opportunity to react as a political party to certain events in real time. Will that change by adopting this law? Will this law change that climate? Will all of us be able to participate equally? I guess that's the basis of a democratic system, that everyone has the right to equal participation. I'm telling you he won't. I'd like to be denied, but it's my belief that it won't be so, because if you wanted to make that climate, you could have done it with the previous law, so this harmonisation of the law and this kind of system change in the political system might have been a normal consequence of a healthy political climate. I'm not saying that only the Democratic Party is responsible for this, I actually think you're under severe pressure from the center of power. We'll talk about that later. If you're asking yourself, I'm quite sure this wouldn't happen, because each of you is individually responsible for your career, for your professional reputation, and I'm trying to preserve it, but it's obvious that this is about terribly strong pressures. We also know, say, that some October 2007, which is also the story of political life, political parties and their legitimacy, a very strange team met at a Parisian hotel and agreed on how it would work, and then it was agreed that a certain pi-ar agency would be involved in the media representation of a party, but when the time comes, I won't give up much of the topic. What is very significant, nine years have passed since 2000, and it really seems to me that most of the people who voted in favour of the parties that had gravitated the former DOS expected systemic changes in each area of life, I suppose, firstly in the political system. What makes sense to me, Mr. Minister, is why we are now saying that this electoral system is bad, why are we just now talking about these systemic changes when it comes to the political system in Serbia? Why haven't we done this before? What kept us from thinking this way before? I suppose you'll answer, and I also have to say, political correctness works, that I don't expect you to give me answers that aren't in your jurisdiction. For me, besides the minister in charge, you represent the strongest party in the ruling coalition, so for some time, I suppose you'll say that this is completely legitimate for one opposition MP, and I also use this opportunity to draw attention to a problem that is getting bigger and bigger, which threatens to really cause a disturbance on the political scene, and then further descends on the electoral body, or among the citizens of Serbia. I am trying out of the fifth vessels that what is insinuated and what is low blows are not noticeable as a fact, because for me, the facts are those parties that participated in the elections and for me the only rapper is the behavior of those who have power, who have executive power, which is the ruling majority, that they manage the lives of Serbian citizens. I guess that's the definition of opposition action. In this context, it is not my intention to respect all possible and impossible failures, given the inherited situation, but my intention is to detect an acute problem that threatens to become a very serious chronic problem. We can think, that is our well-founded political belief, that the certainty of the arrival of Vojislav Seselj, the president of the SRS, is indeed causing panic in certain circles. Why is that? Here's what I'm based on, and it's not a cheap political point: there's a fact written down in sources that, you'll admit, are all just not sources of SRS. I am talking about Mrs. Karli del Ponte or Mr. Zoran Mijatovic, who confirmed that the writing of the indictment was in Belgrade and that Vojislav Seselj (beware, the political climate and political discrimination of the political opponent) was sent to The Hague, not because we say so, but because the DOS intelligence code was written in the book "Sacress for Serbia", and Mrs. Carla del Ponte in her book confirmed that Mr. Djindjic said – take him away and don't bring him back again. So these are all our political beliefs based on the concrete examples we feel every day. You will admit that what happened on the political scene of Serbia definitely crossed the electoral will forever in the May elections. I don't know how the ruling majority will get out of the missed chance, from a very bad score on that test. What I can safely say is that you didn't pass that exam. I would like to believe that it is going towards the normalisation of political life in Serbia, however, I can only agree that all of this indicates that someone really crosses a system that will be able to rule, in fact, in which they manage well. If the Anglo-Saxon system is a model, then we know exactly who's painting it for Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-23-0.u18085	The People's Messenger, George Milicevic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-23-0.u18086	Madam President, the Honorable Representatives of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like first of all to say, bearing in mind the discussions that could have been heard in the past hour and a half in the Chamber of the Republic of Parliament, that I really think it is extremely evident that it is very important that, soon, in the assembly procedure, we have two laws at the meeting of the Republic Parliament, which are in a certain way directly related to the bill we are discussing today, which is the electoral law and the law on the financing of political parties. The second thing I want to say is that I am appealing to you, Madam Chairman, since it is on the agenda to discuss amendments to the draft law on political parties, to stick to a concrete agenda and to talk about the topic that is actually the point of the agenda. As for the very proposal for a law on political parties, I would also like to say a few views of the SPS - JS Parliament Club. The SPS-JS MPs' club believes that adopting the proposed legal policy solution as a profession will make it more serious, stabilise the political scene in Serbia and make political parties more serious on Serbia's political scene. I would like to say that one extremely simple process of registering political organisations, as well as the lack of mechanisms and ways to determine whether all registered political parties and organisations act, had the consequence that, for the last 18 years, as far as I know, 628 political organisations were enrolled in the register, of which 570 are being conducted as active, while all 58 political organisations were deleted. This legislative proposal, as could be heard, provides for many legal papers and we really want to believe that it will enable the launch of legislation reform in the field of political organisation and electoral processes, and that it will create one framework for the free development of parties that will not in any way limit their functioning. This legal proposal, in our opinion, is not rigid. It is not conservative, it does not stifle, nor restricts any rights of citizens in political life. On the contrary, this proposal, in our opinion, can be defined as advanced because it offers citizens the opportunity to organise themselves better. The most significant newspaper to be introduced by adopting this law is that, instead of so far foreseen tables, the law predicts that the political party can establish at least 5,000 full-time and business-qualified citizens of Serbia. The exception is national minorities, i.e. the parties of national minorities. We want to express our satisfaction that, instead of 5,000, we have 10,000 adults, or we have the opportunity, to register the work of a political organisation based on the signing of 10,000 full-time and business-qualified citizens. I remind you that 5,000 members, as the minister said, are below 0.1% of the electoral body. It is really hard to expect that one who cannot animated every thousand Serbian citizen will be a relevant political factor. I want to say that we fully support, first of all, the goal that is to achieve this paper, which is to reduce the number of parties that exist only on paper and really do not participate in political life, or in political life will remain only serious political parties, which are real. Of course this will allow for easier material and financial management of parties. In this way, of course, there is a growing political scene, emphasising political reality in society, which is an expression of political maturity, I would say, of a society. It should also be pointed out that the applicant has introduced a number of newspapers in defining areas that must be specified by the statutes and the party's obligation to make all acts available to the public. The work of political organisations is constantly being watched by the public, and this is exactly what should lead to a more responsible relationship between political parties and their voters and the public. The parties will have to keep their membership records more up-to-date and, where appropriate, allow the competent ministry to keep track of the records. The terms and conditions of association and merger of parties and the procedure for which such organisations are to be legalised in front of the body which has already been subject to the register have been specified. I mean, a lot of different definitions of political parties. The definition given in the legislative proposal defines a political party in one extremely modern way. This definition, in our opinion, looks at and respects several key elements of a political party: free and voluntary association of citizens, the formation of the political will of citizens and participation in the elections. By adopting this legislative proposal, as has already been said, it will cease to apply the Law on Political Organisations and the Law on the Association of Citizens in Associations, Social and Political Organisations, adopted in 1990. It's about laws that are regulated today by this matter. The solutions under these laws are certainly exceeded, they are not in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and European standards. This legislative proposal eliminates almost all shortcomings and much more detailedly regulates the process of establishment, registration, mode of operation and association, termination of work and a number of other issues which have been seen as problems in this matter over the past 20 years. The first authentic political parties, as is known, were founded in Serbia in 1881. The period from 1881 to today is very respectable and enough to analyse today's political parties in Serbia and Serbia's political scene with all positive and negative experiences. Finally, I would like to say once again that the SPS - JS Parliamentary Club in the voting day will make a positive statement on this legislative proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-23-0.u18087	The amendments, which according to the legislative committee's assessment are identical, were submitted by MPs Radica Jocic, Dejan Mirovic, Zoran Popovic and Slobodan Vukovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment, which according to the evaluation of the Legislative Committee, are identical, were submitted by MPs Dragan Zivkov, Dusan Maric, Dragan Acimovic, Milan Nikolic, Milorad Buha and Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs Vladan Jeremic, Milan Veselinović and Ljubisa Petkovic submitted to the first amendment, which according to the evaluation of the Legislative Committee. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment, which, according to the evaluation of the Legislative Committee, are identical, were submitted by Members of the Peoples of Elena Christmas-Talijan, Verica Radeta and Momcilo Duvnjak. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment, which according to the evaluation of the Legislative Committee in its contents, were submitted by MPs Dusanka Plecevic, Natasa Jovanovic, Marko Milenkovic and Lidija Vukicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs Radisa Ilic and Aleksandar Martinovic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment, which according to the evaluation of the Legislative Committee. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment, which according to the evaluation of the Legislative Committee, are identical, were submitted by MPs Milan Avramovic and Branimir Djokic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs Dragan Todorovic and Marina Toman submitted to Article 1 of the amendment, which according to the evaluation of the Legislative Committee. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs Milan Škrbić and Vitomir Plužarevic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment, which according to the evaluation of the Legislative Committee. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment, which, according to the evaluation of the Legislative Committee, is identical, were submitted by MPs Filip Stojanović, Dragan Stevanović and Sulejman Spaho. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sladjan Mijaljevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Ljubenović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by National MP Pai Momchilov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radica Jocic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Ljubomir Kragovic submitted the title above Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Articles 2 and 2 of the amendment was submitted by the MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Articles 2 and 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dobrislav Prelic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Articles 2 and 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Popovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Samardzic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Vukovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP, Srboljub Zivanovic, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Goran Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Vukicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branimir Djokic. Does anyone want a word? National MP Zoran Shami, as an authorised representative. You have the right to report at any time, just register in the electronic system and you'll get the word. The word has the People's Messenger Zoran Shami.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-23-0.u18088	I owe you an apology, Madam President, reporting for Mr Samardzic's amendment. Mr Samardzic proposed an amendment to Article 2, which the Government did not accept, and in order to be clear what it was about I will read you Article 2. A bill that defines a political party. The bill states: "The political party within the meaning of this law is an organisation of citizens of free and voluntary association established to achieve political goals through democratic formation of the political will of citizens and participation in the elections. "Mr Samardzic, on behalf of the Democratic Party of Serbia, proposed, in my deep confidence, a better formulation: "The political party within the meaning of this law is an organisation of free and voluntary citizens," the beginning is the same, "based to achieve political objectives by acting in public authorities or in opposition. In its public activities, especially in the framework of the electoral process, the political party follows and improves the values and principles of democratic policy. "In the explanation of the proposal we wrote, Mr Samardzic wrote: "The three basic elements for determining the concept of the political party in the bill (first, free and voluntary association of citizens, secondly, the formation of the political will of citizens and thirdly, participation in elections) do not highlight the most specific features of the political party. It is primarily its characteristic that, as a political organisation, it achieves its political goals by exercising power in the state through state authorities or acting in opposition. That is why these characteristics are highlighted in the first plan of determining the idea of a political party in the bill. The participation in the elections is mentioned in the second sentence of this article as a special public action of the political party and, at the same time, an indicative and imperative determination that it improves the values and principles of democratic policy in its public activities. "I'd like to add something else to this. Emphasising this definition of the political party, as suggested by the Democratic Party of Serbia (and I could call on it to be one of the known school definitions of the political party), we are actually stressing firstly what is the essence of the existence of a political party, which is the right to try to be a parliamentary party and, within that, to exercise power, whether by sitting in opposition or by controlling power, achieves the interests it is made. Everything else reminds me, at least, if it isn't directly mentioned, of that old period of the one-party system, where that one party that was supposed to exist actually existed, to God, by sacrificing itself for the people, suffering for the hard lives of the people, that I'm not counting further on what could be read in textbooks and newspapers at that time, and it was actually about sitting naked in the power of a single party with the persecution of all, of course, and thinking that there could be another party. It seems to me that the formulation that we have proposed is better and I do not see clearly the reasons why the amendment has been rejected. Finally, just to add that in the Democratic Party of Serbia, I also said that when we proposed amendments, that is, when we spoke in the principle of this law, we had a dilemma about whether we should write down exactly all the amendments that we could write, so we defined ourselves as another variant -- to write only eight amendments that would really touch some fundamental changes in the very text of the law. We were formally accepted four amendments, in fact the fifth, because Mr Markicevic's amendment was accepted, and in the same text we gave the amendment. So five's accepted, three's not. But regardless of the obvious existence of goodwill in this case, which very often exists with some other ministries, that there is hearing about what MPs, regardless of which party, whether from the majority or opposition, suggest, we are not satisfied that there are three amendments left, which, by our deep conviction, are very important, are not accepted, because it would undoubtedly improve the text of the law. Some minor amendments, some technical corrections, etc. We didn't propose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-23-0.u18089	National MP Ljubisa Petkovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Milorad Krstin submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Jadranko Vukovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marko Milenkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Radovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Veselinović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Duvnjak. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Elena Christmas-Talijan submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Mladenovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sladjan Mijaljevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ognjen Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Radisa Ilic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Acimovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Ljubenović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vlad Milojkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Rade. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Suleiman Spaho. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Todorovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Škrbić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dušanka Plecevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by National MP Pai Momchilov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Gordana Paunović-Milosavljevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Žutić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Zivkov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Marina Toman submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Maric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Marina Ragush submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk emissary Marina Ragush.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-23-0.u18090	Mrs. Komic, ladies and gentlemen, Article 2, in order to understand the meaning of this amendment, reads: "The political party within the meaning of this law is an organisation of citizens of free and voluntary association established in order to achieve political objectives through democratic formation of the political will of citizens and participation in the elections." In order to make it clear to the citizens of Serbia, who are here and so important to us, what we wanted with this amendment, we predicted that the words "and as such included in the register run by the state body in the Republic of Serbia" should be added to Article 2 after the words "in the elections". Our intention, as the promoter of the amendment, was precisely to intervene to strengthen constitutional solutions, i.e. Articles 5, 55 and 102. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, all in order to find, finally, mechanisms to prevent political persecution, steal mandates, play the electoral will of citizens and any attempt to establish totalitarianism. The proposed amendment aims to stop any opposition to democracy and the freedom of citizens. So most often, the amendments will have a more or less similar explanation. I will try to present in the clearest possible language what was the Serbian Radical Party's goal in proposing amendments to the proposed law on political parties. Fellow Serbian citizens have the opportunity to hear that they have submitted amendments, unfortunately, are not present. Mr. Zoran Krasic worked really long on this proposal for a law on political parties and supervised the making of most amendments. I am sorry that he is unable to participate in this debate in particular, as well as in a united debate on the draft law on political parties, because it is about a colleague who has a truly recognizable, specific style and long-standing political and parliamentary practice. I think it's almost impossible to replace him in this, but I'm going to try to present him as decently as possible during the debate in particular. Thank you for the opportunity to bring this debate back to life with concrete examples, which we hope will be the political will to be resolved, not straying from the subject, which is the bill on political parties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-23-0.u18091	The title above Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Ljubenovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Maric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Samardzic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vlad Milojkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sladjan Mijaljevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Jadranko Vukovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Elena Christmas-Talian. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Veselinović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Duvnjak. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marko Milenkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branimir Djokić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Vukovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Acimovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ognjen Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Vukicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Goran Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljubomir Kragovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Rade. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljubisa Petkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by National MP Pai Momchilov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dobrislav Prelic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Marina Ragush submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk emissary Marina Ragush.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-23-0.u18092	In order to make it more clear to the citizens of Serbia what this is all about, if we just say that we are predicting certain changes in Article 3 of the amendment, I do not think a complete picture of what is going on will be created. Article 3 of the proposed law on political parties says that the political party of the national minority, within the meaning of this law, is a political party whose main function is aimed at representing and representing the interests of a national minority and protecting and improving the rights of members of the national minority, in accordance with international standards, is governed by the founding act, the programme and the statute of the political party. The Serbian Radical Party thought this member would be much more precise and clear if a new position was added 2. Therefore, Article 3 of the word "in the sense of this law" and the words "and representation" are deleted and a new position 2 is added, which reads: "The political party of the national minority and by its name must be recognizable, that it clearly determines its political action according to the name of the national minority in the Republic of Serbia". We thought that, again in the spirit of the law, this would still be a more complete legal solution. The amendment, unfortunately, was not accepted, and it was indeed aimed at finding exactly that framework in which the entire legal framework would be respected in terms of strengthening not only those Articles 5, 55 and 102. The Constitution of the Serbian state, but also other members who speak of what should be a categorical imperative for all of us, is that every imagination or, God forbid, an attempt to oppose democratic principles and political action and constitutional order of pre-warning and, of course, if that happens, prevents it in time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-23-0.u18093	Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Popovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Srboljub Zivanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Radisa Ilic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radica Jocic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dušanka Plecevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Paunović-Milosavljevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Žutić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Zivkov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Mladenovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Marina Toman submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanović Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Todorovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Radovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Škrbić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Suleiman Spaho. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Acimovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) To the title above Articles 4 and 4 of the amendment was submitted by the MP Natasa Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Articles 4 and 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Articles 4 and 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Articles 4 and 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Articles 4 and 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Articles 4 and 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Todorovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Articles 4 and 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Articles 4 and 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Articles 4 and 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sladjan Mijaljevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Articles 4 and 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radica Jocic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Articles 4 and 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Duvnjak. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Articles 4 and 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Articles 4 and 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljubisa Petkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Articles 4 and 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusanka Plecevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Articles 4 and 4 of the amendment was submitted by the MP Marina Toman. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Articles 4 and 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Škrbić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Articles 4 and 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Veselinović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Vukicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Elena Christmas - Italian. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Srboljub Zivanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branimir Djokić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Goran Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marko Milenkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljubomir Kragovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Maric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ognjen Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Krstin. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Ljubenović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Žutić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Mladenovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Zivkov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by the MP Gordana Pop - Lazic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dobrislav Prelic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Popovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Rade. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Radovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by National MP Pai Momchilov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Vukovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Suleiman Spaho. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Gordana Paunović - Milosavljevic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marina Ragush. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk emissary Marina Ragush.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-23-0.u18094	So Article 4. The draft law on political parties, in the work on how the political party organises and acts, reads: "The political party organises and acts exclusively on the territorial principle. The political party's action cannot be aimed at violently destroying the constitutional order and disrupting the territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia, violating guaranteed human or minority rights or challenging and encouraging racial, national or religious hatred. The political party cannot directly destroy power or subdue it to itself." What the SRS, led by examples that have been going on lately, but almost traditionally, about the party I am currently representing, aimed at, is adding a new Article 4 which reads: "Political parties are forbidden to buy votes in the elections, to seize the mandates of other political parties, directly or indirectly." So, what is in line with the preservation of democratically expressed will in the elections, and thus also with what is the heart of democracy, if not the heart, is procedure and principles, and we think that this addition of the position of Article 4 was necessary to absolutely specify the will of the promoters, if the aim is to introduce normal political life and reason into Serbia's political life, independently and completely independent of any external or internal influences of suspicious capital. We really want the party financing law to come to the agenda as soon as possible, but we have daily examples of certain ways of affecting political decision-making, which is related to the legitimacy and functioning of political parties, to return specifically to the topic of the agenda. We think that such a thing is inadmissible, that in this context there is no point in having political parties exist in the way they exist, if those who group capital into their own hands will influence a particular structure and political action, and today, tomorrow and in the way that political decisions will go in favour of whoever gives and finances. Also, something that is completely and politically unacceptable, not because it happened to us, but because it must not be a practice, because it directly means ending the electoral will and then asking the question of what the elections are, is precisely a very clear legal definition of the treatment of political mandates. It may not be a subject closely related to this Bill on Political Parties, but it also refers (I continue to use time foreseen for the SRS Group) in the structure of the political party, the way it works, and firstly to its legitimacy. We think it is a complete collapse of political culture and parliamentary democracy if the political party allows itself to step down from the programme in such a way, so it agrees with its voters to achieve as many votes as possible. In a position when it comes to power by entering the coalition, it absolutely forgets everything that was electoral or pre-election promises. So this is a very important topic, which should be discussed publicly in order to reach a consensus among political parties on what is the best way to regulate political life in Serbia. We tried to during the afternoon session... in a direct relationship, it turned out, although it was not clear to us why this topic now that I am present in front of the SRS Group, but somehow it fits into that the themes are compatible. However, we have not had the opportunity to discuss this subject, and as far as the SRS is concerned, why it has submitted this amendment, which was the goal, why it has submitted some more amendments, which my colleagues will not be able to present. Exactly what happened as a background of the introduction of temporary measures into the municipality of Zemun is an example that should not be a practice. I try to speak using rational arguments and leave out any emotional reaction, because I think it's very important that we fight for the principle. What was the background, as regards the parliamentary mandates won by members of the SRS in the local elections, is the end of the electoral will within the Zemun municipality. I would really need Minister Markovic over there, because he is the one who has the power to comment on and answer this. So, just to remind you, this concerns the legitimacy of all of us, at any level of political organisation and at any level of the politically expressed will of the citizens who choose us and put us in certain positions to decide on their lives, whether it is local parliaments, the Republic Parliament or any other place, absolutely certainly, this is a principle that should be respected, and this practice must not be a further example. In doing so, I must say that the SRS will respect the majority's decision, that the only way to oppose that decision is to have legitimate means, by addressing the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government and Mr Markovic, by making amendments that should improve the law on political parties so that such examples do not happen more rarely or, God willing, that they no longer happen again. We felt them on our skin. That should hurt us the most. We're trying to get out of our personal frustration and speak the language of arguments. What has astounded even the citizens of Zemun who have given their trust and voted for a party that was meant to ensure that all pre-election promises were fulfilled, and it was prevented from doing so, is why temporary measures in the municipality of Zemun. In the first place, it was thus presented to the media that no one knew what it was about, which is a picture of political life in Serbia. What it was was a legal basis, and I have to say this is to apostrophe of the legitimacy of decisions in which we are trying to act equally as political parties, and why this amendment has its exceptional weight, we appreciate, the promoter did not consider it to be an integral part of the law and we respect it, it will be the decision of the majority, we will only be able to respect this bill as a legal solution. But I hope you realize that today-to-morrow this can happen to anyone and that today-to-morrow anyone can rule. I believe that this example should be an example to everyone, that the rules passed by the ruling majority (I welcome Mr. Minister who is now entering the hall, I'm glad to be able to ask you a few questions, because I think this time you own to answer that) apply to that ruling majority and to the moment when the ruling majority becomes an opposition. It is therefore important to fight for the principle, regardless of what the SRS is currently going through, with certain circumstances. Mr. Minister, what was the legal basis for introducing and establishing temporary measures in the municipality of Zemun, and today at the beginning of this part, I said that I agree with Mr. Nemanje Sarovic's findings, I can support it as the only true... You said that after the Constitutional Court of Serbia's decision, your ministry can take concrete measures. Until that decision of the Constitutional Court is taken, of course, without the intention of affecting any way in the work of the judicial authorities or the qualification of the judicial authorities, we could say a lot about decision-making in this particular case. What's the point of the problem that's attached to the Zemun municipality? There will be elections and we will respect the electoral will, announce the results and congratulate everyone on the results achieved. I hope it's not a dispute and we do it every time, whether we're going very well or worse than we expected. It's just political life. The election is always a great mechanism for each party to check its strength or weakness, what needs to be fixed, what needs to be changed. That's not controversial. I had to make this fence for what I was trying to present as an argument not to be seen in any other way, except as a fight for principle. Decisions and provisions of the statutes... And what are certain legal acts if they are interpreted in a way that is completely contrary to what is the proposal's intention? We can therefore believe that this bill too will be difficult to implement in this political climate. We would like to restore the normal atmosphere to political life in Serbia, only because of the citizens of Serbia. Speaking of acts that should be followed and protected by all institutions, the Statute of the City of Belgrade in Article 94 provides that the City Assembly may introduce a forced administration into the city municipalities only if the municipality does not occupy for more than three months, it does not elect the President of the City Municipality within one month of the day of the constitution, it does not adopt a statute within the set time limit (in this case it was 17 November 2008), it does not adopt a budget within the deadline laid down by law. The assembly of the city municipality of Zemun adopted its statutes and rules of procedure on 17 November 2008. This statute and Rules of Procedure, which could also constitute a legal basis for the introduction of provisional measures... I'm just trying to imitate you in a similar situation, specifically DS, when the electoral will is over and, conditionally speaking, very broad or very wrongly interpreted provisions of certain legal acts. Since the statutes and rules of procedure were brought in due time, and that was the only basis for the introduction and establishment of provisional measures in the municipality of Zemun, the statutes and rules of procedure, Mr Minister, to this day they were not challenged. They were not the subject of the dispute and there was no legal basis for introducing provisional measures. What was the issue? The terms of office were contentious. This is where we come up with the completely wrong media image that was created in connection with the whole story, with the intention of leading citizens of Serbia, the citizens of Zemun in the wrong direction. What is very important to know, I will stick only to the arguments, facts that are verifiable, and Mr. Minister has it on Monday, which Mr. Nemanja Sarovic directed to him, SO Zemun made a two-seat solution. It's about one solution. We've lost six councilmen, they've just moved on to some other camp. We think all of this was synchronised and well-designed, and the arguments will confirm it. Therefore, this one solution concludes that the mandates of the committees that have passed on to the other party have been withdrawn and the same solution has established the mandate of the other committees to change them. 33 council members voted for this solution. This is a fantastic example in the spirit of this law, let's see how we talk about political legitimacy and respect for the letter of the law. So, including the new six councilmen... Why is it important to mention this? The Law on Local Elections, Article 56(4), expressly confers the right on committees granting mandates to vote on that decision. Since it was a controversial quorum for the adoption of legal acts, as we can see from this, the quorum existed and the Zemun municipality took away and confirmed its mandates with its only solution. In fact, there is a complete disseminating of the overall process of respecting the Law on Local Elections and the termination of the electoral will expressed in the last local elections. What's the point? So, two complaints are being referred to as solutions, as if there were two solutions, one is to withdraw the mandate, the other is to assign the mandate. Of course, the court is dealing with the very subject matter of appeal and thus completely distorting what was true – that all the time it is only one solution that gives and withdraws mandates, in order to achieve quorum, in order to bring the statute and regulations to normal functioning of a municipality in the territory of the city, and all under the auspices of the Law on Local Elections. It's broken. So the court made a decision based on the appeal in question, which was actually a day after day, fantastically synchronised. So much for the influence on Serbia's political scene, in this case at local level. The court has made a decision that does not in fact correspond to the true state of affairs, but he could not discuss otherwise, it is in accordance with the law, but according to the appeal in question. That's all true. So, the Constitutional Court will make a decision as it makes it, we'll respect it, but this is the truth. Simply, introducing temporary measures into the municipality of Zemun is an illegal act. There was no legal basis to do such a thing. The highlight of bestiality was when the assessment of the legality of the process of bringing acts of the municipality of Zemun placed the city's authority in charge, instead of the Constitutional Court of Serbia. We expected that the competent ministry would react because it was inadmissible that according to the existing law, according to the existing statute of the city of Belgrade, the city government would place itself in the role of the Constitutional Court of Serbia and give an assessment of the legality of the adoption of certain acts. If this is disputed, and everyone has the right to consider it controversial, we expected the city government to say - stop, it's controversial, we have to resolve this and that these acts on the assessment of legality go to the Constitutional Court of Serbia. Then we wouldn't have an argument to say this the way we say it. At that time, we would likely wait for the Constitutional Court of Serbia's decision and it would be respected. Perhaps the decision would be very unfavourable, but we would not have the arguments to suspect that someone would end Serbia's political scene. This is where the local, city government took over the courthouse and did something that was totally inadmissible. Of course, this will be an example, as we are now reading examples of people who have been much wiser, much more directional, people of authority, like we may never be for life, so this example will also enter the annals of some generations that may in a more meaningful way come up with political life in Serbia. That is why we are also trying to improve amendments to certain legal solutions, not because of ourselves, because we are really pioneers in democracy, we are learning about democratic procedures and the democratic way of solving problems. The moment the government doesn't reach for repression, it takes the test and can call itself democratic. This power isn't and here's an example. We expected a reaction that should convince us that this bill on political parties will also strengthen the party's role, that it knows that it will be able equally to exercise its rights, but also that it certainly has certain obligations and enormous responsibility, because every party at some point can act as a power. With that in mind, we hope that this example will be very bad practice... We are waiting for the decision of the Constitutional Court of Serbia, I think it will resolve many dilemmas. We know for most judges that they are honorable professionals, that God did not allow political influence in the wrong direction, but we really just expect to follow the letter of the law and nothing more. Maybe the laws aren't the best, maybe they're the bad ones, but the laws are the laws, the rules are the rules and they apply to everyone. So we think that what follows will be in the spirit of this law, which should regulate political life in Serbia, by the restoring ministry and by Mr Markovic. When we are already talking about Article 4, in particular the position of Article 2, which is also very important to us because we think that one of the most difficult delicacies is an attack on the constitutional order of a country, what is very important to us is that Mr Markovic answers us – it is precisely related to Article 4 of Article 2, which says that the political party's action cannot be directed at the violent collapse of the constitutional order and the violation of the territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia – how will the position of Article 2 of Article 4, Mr Markovic, be implemented on the sovereign part of the Serbian territory of Kosovo and Metohija when all parties there, in particular the ruling party, directly destroy the constitutional order of the state of Serbia in the territory of Kosovo and Metohija? I'd like to know how you're going to sanction these parties. Will you ban their work? This is, in fact, a signed constitutional principle. Compared to your answer, we will really understand that, if that means sanctioning parties acting against the constitutional order of the Serbian state, we are on track to make a democratic state. If not, then all of what we heard today, both from me and from the other representatives of the opposition, is nevertheless an occupation at work and the end of the system, apparently according to the plans of those who swim well in the Anglo-Saxon political systems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-23-0.u18095	The amendment was submitted to the title above Article 5 by MP Milan Avramovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Elena Christmas-Talijan. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted to the title above Article 5 by MP Dragan Acimovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Article 5 of the amendment was tabled by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted to the title above Article 5 by MP Boris Aleksic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Articles 5 and 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Žutić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Articles 5 and 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Jadranko Vukovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Articles 5 and 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Articles 5 and 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljubomir Kragovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Articles 5 and 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Radovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Articles 5 and 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljubisa Petkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Articles 5 and 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Goran Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Articles 5 and 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Articles 5 and 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Articles 5 and 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marko Milenkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Articles 5 and 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Articles 5 and 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Suleiman Spaho. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Articles 5 and 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MP Gordana Pop-Lazic submitted to the title above Articles 5 and 5 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Articles 5 and 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Vukovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Articles 5 and 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Duvnjak. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Articles 5 and 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Articles 5 and 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Articles 5 and 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) To the title above Article 5 and Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by the MP Natasa Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Articles 5 and 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sladjan Mijaljevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Articles 5 and 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Ljubenović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Articles 5 and 5 of the amendment was submitted by Parliament MP Milorad Krstin. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Articles 5 and 5 of the amendment, which, according to the evaluation of the Legislative Committee, are identical, were submitted by MPs Dejan Mirovic and Vlad Milojkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Articles 5 and 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Maric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Articles 5 and 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Articles 5 and 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Articles 5 and 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Pai Momchilov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Articles 5 and 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Articles 5 and 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusanka Plecevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Articles 5 and 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Popovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Articles 5 and 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Articles 5 and 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Mladenovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Articles 5 and 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Articles 5 and 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Todorovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Zivkov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Lidija Vukicevic submitted to Article 5 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Veselinović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branimir Djokic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Srboljub Zivanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was tabled by the People's Parliament of the Verse of Radeta. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MP Marina Ragush submitted to Article 5 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk emissary Marina Ragush.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-23-0.u18096	So, Article 5, under the heading Legal Status and the start of the political party's work, says: "The political party achieves legal personality status on the day of enrolment in the Register of Political Parties (hereinafter referred to as the Registrar). The political party starts working on the day of registration in the Register. "What was the wish of the SRS is for the amendment to Article 5 to add a new position 1 which reads: "The political party is a legal person". The 1st position, which becomes position 2 after the words "political parties", adds the words "Republic of Serbia". After Article 2 which becomes the new position 3, a new position 4 is added, which reads: "The political party has legal personality status only in the course of the political party's activity as a non-profit association of citizens, which is forbidden to place funds or invest in profit-making operations." The proposed amendment aims to preserve freedom and the right of citizens to political association and create conditions for political parties to meet the obligation of democratic formation, but the political will of citizens, and in the context of even greater support for Articles 5, 55 and 102. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. It is of paramount importance that a political party that has legal personality status deals only with activity within the political party's activity as a non-profit association, so it is therefore forbidden to enter the business of obtaining profits. I think that every further explanation of this amendment is too high, given all this has been said before, and what should be an imperative for all of us who are trying to deal with political activities and political work is to keep only the political level of action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-23-0.u18097	The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Radica Jocic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dobrislav Prelic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Paunović-Milosavljevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ognjen Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Marina Toman submitted to the title above Article 6 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Škrbić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Article 6 and on Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Acimovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Articles 6 and 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MP Branimir Djokic submitted to the title above Article 6 and to Article 6 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Articles 6 and 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Duvnjak. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Article 6 and on Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Jadranko Vukovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Article 6 and on Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Veselinović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Article 6 and on Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Articles 6 and 6 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Verica Radet. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Article 6 and on Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Todorovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Article 6 and on Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Vuković. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Vukicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Elena Christmas-Talijan. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Acimovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Articles 7 and 7 of the amendment, in the same content, were submitted by MPs Radica Jocic and Dragan Todorovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Articles 7 and 7 of the amendment, in the same content, were submitted by MPs Lidija Dimitrijevic and Milan Veselinović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Articles 7 and 7 of the amendment were submitted by MPs Momir Markovic, Dragan Stevanović, Aleksandar Martinović, Ljubomir Kragović, Milorad Krstin and Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Articles 7 and 7 of the amendment, the National MPs Lidija Vukicevic, Momcilo Duvnjak, Srboljub Zivanovic, Branimir Djokić, Slobodan Vuković and Jadranko Vuković submitted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Articles 7 and 7 of the amendment, in the same content, the MPs Radisa Ilic, Natasa Jovanovic and Vladan Jeremic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Articles 7 and 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Žutić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were submitted by MPs Tomislav Ljubenović and Petar Jojic, in the same content. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dušanka Plecevic. Does anyone want a word? The word is Miss Ragush Marina.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-23-0.u18098	Mr. Novakovic, I'd like to speak to this member, my colleagues are not here, so I'm going to use the time scheduled for the parliamentary group, but I'd like you to tell me how much time is left. Until we know that, what we would really like to draw public attention to in Serbia, because somehow the public is the only lever of power to Serbian radicals and we regularly try to get certain arguments and certain truths to the public and she will know that the assessment in one way or another... (President: The time for the Parliamentary Group is eight minutes and ten seconds and your time as an authorised representative for a full period of 15 minutes. ) What we should tell the citizens, in order to make it perfectly clear to them, is Article 7 concerning the legality of the work of the political party. The legality of work and the assessment of legality is one of our most important topics lately, with the right. What this Article 7 foresees is that the political party acts in accordance with the Constitution, the law of the programme, the statute and other general acts and that is something that the SRS will regularly and solely insist on. Since any party entering political life at some point can become a party to power or part of a coalition in power, it is necessary to take this matter very seriously. Thus, the responsibility of each political party is a huge one, especially the responsibility of the parties that make up the power. Why am I saying this? When it comes to the legality of work, it should take into account the broader context of this Article 7 concerning political parties and their functioning within institutions that should act on the basis of some of the rules contained in the general legal acts. However, what happens when that legal act is committed? What was an example – this will end up with temporary measures as a case of an end to the electoral will and, which is now obvious to all, completely unfair treatment of the SRS – is that the city government has not respected the act that the ruling majority has brought. What the SRS can do is call on existing acts and seek and require respect for the letters of the law. What was up to us... On my left, there is only part of the subject, which already has one kilo; it was hard for me to bring all this, but I have brought only the most significant acts, simply to allow anyone who wishes to gain insight to see how we are fighting for what this law requires and, among other things, this Article 7. Proposal for a law on political parties. We don't exactly have co-operation in that. Assessment of the legality of work – it is known whose jurisdiction it is. In this case, in the broader context of Article 7 of this Law, the assessment of the legality of work was not in the hands of the city government when it came to the adoption of acts in the municipality of Zemun. That it's not just an SRS witness, it's an article 92. The statute of the city, which it states, where the city administration considers that the general act of the city's authority is not in accordance with the Constitution and the law, is required to initiate the procedure for the assessment of the consent of that act with the law before the Constitutional Court and to request the suspension of the execution of an individual act or action taken on the basis of a general act whose legality is assessed, if their enforcement could result in irrevocable adverse consequences. This is what every political party stands for, and this is exactly what should be the framework of each political party's action. But this wasn't done in the Zemun case. The city government has assessed, given itself the position of the Constitutional Court and assessed the legality of the acts adopted. What is a positive example, we heard from Mr Markovic today, is that the competent ministry will still wait for the Constitutional Court of Serbia's decision, which is only correct under the letter of the law, and on this basis will react in the context of temporary measures in the municipality of Zemun. Why is this a significant example? Because this example speaks of the political climate and the political functioning of political parties. What can any party expect today-to-morrow when acts that determine the functioning of a state institution are derivated in this way? We have tried to further amends, which my colleagues will not be able to present, even more precisely, every provision, every word of this law. Now it should be clear why we're doing it. Because even those provisions that are very clear are interpreted in a completely unacceptable way and have far-reaching consequences. The consequences will not be felt only this year and the coming years, and the consequences are the image and the result of some political action within the framework of parliamentary democracy in Serbia in 2008 and 2009. It will be a historical example of poor parliamentary practice. If, as political parties, actors on the political scene, we are not aware of this kind of responsibility, we should reconsider the existence of all institutions in the state of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-23-0.u18099	The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Zivkov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Škrbić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Marina Toman submitted to Article 8 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Todorovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 8th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Suleiman Spaho. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Radovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Ms. Verice Radet. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Marina Ragush submitted to Article 8 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-23-0.u18100	In order to make it clear to the citizens of Serbia, Article 8, in the work of establishing a political party, it means that political parties can establish at least 5,000 full-time and business-qualified citizens of the Republic of Serbia. On Article 8, there was really a lot of controversy in the public. Starting with the principle that each party participating in the elections is a potential party of power, it therefore carries a terrible burden of responsibility and is subject to certain obligations, but thus has certain rights, the SRS thinks it is reasonable to replace the number of 5,000 signatures needed by the number of thousands, precisely because of the degree of responsibility and potential opportunities for each party to exercise power at some point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-23-0.u18101	Thank you. The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Dobrislav Prelic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Popovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dušanka Plecevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljubisa Petkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Paunović-Milosavljevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by National MP Pai Momchilov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Mladenovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Goran Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ognjen Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vlad Milojkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marko Milenkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sladjan Mijaljevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Maric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Ljubenović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Krstin. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the 8th amendment, in the same text, the MPs Miroslav Markicevic, Meho Omerović, Mico Rogovic, Dragan Acimovic and joint MPs Milica Radović and Zoran Shami submitted. The government accepted the amendment of MP Miroslav Markevic and rejected amendments by MPs Meh Omerovic, Mica Rogovic and Dragan Acimovic, as well as amendments submitted jointly by MPs Milica Radovic and Zoran Shami. We heard an explanation for a move like this at the beginning of the minister's session. Does anyone want a word? Mrs. Milica Radovic answered the words.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-23-0.u18102	I must say that I was very surprised when I read in this book where the government gave an opinion on the amendments submitted that the amendment submitted by Mr Shami and I had been rejected, a team before Mr Markicevic's amendment, which is in the same text, was accepted. I am now very uncomfortable because the government is putting me in a position to make arguments in favour of my amendment, which the minister is aware of because he is on the basis of these arguments and decided to accept the amendment of Mr Markicevic. I think the least the minister can do is accept all other amendments that are identical to Mr Markicevic's amendment, because that is the most logical thing right now. It is not true that the earlier government, the government of Mr Vojislav Kostunica, has introduced a completely different decision-making principle in a situation where several amendments have been submitted that are identical, and the government has decided to accept one. As I recall, in that situation all the amendments were accepted, not what Mr. Minister was saying at first – that one was accepted and that others were rejected, because there is simply no legal logic there. The reason why we insist on accepting the already accepted amendment is not a matter of vanity, but a matter of basic legal logic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-23-0.u18103	Thank you. The word has an authorised representative, Mr. Shami.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-23-0.u18104	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, it might be good for the minister to come in, get close to the end, and it would be interesting to hear his reactions, perhaps informal 30 seconds off, I think he's at the restaurant. (President: What I can do from this place is ask the minister, if he can hear me and if he is close, to enter the hall and take his place and thank you in advance. I thank you. Until the minister arrives, I can say that we, this very assembly of the Assembly, had a strange situation seven months ago, I don't know how she was legally resolved: the government accepted the amendment of one MP and refused the same amendment to the other. Then the voting technology, as we all know it (of course, when you vote five hundred times you don't know what you're voting for), that same amendment was rejected. On the one hand, the amendment became part of the law, and on the other hand it was rejected. The way that law enforcement is cleared, I don't know. In any case, Mrs. Radovic said, it does not matter to us, it is important that the amendment has passed, whether it has passed under the name of this author or that author does not matter, but I think it would be simple that Mr. Minister (thank him for entering) formally accept all these amendments that have been given in the same text. In order not to speak again, this applies to the amendments of some other MPs to Article 9, where the number 500 is replaced by 1000. Speaking of numbers, let me just tell the MPs, some of these amendments differ from some using the word "digit" and some saying "number". 500 and 5,000 aren't numbers. It's numbers. The numbers are just the ones from zero to nine. In the future, when we talk about amounts, billions, trillions and all that, they're not figures either, they're numbers or, since it's money, they're numbers. I wanted to say something else about this amendment. I think that's what he deserves to be said. Namely, what was the motive of the Democratic Party of Serbia MPs, whose name was Mrs Radovic and I to submit an amendment to replace 5,000 signatures with 10,000? It wasn't our desire to make it harder for a party to register, on the contrary, our wish was that with these 10,000 signatures, the parties might gain some of their new rights. Accordingly, we have proposed a new Article 26a, which I will talk about later, which unfortunately has been rejected, and then I will explain our basic motivation for why we were about to raise 5,000 to 10,000. Otherwise, if there are no guaranteed rights to a registered party, then we can also discuss that this number of signatures can be negligiblely small, 200, 300, 500, then there is no need to go to thousands of signatures at all. So much for this occasion, and when it comes to Article 26a, I will make an argument in favour of this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-23-0.u18105	Thank you. The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Ljubomir Kragovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Before we continue the word there is Minister Milan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-23-0.u18106	It's about amendments in the same text again. I've already said once that I'm sorry that our Government Legislative Secretariat has applied this practice, which I know there have been for eight years, since I've been an MP like this, but I fully respect that this assembly meeting wants to do otherwise, and that is why I suggest that I read the names of all those who have submitted the amendment in the same text, because we accept all these amendments, they are identical and it's due to fellow Members to say. So, on the 8th amendment of MP Miroslav Markevic, MP Meko Omerovic, MP of the people, Mica Rogovic, MPs Milica Radovic and Zoran Shami and MP Dragan Acimovic. I think the intervention presented by Mr. Shami, and before that, Mr. Tomislav Nikolic and Mrs. Radovic are correct and I will try to apply this new practice in the future, which is more undeniably correct and just than it was for the past eight years. I myself was in a situation to write the amendment and that there was an identical amendment and then someone was accepted, and mine was not accepted. I totally agree, it's better this way and I'm glad we made that change.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-23-0.u18107	Thank you, Minister. Looks like logic's gone too far after all. The 8th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Elena Christmas-Talian. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radica Jocic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Veselinović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment is President Natasa Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Vukicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Jadranko Vukovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8th of the amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Vukovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Žutić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Zivkov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Srboljub Zivanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Duvnjak. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branimir Djokić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs Miroslav Markicevic, Meso Omerovic and Jelena Budimirovic submitted to the 9th amendment in the same text. The government accepted the amendment of MP Miroslav Markevic and rejected amendments by MPs Meha Omerovic and Jelena Budimirovic. It's the same case. The word has a minister, Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-23-0.u18108	I'm sorry, it looks like my concentration's off. We've moved on to Article 9. Same case as Article 8. So, it is Mr Miroslav Markic's amendments, Meha Omerovic and Jelena Budimirovic, which we also accept. These are amendments in the same text and we accept them as Government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-23-0.u18109	Thank you. The word is Dr. Zoran Shami. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-23-0.u18110	It's not a very common case. It's about this amendment where the number of signatures goes from 500 to 1,000. The government has accepted that and has become an integral part of the law, but I would like to speak against that amendment. I want to state the position of the Democratic Party of Serbia. The Democratic Party of Serbia believes that the number of signatures for national minority parties should not be increased from 500 to more, and I would like to state the reasons for such a thing. I have no doubt that some national minorities represented in this parliament, which are much larger as the national minorities of Hungarians, Albanians or Bosniaks, will have no problem collecting and 1,000 signatures, but in the spirit of the existence of national minorities' parties, I think that all national minorities must be taken care of, and even those who are not in so many and who may not have been politically organised so far, and should be given a chance to organise themselves politically, and for which 1,000 might be too large to register their political party. For this one fundamental political reason, the DSS believes that this number should not be raised by over 500. However, I, like any professionally deformed mathematician, could also give a mathematical explanation: that some party such as DSS, DSS or some third party would have to win about 200,000 votes. In order for the national minority party to enter parliament, it should win around 14,000 votes. That seems to me, like, 70 times less. Anyway, I was counting on it once, and it seems to me that about 700 votes, or signatures, should be gathered in that case, and that's, let me say, a relationship. Of course, this amendment will become an integral part of the law after the government has accepted it, but we still don't think it's good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-23-0.u18111	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Aleksandra Ilic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Shami and Jovan Palalic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. The word is Mr. Shami.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-23-0.u18112	Mr Palalic and I, on behalf of the DSS, have submitted an amendment to Article 14 of the Law which, I remind you, speaks of what should be contained in the statutes of the political party. Please submit an amendment to the position of the 3rd member, where the bill lists a large number of mandatory matters that the Statute must contain. We did not think that, in order to see the nature of the political party, there should be so much data listed in the statute, or it should not be mandatory and we have actually suggested that this position of Article 14(3) be significantly shorter. We said, "The status must be regulated", so mandatory, "names and headquarters of the political party; symbols of visual identity; the appearance and content of the seals of the political party and of the organisational units by the territorial principle; the authorities and their powers, composition, the way of choice and recall, the duration of the mandate and the decision-making method", and then we simply said, "as well as all other issues of importance for the work and functioning of the political party". In fact, what is stated is mandatory and it is clear that, on the basis of this service which keeps records, it can gain insight into how a new political party, or an old political party, is structured, and all other details that can be contained in the statutes; I do not see that some of those details that are mentioned in the article of this law are quite necessary. I think the formulation proposed by Mr Palalic and I is undoubtedly more correct because it decedifies what is absolutely mandatory, and this second is this second. I think political parties should be left at will what their statutes will look like; what it will all contain, which is all the details, it is now a matter of every political party, is not of interest to any state authority to overly worry about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-23-0.u18113	Thank you. The word has a minister, Mr. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-23-0.u18114	We've talked about this before during the debate in principle. I couldn't agree with your amendment for a number of reasons, and the key thing is that we don't see the same way as Article 14. It's not the idea of Article 14. To define the party and see what kind of party it is. The idea of Article 14 is that future situations that occur in the party's work can be resolved in a very simple way. In particular, we are looking for, among other things: representing a political party – it must be established in the statute of representation; the procedure of amending and supplementing the statutes – without it it is impossible to accept the statutes of a political party; the process of adopting and amending other general acts of the political party, if it brings them; the exercise of public work; the way of deciding to join a political party into wider political alliances. Then, that part of the Law on the financing of political parties relating to the submission of the report and the keeping of books of the political party and persons authorised to contact the competent authorities; then, the way in which the decision on termination of work is taken; the way in which the political party's assets are made available in the event of termination and other issues, as you later stated, of importance for work. These are, although at first sight may be confusing, issues which have been recognised in practice as points of dispute which do not have their answer in the decision of the competent authority. At present, there is a dispute at the ministry between the two representatives of the Slovak national minority, which we are very difficult to resolve because their general acts did not provide parameters for resolving such a dispute. We had earlier practice cases of some other parties breaking up, so they bonded, didn't blend together. When they appear before the competent authorities, in this case the Ministry of State Administration, and seek the entry of another person as a person authorised to represent and present, it is really necessary that we from their general acts can determine the procedure and, on the basis of the documents they deliver, make the right and based decision. I don't think what's said is too much. I understand your amendment completely, but believe me, this can in practice create very serious problems, which the final outcome has in the legal or illegal decision of the competent authority on the registration of persons authorised to represent and represent the party, which has drastic implications given the authority of that person in our legal system.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-23-0.u18115	Anyone else want a word? (No) Member of the 16th Amendment with the correction was submitted by MP Momo Colakovic. The amendment has been accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-23-0.u18116	I think it is important, since there have been a lot of objections in the discussion in principle to Article 16 and the issue of publication of the founder's name, we have accepted Mr Moma Colakovic's amendment and, under the new provision of Article 16, the political party is obliged to make it publicly available via the Internet: a founding act, the personal name of representatives, the programme, the statutes and other general acts of the political party, if it brings them. I hope this is to the satisfaction of most MPs in the National Assembly. I'm sorry that there was no provision left, but it seems to me that the arguments presented here against that provision were convincing enough, so we accepted this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-23-0.u18117	Members of the 17th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Shami and Jovan Palalic. The amendment has been accepted. Members of the 18th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Shami and Jovan Palalic. The amendment has been accepted. Member of the 24th Amendment was submitted by MP Momo Colakovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MPs Milica Radovic and Zoran Shami together submitted an amendment proposing that a new title and article 26a be added after article 26. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Mrs. Radovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-23-0.u18118	The basic intention that we had in mind when we proposed that the number of party founders from 5,000 be increased to 10,000 was, if the parties are already passing this strict criteria for registration itself, that it would be necessary to release the party's obligation to collect signatures for participation in the presidential, republican, local and rural elections. We believe that this would be logical, because it would thus free the parties from the obligation of unnecessary loss both time and money, which is not negligible at that time. In addition to making the political scene serious, we might thus solve another problem that may not be as important as the previous one, which is the problem of suffocation in the courts that are ruling during the election campaigns and the moment these signatures are confirmed. We have also said in principle that this is our key amendment, which in some ways will affect the outcome of our vote on the law itself, but I must say that we as a parliamentary group are very grateful to the minister that out of the eight amendments we have proposed have accepted five and that we are glad that he understood the reasons that led us, which went exclusively to correct this bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-23-0.u18119	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-23-0.u18120	The idea you have now put forward is one of the ideas, along with an election bail and a series of others that we will eventually agree and work out, which will be the consequence of this law. As far as the idea is concerned, there's no dilemma. That's what I was talking about while this law was under public debate. You also support that idea. What we disagree on is where such a provision belongs. In my opinion, the place of such a provision is in the electoral laws, in the section relating to the conditions to declare a list, a candidate, etc. You think he's here. However, I have decided, because of some regulation system, not to accept this amendment. We absolutely don't have a dilemma about this idea. We just need to finally get rid of that problem, not to say the terror we have when the elections come. It's millions of signatures, it's billions of dinars, it's hours and days of time spent, it's about harassing judicial authorities with signing orders, harassing citizens who can't do anything about their jobs at the time. So, we fully agree on the idea, but I remain in it to be incorporated into election laws. I want to tell you right now, when it comes to the law on selecting a board, which is being held in public debate, there is a new formulation on my desk. The moment this law is passed here, at the same time in the draft of the law, we lay down a provision that registered political parties do not collect signatures for candidates for local committees. I'm glad we're getting along. This law with its basic ideas (enhancing the conditions for the establishment and survival of political parties) obviously has broad support in parliament, which says the fact that we have this number of amendments that are still going in that direction, and do we really agree in some technical details, perhaps less important. In any case, I can promise you now, the laws that will be done by this ministry, which are all election laws, means the law on the election of MPs and the law on the election of the President of the Republic and the law on the election of committees, will contain the provision that you have just proposed by your amendment. If this helps you define your position on this law in a positive way when voting, it will be good. If not, I recognize now that you have in principle one positive attitude toward this law and for me that is sufficient satisfaction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-23-0.u18121	The word has the People's Messenger Zoran Shami.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-23-0.u18122	I won't agree, because we're proposing an amendment, and you don't accept it. I'll try to make an argument that might make Mr. Secretary change his mind. First, I will read our proposal to the other MPs (the question is whether they are facing this amendment): After Article 26, the new title of the election rights of the parties entered in the register is added and a new member of 26a is added, which reads: "Political parties registered in the register have the right to participate in presidential, republican, province and local elections, without having to collect signatures prescribed by the appropriate electoral law". I agree in part with Mr. Minister that election laws should be amended, but it does not hurt that such a provision stands in this law, above all because this is a law on political parties which in a certain way requires political parties to meet certain conditions to be registered as political parties, and on the other hand, it should state some of the rights that the political party has. When I go, say, register a football club, then I need to know if I have the right to play in what league, sixteen, it doesn't matter. Likewise, the political party that registers must know in advance what rights it is guaranteed. Tomorrow some other minister will come and some other government, the 17th government, doesn't matter, so he'll prescribe who knows what and who knows what kind of electoral laws he'll pass. That's one thing. Secondly, the adoption of any electoral law, and from Mr. Minister we heard that in some procedure, it did not enter the assembly procedure, but that the procedure for the adoption of a new law on local elections... There are three other laws, which are the law on presidential elections, the law on republican elections and the legislation on the province's elections, and it may one day enter into some procedure. But you don't mind, I, Mr. Minister, make that suggestion to you. We can discuss both round tables and officially in the Assembly on election laws for a very long time. You have many open details, in terms of the electoral system, defining election procedures, election commissions, etc. There are various details, very touchy, so to speak, which we may or may not have to agree on, which we will certainly be discussing for a long time. However, all existing laws that I have listed, presidential, republican, and even this local law, can be changed, amended and supplemented by those laws in one article that speaks of collecting signatures and inserting one sentence. I believe there would be no need here in the Assembly to discuss these laws. We'd probably take them by consensus. So, let this provision enter into this law as the right of a political party, so that someone doesn't think to challenge it, and you can, as far as tomorrow, send us these four electoral laws that will only formally change that. Election systems, new laws, etc. We can and should discuss in one regular procedure. Finally, since this is the last amendment we need to talk about, let me also say something about the law, that is, the view of the Democratic Party of Serbia. I'll remind you that in the debate in principle, we absolutely accepted the need to pass laws, the need for things that once, with various intentions, were defined, back in the 1990s or 1990s, to be changed or brought into order. I would agree, and I would not bid now whether there will be 20, 220 or not on the political scene, it will be as many parties as it is, it doesn't matter, it is important to the political parties and legally (although there is one more detail, I will say something about it) that is precisely what they should have. We're in the media now, and I'm afraid it's a little bit and deliberately done, exposed, in fact, to one silent grief at a time when political parties didn't exist, except for one. Oh, my God, at least that was idyllic. Then it was known who was the boss and who decided, and who had what there was to say and what there were some MPs; they could exist, but they came and passed 188 laws for one afternoon and went home nicely for the next six months, to rest. He's got this regret about the media. One way... I fear that all of us, my party certainly will, should continue to fight for a democratically arranged society, where the words "political party" will not be an ugly word, but it will be a specific association of citizens with those objectives, which are listed in this law among other things. So again, the DSS certainly believes that political party law should be passed. I also expressed the view of the Democratic Party of Serbia in the debate in principle when I said that, unfortunately, there are some inexplicable shortcomings in this law. For comprehensible reasons, the DSS believes that the provisions on the financing of political parties were also to be introduced into this law in order to round up the story of obligations and the rights that political parties have or, in the end of the line, the law on the financing of political parties should also be passed in the package, because the story is here to the end. In fact, it would be the cleanest if all election laws were passed, but these two certainly. The reason is that the law on the financing of political parties is passed by the second ministry. Well, I'm not sure it's necessarily the Ministry of Finance's business. Even so, I don't see any interference with one law or a package of laws proposing two different ministries. After all, the issue of the number of ministries and what the ministry is doing is defined by the Government Act and that is a variable category. That is one flaw, which, of course, Mr. Markovic's ministry is not responsible for, but I think it could have been in the package with this and that issue solved. The existing law on the financing of political parties, in my opinion, is not good, and according to the DSS, it should be changed, but changed in some particular direction. That, of course, will be said when it comes to that law. I am very sorry that the remaining three of our amendments have not been accepted. I already said, we deliberately filed them only for what we consider essential. I've been thinking about 20 or 30 more amendments, but not so important, and we didn't want to fix every little thing we didn't like. These eight, submitted on behalf of the DSS by Mr Samardzic, Mrs Radovic, Mr Palalic and I, were indeed some of our essential amendments. I have no doubt that this law will be voted by the ruling majority. It's good to get that bill, but the DSS, because of all this stuff I said, won't vote for this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-23-0.u18123	The minister has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-23-0.u18124	Mr. Shami, I prefer you to say so much – we are the opposition party, so we will not vote for this law, because in the end... (Zoran Shami, from the scene: next time you're an opposition party... Let's remember that, shall we? I prefer that, and I think it would be better for you, because in everything you said you didn't say anything against the law, so I'm guessing the law is good. So you're asking for something in this section called register entry that's the right political party. I remain in the position that the rights and obligations of political parties will be established in special laws, electoral laws, as well as the law on the financing of political parties. You're a kind of mathematician and a remarkable expert, but if you and your colleagues were to open this topic that you've now opened here, I suppose you'd be told that I'm absolutely right. Therefore, according to its content, the provision laying down the rights and obligations cannot stand in the part of the law, therefore, in its material vision, which refers to enrolment, on status issues. It's just, it's like when you tell us what the numbers are, what the numbers are, what I'm grateful for, I have to openly tell you that I didn't know the difference, I thought they were synonyms. So I'm telling you now, believe me, I can't say that in this law there are provisions that belong to a different kind of law. Anyway, thank you for everything we exchanged in the discussion today and on the day of the debate in principle. I know that it is not a political position to vote against the government's proposal, I know that you as a parliamentary group would vote for this law. I say again, I think this law is good and that practically all MP groups support the adoption of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-23-0.u18125	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 30 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momo Colaković. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Mr. Colaković.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-23-0.u18126	The Honorable Chairman, the presidency, the respected ministers, the government's representatives, the honourable MPs, the PUPS parliamentary group has submitted five amendments to this very important law. Two amendments have been accepted, and I would like to express my satisfaction and gratitude to the minister and his associates for their correct relationship with our amendments and proposals. As regards the law, since we have time at our disposal for the parliamentary group, I would like to say that, based on the insights we have acquired after the amendments and today's debate on amendments, we believe that the law is enriched, that the law has expressed most of the views and opinions of political parties in parliament and that it is a good basis for political organisation in our country and for the reconciliation of political opportunities and parties in general in our republic. With that in mind, I want to say that in the voting day we will support this law and vote for its adoption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-23-0.u18127	Thank you. The amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Aleksandra Ilic, to Article 33. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 34 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momo Colaković. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Miletic Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted to Article 41 by MP Momo Colaković. The government has accepted this amendment with a correction. Members of the 41st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Shami, Milica Radovic and Jovan Palalic. The government has accepted this amendment. The 45th amendment was filed by MP Veroljub Arsic. The government has accepted this amendment with a correction. Since we have completed the review of the Bill's proposal in particular, does the representative of promoter Milan Markovic, State Administration Minister and Local Self-Government want to give the final word? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-23-0.u18128	At the end of this debate, I want to thank everyone who participated in it, especially those who have found their place in this text. I think these amendments fixed the initial text. This is the beginning of reforming our electoral legislation and the entire political system. It is a reform that should bring citizens' policies closer together, a reform that needs to make the electoral process more transparent, cheaper, more efficient. It is a reform that should affect the legitimacy of us dealing with politics, political functions, institutions, processes in the future. I can only say that the Ministry will come out very soon with a few other draft laws before the MPs. These are the law on the electoral list, on the state electoral commission, on the election of committees, and I sincerely hope that by the end of the year the way the election of MPs will be changed, because I think that would be the crown of the reform of the electoral system in our republic. Thank you again for this discussion and I hope that most MPs will support this bill with their votes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-23-0.u18129	I thank Minister Markovic. I hereby conclude the review of the draft law on political parties, in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 19th point of the agenda – Proposal for a FOND LAW FOR THE Development OF THE REPUBLIC OF SREBIA (single) You have received the proposal for a law submitted by the Government. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs: Srdjan Spasojević, Dragan Vujadinović, Mr Jorvanka Tabaković, Jelena Budimirović, Mićo Rogović, Zoran Babić, Veroljub Arsić, Zoran Antic, Igor Bečić, Radojko Obradović, Arsen Žurić, Milorad Buha, Marina Toman, Momar Marković, Jadranka Vuković, Gordana Pop-Lazić, Sreto Perić, Marina Ragus, Radica Jocić, Tomislav Ljubenović, Petar Jojić, Zoran Krasić, Sladjan Mijalović, Goran Mihaljović, Milan M. Nikolić, Gordana Paunović-Milovljević, Ljubomir Kragović, Dusan Marić, Dusan Marić, Mirko Mujić, Mirko Mujan Mjavić, Miražović, Mirožović, Mirožović, Mirožinović, Mirjan Žović, Drag, Drag. You received a report from the Legislative Committee and received the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. National MP Nikola Žutic, by letter of 15 April 2009, withdrew an amendment that he submitted to Article 16 point 15, proposing that the word "financial" be added after the word "and the second". National MP Slobodan Vukovic has withdrawn the amendment to Article 16(4) by letter of 6 April 2009. The Legislative Committee is, on the basis of Article 148(2). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, rejected as an untimely amendment to Article 18. The bill was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The National MP Mr Jorvanka Tabakovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Mrs Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-23-0.u18130	Can I ask you before the amendment is debated, the chairman, since I have no document, who is the authorised representative for the amendment debate? The material says that it was Mladjan Dinkic and Commissioner Dejan Jovanovic, that Mrs Verica Kalanovic had such authority in principle, so please inform me who is the authorised representative and give me the written document.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-23-0.u18131	You're absolutely right. I welcome Miss Jasna Matic, Minister of Telecommunications in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and a written document with the authority to present today's debate will be given to you very soon, the service has just prepared to distribute the document.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-23-0.u18132	Thank you for letting me know. This just confirms that the debate on these laws regarding the exercise of the G17 ministers is fully sufficient membership in G17 for an expert debate, and you have the right to do so, and I will try to prove the opposite by my debate. I have made an amendment to Article 1 in the following text – that this is, in fact, a law that defines itself, that is to say, the accession of the Guarantee Fund to the Development Fund of the Republic of Serbia. In the explanation given to me by the Government in response to this, there is no dispute in the fact that this law treats the accession of the Guarantee Fund to development, but that it can stand somewhere in transitional and final provisions and that this is an entirely new law governing the operations of the Development Fund on modern grounds. The government's job is to hide what's important if it's defined for such an exercise of power, and this government has defined itself as such a way of doing power, to hide what doesn't correspond to the public, because it would diminish its reputation among voters. My job, as opposition MP of SNS and Parliament Club Forward Serbia, is precisely to discover what is hidden, because the whole law is made for the purpose of joining the Guarantee Fund, which has 34 employees to be transferred to the Development Fund, who with 50 employees performs extremely important jobs for Serbia's economy by financing various projects, investments, but also by working for free all technical jobs for the Government of the Republic of Serbia in which G17, holding key financial resources, a huge amount of financial resources through subsidies (which regulates regulations, rather than by law) is assigned by only them by well-known criteria and does not have a clear and transparent way. The Guarantee Fund has achieved a loss. More than two billion dinar guarantees fell on the Fund's assets. The Fund's going to have to pay off guarantees that have fallen on the Fund's capital burden for development in fact means that the Fund's capital for investment in Serbia will be reduced to that extent. That's the purpose of this law. The new 34 employees from the Guarantee Fund who will come to the Development Fund will likely remain at the Fund on the already tried principle of psychological tests that have been applied since 2001 until today, in public knowledge, on at least two occasions, once at the National Bank of Yugoslavia, and then in the Tax Administration, where the mass of psychological and mostly pointless issues, with secret and anonymous tests for those who do them, but well-known and well-established results for firing or putting on a list of technological surpluses for non-matched people, were certainly deprived of those who are not eligible for the G17. According to serious people, I have information that it's mostly about very young people, who may, and perhaps should, find a job through this new stimulating recruiting fund. But, professional people who are from Invest Bank, one of those four shut-down banks, who have done their job very professionally at the Development Fund, replace this team of young people, I really don't think it's useful at a time like this. The first question I want to ask is: how and what expertise are these guarantees defined if they have fallen on the burden? What access to the preferential interest and loans were given to the companies (and which) which received these guarantees, and what could these companies have provided to the Guarantee Fund, for example a mortgage or anything, without being able to do so directly in front of banks and financial organisations where, with the guarantee of the Guarantee Fund, they were granted credits? The secret is in the state influence – whoever gives the guarantee to the Guarantee Fund, and with some regular commercial bank can provide that shortcut, it does so for reasons that it can distinguish from privileged to commercial interest to share with the person who pays the interest. How does he do it? The state influence and monopoly, because the Guarantee Fund was owned by a state and behind it is a powerful man, who, like Mladjan Dinkic, can, as long as they stop calling banks that are not included in the liquidity lending programme, who he advertises as his own, because he represents the government in the economic and financial work (knows that well the members of the government, and we also know that we citizens are destroying the effects of the management of financial and all other businesses and institutions), and that others who are good and include themselves in these jobs praise for what they do. So, the reason that Article 1 states that this is a law on the acquisition of the Guarantee Fund is that the whole law is just designed so that one who should be responsible for the collection of a project to establish a Guarantee Fund, abuse of the reputation of the state and, in the end, the funds of over two billion fallen guarantees on the burden, should admit it to the public and, as it is common these days to admit mistakes, like this last time Mr Jelasic admits his mistake in making passports. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-23-0.u18133	Anyone else want a word? The word is for the Parliament of the people of Snow White Sedlar.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-23-0.u18134	Dear Chairman, honourable fellow Members of Parliament, Madam Minister, I would only refer to Mrs Jorvanka Tabakovic's presentation, which is related to the test, works in the IRS. Since I was an employee of the IRS myself, I know very well how to conduct testing of people who are trained for jobs, highly trained personnel. These tests are carried out by the most educated psychologists' expert agencies in our country. That's the first one. Secondly, the test results are absolutely unknown. I'm not going to state at all which political party it is, but it was a very indicative example of testing a gentleman who was supposed to be, not to say, chosen, but not to be essentially elected at the last re-election in a large tax institution, I'm not going to say which territory, which is the best test, which is why he was v.d. The director of five or six months, and now he's elected director, regardless of not being a member of any political party. That's the first one. Secondly, as to the attacks by the Serbian Progressive Party, it is not dealing with anything but Mladjan Dinkic and the G17 Plus party. As someone who deals with human resources, I have always personally respected the profession, especially the profession of psychologists. As director of Human Resources of the Hipol Chemical Industry in Odzak, I applied it 20 years ago, the results were excellent and they have always shown themselves in practice as those who really gave us the right to deploy certain people to jobs, whether they were team projects or individual projects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-23-0.u18135	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Tomislav Nikolic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-23-0.u18136	It has been said that the Serbian Progressive Party deals exclusively with Mladjan Dinkic. First, he does not deserve to be dealt with by such a large and serious political party, but, unfortunately, other authorities are not involved. Mladjan Dinkic deserves to be examined for everything he has done since 5 October 2000 until today at the head of an organised group that has ruined Serbia. That's the group I'm counting on all the personnel he chose. You humiliate us here, for very important laws you bring your party's representatives to defend them, not professional people. It is unthinkable for me that you, as chairman, and you belong to that group, accept that the Minister of Telecommunications defends a law that does not belong to him at all organically. And now she's counting on something out there, writing in some piece of paper, like, she's getting ready to answer some questions. What she knows about Serbia and how much Serbia values we saw when she promoted that magazine that places Serbia in the order of the states that carried out the genocide. Mladjan Dinkic will certainly be the subject of dealing with members of the Serbian Progressive Party when we can decide whether criminals should be in prison or not. As long as the ruling majority decides that criminals are not in jail, that success here is when you destroy Serbia, when you totally break it down and break it down, when they solve machine guns that are going to be in power, when you destroy the domestic financial sector, domestic insurance, domestic banks, when only by similarity you hire people in Serbia, when you save all your people now that they don't get fired when the poor get fired, so far as the state doesn't work. As long as you can't go to the elections on your own, Boris Tadic will take you to the polls, and then he must offer you resolutes from which we have iced blood in our veins, so far in Serbia it won't work. You pretend to be as important as you want. You only have a lot of influence and a lot of power. You're making up tests to hire your own people. One day everything you do will be known. Now they're hiding you. Now I see why those who lead you through Serbia are hiding you. Because they hide a lot about themselves. One day everything will be open. You've had enough time to determine whether one of us was dealing with affairs that are against the law, immoral, that Serbia is breaking down. With the same right, we'll determine what you've done. My dear lady, you've already whined your staff, who can't bear the burden you've loaded them, the burden that 20% of their salaries must be paid by G17 plus and that their salary is so much and increased that they can finance a huge financial machine called G17 plus. (President: Time.) Don't, please, call the SNS. You've been a party to power for nine years. All the money is in your hands, all the institutions are in your hands. One day you'll see how hard it is to realize that you've defended people who don't deserve it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-23-0.u18137	Let's get back to the agenda. The MPs Gordana Pop-Lazic and Marina Ragus submitted to the 1st Amendment, which is identical in their content. The word has a folk emissary Marina Ragush.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-23-0.u18138	When it comes to the draft law on the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia, it is very important, in addition to the reasons we have given and attempts to make this bill as precise as possible (and the explanation and amendment you have and it is really a matter of legal and technical intervention), to look back at the situation in which we adopt such an important bill, trying to understand whether the Serbian Development Fund will manage to implement everything that is prescribed in this law. In the first place, what affects us every day, with regard to filling the Development Fund, financial resources, are the growing effects of the financial crisis that has hit Serbia. We do not understand, after this last arrangement with the International Monetary Fund, how the Fund for Serbia's Development will manage to meet everything that is the plan of action, let's say, for this year. We do not understand how the Serbian government, and yet in the context of Serbia's development, thinks it retains the level of employment for 2009, which is one of the priorities. We would like to hear from the government's authorised representative that, in order for this debate to continue, and what are the greatest interests of Serbian citizens, who, I must admit, are looking forward to, in order to know what their future awaits. What we should mention is that the effects of the crisis have a dramatic effect on the most vulnerable parts of the population. It should be borne in mind that half a million people live below the poverty line below, that, if I understand Mr Dinkic correctly, at a monthly level of about two and a half thousand people are out of work, planning to employ a number of trainees, with the employer not obliged to keep these people in a working relationship after a certain time. These are all very important segments, which should reflect the enforceability of this bill. It is obvious that the law was considered the moment when such a presy was not expected, in relation to the global financial crisis, in the very economy of Serbia, so the Development Fund seemed quite different, as an idea, but for now, in relation to the 2009 projections of the decline in production, the sensory decline in GDP, a truly serious debt to the world financial institutions, it is not clear how the Development Fund will manage to implement what this law requires and what a projection is, when it comes to a united debate on this law. We then expressed similar doubts. The data was a little different back then, now they're worse, which will say our situation changes every day. The only thing that interests Serbian citizens is whether this government is ready and has the capacity to provide financial, economic, social security, and that is, in the broadest possible word, the Development Fund. Of course, I'm taking the opportunity to touch the other amendments, given that, given the circumstances, I represent the entire parliamentary group, so I'm using the time foreseen for the parliamentary group. What must be noted are the results of recent public opinion research. Among other things, the alarming fact is that in today’s situation, fear of unemployment has become stronger than fear of death, or fear of losing a job. I think that fact is enough for us all to stop and think about how that life will look in the next few months, not during this year, for the citizens of Serbia. After the budget rebalance, which is on the agenda tomorrow, we expect another budget rebalance for this year. It is our belief that the budget deficit will be even bigger, in a situation where transfers to local self-government are smaller, when budget positions for certain ministries decrease by 20%, and we already have an external debt of about $30 billion, and some time ago, during this regular session, we talked about the loan of SE, which is about 20 million euros. These are for the start of serious figures to be considered, whether we will be able to repay all these debts and what the monetary and financial stability of the Serbian state will look like. This is the assumption of any story on the development fund of the Serbian state, and we hope that during the debate, we will discuss the details of these united points... In doing so, I have to express a protest over the pooling of such important topics, but I think it's getting lost to the quality of the discussion and the focus being marginalized, just because you're able to talk about different topics within one item of the agenda. I hope there will be hearing in some regular sessions, because I think at these moments we have, first of all, responsibility to those people who sent us here to present what is in their best interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-23-0.u18139	Thank you. The amendments, which are identical in content, were submitted by the MPs Milorad Buha, Sreto Peric and Momir Markovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Jadranko Vukovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Marina Toman submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment, which is identical, were submitted by MPs Momir Markovic, Tomislav Ljubenović, Petar Jojic, Zoran Krasic, Ljubomir Kragovic, Dusan Marić, Milorad Krstin, Natasa Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment, which is identical, the MPs Sladjan Mijaljević, Goran Mihajlović, Milan Nikolic, Gordana Paunović-Milosavljevljevic, Dusanka Plečević, Mirko Munjic, Ognjen Mihajlović, Marko Milenkovic, Bojan Mladenovic, Sreto Perić, Paja Momčilov, Vlada Milojković, Ljubisa Petkovic, Aleksandar Martinović and Dejan Mirović were submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment, which is identical, the MPs Vitomir Plužarević, Milovan Radovanovic, Marina Ragus, Vjerica Radeta, Gordana Pop-Lazić, Zoran Popović and Dobrislav Prelic submitted. It's an international emissary Marina Ragush.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-23-0.u18140	To make Serbia's citizens more clear, Article 2. The proposal for a Law on the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia says: "The Fund's activity is based on the following principles: 1) encouraging balanced regional development, including the development of underdeveloped areas; 2) encouraging the business of legal persons and entrepreneurs in the Republic of Serbia; 3) encouraging the competitiveness and liquidity of the economy of the Republic of Serbia and 4) encouraging employment. "Of course, the life of one member seems so phased: it goes through the discussion in detail and each of the parliamentary groups is trying to make each member as precise and clear as possible, so that free judges' beliefs and interpretations would be in favour of those whose laws should improve everyday life. So, in terms of precision and legal-technical correction, we also asked for the words "successful economic-financial and economic" to be added in Article 1(2) after the words "incentives". Why is that? In the broadest possible sense, by analysing the Bill on the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia (I am announcing the use of the time foreseen for the SRS Group of MPs) my colleague Milorad Buha has made a parallel, comparing the current Saldo of the Development Fund and what should be a projection of the activities of the Development Fund, just as I have quoted a member. Among other things, the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia, based on the law so far, should have been a financial credit institution to promote economic development and provide liquid assets, structure and preparation for privatisation, provision of funds for small and medium-sized enterprises, fostering employment, development of capital markets, fostering a balanced economic development of underdeveloped areas, etc. Unfortunately, such a wide range of competences of the Fund in the conditions of prominent socio-economic and economic structural changes that our economic system has been going through have not been accompanied by adequate financial credit and other investments, and in fact all these provisions that I have mentioned have not essentially changed. However, the Development Fund Act remained just an idea, only a letter on paper, with no practical economic recovery, incentives for development of small and medium-sized enterprises, sustainable development of employment levels. In a united debate in principle, in the presence of Mrs Kalanovic, we gave concrete and precise statistics on monitoring the rate of poverty in the city's largest centres, which a group of experts worked (some of them were even in the system of government at the time), consulting the National Employment Service. Believe that these data were very frantic, in the sense that certain regions and parts were invested, but the rate of development remained virtually unchanged, especially sustainable development. We think that clearly the wrong pathways of projection of economic development, co-operation with financial institutions, the signing of contracts that we appreciate are at the expense of the Serbian and Serbian state, are our political confidence. That we were right and that all along we were saying the only real option was even confirmed by Mr Dinkic, who we expected to be here now, so we could pick up where we left off a while ago. It's just that it's been fraternizing us all because it's starting to sound like what we've been sounding at for years. What we had the opportunity to hear at that time is that who knows when we will join the community of the most developed European countries, known as the EU, given that we are so many decades behind the development and standards before the status of EU member states, and until that happens, we need to turn to the eastern markets. Thus Mr Dinkic also mentioned certain arrangements with the Russian Federation, Belarus, China. It would absolutely not be a dispute if we were not angry opponents of the concept that Mr Dinkic has represented so far, and this is the concept of approaching the EU in this way. To clarify again, due to poor interpretation, the Serbian Radical Party has been for all those integrations that the state of Serbia sees as an equal partner, not as a counter to which the application will be submitted, and we only need to fulfil that, disowning sovereignty and integrity and our identity. That's how we lost our last chance for something that's a starting point for a good economy. In order for this to not only be a simple and empty political story, I will give just a few examples, as far as Serbia's development is concerned. What's obvious is the example of the Fiat. We know that in light of the global financial crisis, which is the deepest crisis since 1929, which showed that the neoliberal system was impossible and unsustainable, that it fell in one day, that financial institutions, formed in Breton Woods in 1944, had experienced a systemic change, actually collapsed, that the world was actually trying to build a new financial cap... So no one could assume that this would happen in such a way, nor would it affect the economies of all the countries of the world. We turned our attention, when it had already become evident as a very dangerous process, that something like this could happen to us, but no one listened to us. This in the context of "Fiyat" means that what was projected as a job for a decade could not have been realized, that "Fiyat" came with much less capacity, that Fiat is currently trying to implement a brand-new business strategy in the automotive industry, but we also know that Fiat has no one to co-operate with in Serbia's territory and that is what should be a significant example in the context of meeting EU standards. We know they've tried to contact companies dealing with the production of spare parts, and they haven't been able to make any successful contact so far, because technology's out of date, because it's based on technology that's 20 years behind the Phiatha technology. This is an example of something that the SRS has repeatedly pointed out for years, that the European Union has gone so far and that adapting our economy to the EU economy will cost us enormously, again with loans from international financial institutions. On the other hand, we suggested that our interests were, in fact, related to the Eastern markets in the first place to the Russian Federation. Why? Because we have something to offer them, because we're the most compatible with the economies we've worked with so much. We have also provided concrete examples, which will be dealt with later, contract conclusion, for example, for the construction of infrastructure, so we have seen that international financial institutions that lend and finance a particular project for performers mainly used foreign companies' services here, because our companies did not meet these standards. If all that were true, I'm going back to the very beginning of the story, we were confirmed by the Minister of Economy and Regional Development when he said -- who knows when Serbia will become an EU member, that's one process, the most real thing is that we are turning to the eastern markets at the moment. It's verifiable, it's written in a stenogram of a regular session. That's enough for us to confirm that we were right all along. Now we're trying to find out, especially during tomorrow, just to do a little digression, which is how we're going to fill the budget of the Republic of Serbia. What exactly does an arrangement with the International Monetary Fund mean for the Republic of Serbia when we know that, say, the level of GDP for the state of Serbia has been demanded to be drastically lower than the rest of the countries, what will it say that the state of Serbia has been required at this point in the financial crisis to drastically reduce public spending? That means the ministries started firing people, with whom they're very likely, after six months of deployment, they won't know what they're going to do. These people are gonna be out of a job. This further means that all those working within the para-state systems, and this is the only cost-effective business activity in Serbia, so that income within the state and the para-state institutions will also be in the perspective of reducing the state administration, especially in light of the fact that you inherited the state administration with 8,000 employees, and now numbers 28,000, also according to Mr Dinkic. So these are all the topics for which we will continue in this debate in particular, on concrete amendments, in favour of the interests of the citizens who follow all of this, try to give concrete answers, whether this bill is enforceable, whether this bill is so designed, in this way, can be implemented in a five-year period and how the Development Fund will provide the funds that are necessary over time for such a wide range of actions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-23-0.u18141	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment, which is identical in content, the MPs Filip Stojanović, Milan Škrbić, Sulejman Spaho, Nikola Savic, Marina Toman, Lidija Vukicevic, Dragan Todorovic, Nikola Zutić, Milan Veseinović, Slobodan Vukovic, Jadranko Vukovic, Dragan Zivkov and Srboljub Zivanovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radica Jocic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment, which is identical in content, were submitted by MPs Milan Avramovic, Milorad Buha, Elena Christmas-Talian, Boris Alexic and Dragan Acimovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment, which is identical in content, were submitted by MPs Petar Jojic, Vladan Jeremic, Branimir Djokić, Radica Jocic, Lidija Dimitrijevic, Natasa Jovanovic, Momcilo Duvnjak and Radiša Ilic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Tomislav Ljubenović, Zoran Krasic and Milorad Krstin submitted to the 4th amendment, which is identical in content. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk emissary Marina Ragush. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-23-0.u18142	Given that I cannot present specifically the amendments my colleagues have submitted, I will use the time foreseen for the SRS Parliamentary Group, related to the draft law on the Republic of Serbia Development Fund. It is very important for the public in Serbia to be absolutely clear what the last arrangement with the International Monetary Fund actually foresees. It was concluded on 26 March 2009, after ten days of secret negotiations. We, as well as the general public, were directed only on the basis of, however controlled, media writing in Serbia. What is really important is that the loan agreement of about three billion euros was concluded then. According to the NBS Governor, the agreement runs until April 2011. In the first two years, Serbia will receive about 2.2 billion euros. The first part of this sum will be approved around 15 May 2009, provided the board of directors approves the measures that the Serbian government will implement on the basis of the IMF's request. The second part will be approved in 2010. What Governor Jelasic said was that interest on this loan will range from 1.47% to 3.47%. So, before the conclusion of this agreement with the International Monetary Fund, which is Serbia, and yet in the context of the Serbian Development Fund's story, presented as the only salvation for Serbia, the government concluded another agreement in January 2009. That's when Serbia counter-inflicted about 400,000 euros. Of course, we have no intention of explaining the agreement in detail, which we will be dealing with during tomorrow's budget rebalancing debate, but this is very important in the context of the draft law on the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia, to see what the current situation really is. Preventive debt of 400,000 euros meant that the sum was not used until March 2009 and the completion of new negotiations with the IMF, even though we regularly paid interest on this loan. So, given these facts, we come to the conclusion that in March 2009, the Republic of Serbia owed an additional 3,000,000,000 euros, although it did not use the euro of the previous 400,000-euro loan. What is also particularly incomprehensible is that Serbia's government has implemented such a pointless economic policy at a time when Serbia's state is on the verge of economic sustainability, which is witnessed tomorrow's budget rebalance and another one that we expect, given the budget deficit that is likely to occur by the end of the year. We are trying to figure out how you think to implement the provisions of the Law on the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia, in the context of the beauty of the area of action. Also, what is very significant, according to official NBS data delivered to the National Assembly, the total number of economic operators whose accounts in the blockade on 24 February 2009 amounted to about 57,000, the number of registered employees in them is around 152,000, and the total amount of the blockade – 214.6 billion dinars. It is about 2.3 billion euros, according to the official NBS course of 7 April 2009, when we were, in fact, the first place, Mr Dejan Mirovic conducted these analyses by preparing for this regular session, among other things, to discuss the Bill on the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia. In the debate on amendments to the previous member, I said it was very important to explain to the citizens of Serbia, so let them decide which path of economic recovery should be the most profitable for the state of Serbia and how the Development Fund will be able to fill its budget, what is it that the IMF is asking Serbia to do in such a difficult economic situation. I believe that at least you will take part, in terms of whether it is logical for such an international financial institution to discriminate against the economy it is in Serbia compared to other countries. So what is officially a request from the IMF is that the budget deficit is less than two billion euros, i.e. around 967.000,000 euros, but certainly below 3% of GDP. Also, around 967.000,000 euros of the allowed annual Serbian deficit will obviously be compensated again from the funds received, we believe, by selling large Serbian enterprises, from the IMF loan or other Western creditors associated with the International Monetary Fund. It's a significant part of this credit arrangement. In this context, International Monetary Fund representative Albert Jaeger told US Voice that the IMF loan would be used to pay off foreign debt Serbia will face in 2009 and 2010. Serbia's Finance Minister said the 3% deficit will finance unexpended privatisation revenues of around 550,000 euros, from the World Bank's expected $300,000 loan, the IPA funds with about 100m euros, and the rest will be secured by commercial borrowing in the country and abroad. However, the remainder of over a billion euros, as short of Serbia's 2009 budget, must be collected from Serbian citizens, according to official IMF demands. In this context, the question arises: why did the IMF not first approve Serbia's deficit-covered loan or why does it insist on Serbia's deficit being below 3% of gross domestic product? Here we come to a very important fact, which paints the attitude of international financial institutions towards Serbia. We therefore believe that each presentation of an arrangement with a financial institution such as the IMF is a lifesaver's fault. Simply, given that for Serbia by the IMF, different conditions are applied than those applied to the United States... Because, according to US announcements, which is the largest shareholder in the International Monetary Fund, the 2010 budget deficit will be the largest in history and will be 13% of gross domestic product. Similarly, the double standards of this financial institution are obvious when comparing Serbia, for example, with the rich countries of the European Union: the budget deficit of over 3% of gross domestic products have France, Spain, Ireland and the UK, but they were left with a deadline to reach that level that the IMF required of Serbia (below 3% of the deficit compared to gross domestic product) only in 2012 and 2013. For us this means exactly what I said at the beginning – firing a large number of people who work in the state administration. We have referred to Mrs Kalanovic the question – what will happen to these people and how do you think to ensure the financial and social security of a huge number of people? We have not received an official response yet, but we would like to hear, in the context and light of the draft law on the Development Fund, how does the Development Fund think in this situation that it contributes to the level of employment foreseen in the 2009 activity plan?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-23-0.u18143	The amendment was submitted by MPs Vlad Milojković, Mirko Munjic, Goran Mihajlović, Sladjan Mijaljević, Aleksandar Martinović, Marko Milenkovic, Vesna Marić, Paja Momčilov, Bojan Mladenovic and Ognjen Mihajlović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljubomir Kragovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Spasojevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Srdjan Spasojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-23-0.u18144	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected ministers, respected citizens of Serbia, in front of the New Serbia Parliamentary Group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 4(3) to delete the point after the word "vote" and add the words "the remaining 49% of actions can be issued as priority". The explanation of this amendment is: "By priority actions we mean those actions, which in translation means that they are actions without voting rights. The adoption of this amendment would avoid the possibility of minority shareholders affecting the Fund's policy on any occasion. "When we speak in detail, and in principle, we could see that two illogicalities fall into the eyes of this law. The first is that the minister, Deputy Prime Minister Mladjan Dinkic, takes over, practically, the management of the Fund, because he was always the chairman of the board of directors. What falls into the eyes is the removal of the Guarantee Fund. A fundamental question arises, through this law we can see, who is the prime minister in this country? It is entirely illogical for the prime minister to allow such competencies to belong to the Deputy Prime Minister, or Minister. It's very illogical that the Guarantee Fund is abolished. It is unacceptable that future commitments under already issued guarantees from the Guarantee Fund fall on the burden of resources from the Development Fund, as this may put into question the operations of the Development Fund. As we can see, Minister Mladjan Dinkic clearly understands everything in this country. It is understood that free action and various promises that have led Serbian citizens astray, I would say, that this cannot be put up with anymore. To me, Minister, on behalf of the government here today, it is completely illogical that you are here today, it is obvious that you have solved everything in your ministry and that you have enough time. We expected that at least in the debate in particular under this law the Minister of Economy would appear, because in principle, Mrs Verica Kalanovic was here, who even said several times that she was not competent for this. The question arises that in this House, which is as it is, with such business opportunities, in the sense of the Rules of Procedure which restricts the rights of MPs in this country to discuss adequately... If I were you, I really wouldn't accept it, no matter what, because I don't need a minister coming to whom this isn't in the business description. So, we have these two illogicalities that I have cited, and because of all this that is happening with the Law on the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia, which takes effect immediately after adoption, and what happens with the chambers of commerce – where Economy Minister Mladjan Dinkic also took over things, but fortunately, it takes effect only in 2013, so that there will be still time for some things that are not good change – I think it is obvious that Minister Mladjan Dinkic is fully taking over everything when it comes to finance in this country, which, in the end line, is not good for business, is not good for businessmen and not for all citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-23-0.u18145	The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Radojko Obradovic and Arsen Đuric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Arsen Đuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-23-0.u18146	The Honorable Presidency, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the DSS Group has tabled an amendment to Article 4. The draft law, which adds item 4, which reads as follows: "The founding act, nor the other act of a company cannot exclude the right to prevent the purchase of shares by the founders". The proposed law stipulates that if the Fund is organised as a stock company, it is obliged to issue at least 51% of the shares with voting rights to the Republic of Serbia and that other shareholders can be domestic and foreign legal and natural persons. That is fine, however, this does not ensure that the Republic of Serbia remains the majority owner of the fund. We have proposed an amendment that obliges the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as the founder's representative, to declare itself when making any decision to increase the Fund's capital, i.e. the right to prevent the purchase of actions. We have so far had cases that the government as a representative of the founder or state had not declared itself in the case of an action package, i.e. the right to prevent the purchase, as in the case of the National Savings Bank, so we lost ownership of the National Savings Bank as a state. What is interesting, the government in its explanation of why this amendment is not accepted states that such a norm of law would be excessive. We believe that it is not excessive, because this norm is obliged by the Government to declare itself when increasing the Fund's capital, i.e. when using the right to prevent purchases. This norm practically meets the government's obligations more precisely. I really don't understand why this amendment wasn't accepted. I urge you once again to accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-23-0.u18147	National MP Jovan Damjanovic tabled an amendment proposing that a new Article 4a be added after article 4. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Elena Christmas-Talian has tabled an amendment proposing that a new Article 4a be added after Article 4. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Milorad Buha has tabled an amendment proposing that a new Article 4a be added after Article 4. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment, which according to the evaluation of the Legislative Committee, were submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Nikola Savic, Gordana Pavnović-Milosavljevic, Vitomir Plužarević, Ljubisa Petkovic, Zoran Popović, Dobrislav Prelic, Gordana Pop-Lazić, Milan Nikolic, Marina Ragus, Sreto Perić and Milovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment, which according to the evaluation of the Legislative Committee, were submitted by MPs Milan Veseinović, Slobodan Vuković, Jadranko Vukovic, Marina Toman, Lidija Vukicevic, Srboljub Zivanovic, Nikola Žutić and Dragan Zivkov. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk emissary Marina Ragush.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-23-0.u18148	I wasn't fast enough to be spotted, but it doesn't matter, I'm using the time available to the SRS Parliamentary Group. With that in mind, it is very important that I say what is in Article 5. Proposal for a Law on the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia. It's just under the heading of the Fund's jobs, funds and the Fund's intentions. My most attention has been paid to this part, which we consider to be of paramount importance, because it ultimately speaks of how everything that is the competence of the Development Fund will be implemented. Among other things, it is said: "The Fund is doing business relating to: 1) loan approval; 2) guarantee issue; 3) purchase of securities of value; 4) other business on behalf of and at the expense of the Republic of Serbia, in accordance with the law. The Fund’s professional and financial technical services shall be carried out by the Fund’s staff, in accordance with the Statute of the Fund. The staff of the Fund shall have the rights and obligations under the Labour and Corporate Contract Act. "The amendment to Article 5(1) of point 4 has been foreseen, in terms of legal-technical correction, that after the words "others" are added the words "organisational, legal, economic and financial". There is an opportunity to actually continue to explain the amendments that my colleagues cannot present, as regards the draft law on the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia. Thanks to the material prepared for this meeting by Mr Milorad Buha, it seems to me that the citizens of Serbia will, however, be more clear how much the Development Fund in the previous legislative proposal has managed to meet everything that has been the authority of the Development Fund, whether the path chosen as the path of development of the Republic of Serbia is the right path. It can be said that this crisis has brought to the surface all those areas that have not been touched by reforms. We have provided information that the fact that it did not take a reform path is indeed a deviation from the election promises in September 1999, that it was actually buying social and political peace, or a politically stable government, that the most often financed state and para-state structure in the context of the agencies, that it was not working on reviving the economy, which was meant to carry a period like this. Responsible authorities and those who sign the monetary-credit policy and the financial stability of a country should have responsible projections to work on developing the economy in the context of the period as it is now, because we feel the effects of the financial crisis daily. There is almost no family in Serbia that will not be touched by the effects of the financial crisis. What Mr. Buha thinks, and I'm trying to put it in the best possible way, with the doctrine that has been applied in the case of previous legal solutions when it comes to the Development Fund, and especially when it comes to implementing economic policy in the broadest sense of that word... Our political confidence is that so far we, or those who have signed the implementation of the EU's economic and financial doctrine, have only met certain requirements and orders by the Brussels administration. It consisted of the following: shutting down and winding down domestic banks, fast-tracking of large banks from the EU, accelerated privatisation of companies, liberalisation of imports with a reduction in customs rates, restrictive monetary policy with a course of domestic currency destimulating exporters, creating preconditions for a huge deficit in external trade (which is one of the points of this agenda), shutting down domestic trade chains and opening up the market for the entry of large trade chains from the EU with foreign goods, without contractual provisions that would tie traders to the adequate participation of domestic goods in the transport of goods. Also, monopolization of the market and disabling the competition by other market players, for example, tobacco industry, production, cement sales and the like. A few days ago, we also talked about the pooling of capital in certain hands, through examples that may not be close to this subject, but in a broader context, I can mean the Development Fund, not to repeat. For example, unilateral application of the Trade Agreement with the EU de facto means a loss for the Serbian economy of 267.000,000 euros, not according to the SRS account, but according to a statement by the finance minister from 6 December last year that the Serbian economy could lose exactly that figure by unilateral application of the Trade Agreement and that the recommendation was then to wait until the agreement was applied. Who does he use most? We think it's monopolies. Sam's insight into Miskovic's "Delta" website, in what the company "Delta" deals with, can testify that this unilateral application of the Trade Agreement corresponds to monopolies such as Mr. Miskovic. After all, he confirmed that it was true a while ago. Also, a reduction of state aid, a subsidy for important industries (metal complex, chemical industry, wood processing complex and others); marginalisation of all domestic investment funds, including the Development Fund. I'll explain it later through concrete financial indicators. Also, directing economic operators to the banking system and expensive bank credits, at interest rates of over 20%, rather than economics through the Development Fund, is provided by well-defined credit arrangements with interest rates below inflation levels. Then, the division of the state administration and the red tape of the state apparatus. Again, according to Mr Dinkic, in 2000, the administration numbered 8,000 employees, and now 28,000. That is what financial and economic experts are talking about that should be independent. We've instructed a few names all these days as we deal with economic policy, the Development Fund, the chambers of commerce, foreign trade. What should also be significant, which is meeting the standards imposed by the EU, is a high reference interest rate, as well as a base rate of interest and credit policy, purchases and monopoly of public enterprises and state institutions, deficit financing of the PIO Fund's budget, health insurance. There are other forms of fully unacceptable monetary and financial, economic and credit measures, and we have only touched some economic indicators that testify that the Development Fund has been marginalised so far. We think it caused huge damage to the economic operators, who lost a safe and cheap financier. Almost completely unacceptable, if it weren't sad it would be funny, the provisions of the laws that speak of the Fund as a carrier of economic development, in these circumstances and with previous experience; about a financial institution that encourages the development of small and medium-sized enterprises (we spoke of them earlier); encourages employment and the like. Real life is, in fact, a denial of what this is about. So, the financial authorities (our belief is so, if it were not so likely that this picture would look quite different) were very aware of the provisions of the following laws and other sublegal acts, and we come to the field of very concrete and immeasurable figures. Article 4 The Development Fund Act, therefore, we are talking about a previous legislative solution, which has not substantially changed, provides that the total funds that will be divided will be at 1.5% of the domestic product achieved in the previous year. Just to see what the previous legal solution of the same fund looked like through certain financial indicators. So, just to remind, the Fund's resources, according to the legal solution at the time, were being provided from their own resources, budgets, donations and the like. How much is it really secure? The data for the period 2007 to 2009 indicate that this fund has been consciously neglected and marginalized. So in 2007, the Fund's own funds amounted to fourteen billion dinars, two billion in budget, a total of sixteen billion dinars were realised. The total funding provided for by law, so that was legally prescribed norm, 1.5% of gross domestic product -- about 36,000,000,000 dinars. So this range between 36,000 million dinars and 16,000 million total of realized funds speaks enough. In 2008, seven billion were the Fund's own funds, a budget of 2,780,000,000, total assets realised were 9,780,000,000 dinars. The funds provided for by law, therefore, were obligations, not the ability to choose, 1.5% of gross domestic product, were exactly 41,100,000 dinars. For 2009, according to the legal solution, which is valid until the bill is passed, it also provides for own funds -- eleven billion, budgets -- 3.100,000, and the total funding provided for by law, although 2009 runs – 144.5 billion dinars. So, just the data, that we are not taking 2009 because it is obvious that there are significant shifts from 2007 to 2008 are images of the government's relationship to the Development Fund, and thus towards the development of Serbia's state. These figures show unequivocally that the Development Fund has been invested several times less than it was specified by the provisions of the previous law. Also, Article 61. The privatisation law provides for about 50% of the company's capital sales to be allocated to finance, restructuring and fostering economic development. The national strategy for economic development for the period 2006 to 2012 planned huge funds for accelerated economic development, an increase in gross domestic product with a high share of real economy. The funds for accelerated economic development will be provided from the following sources: budgets again, funds from the Development Fund, privatisation revenues, bank funds, ino-credits, credit funds from international financial institutions, donations and other sources. The growth of the economy between 2006 and 2012 (so it is said about the strategy of economic development) was planned in the range of 6.5% to 12%. That would be roughly, for the sake of comparison, I was the top of the world economy and the world economy. Therefore, these data clearly show, firstly, the deviations from the legal provisions. It may be mildly said that this is completely unacceptable, when it comes to the Development Fund, but it is politically incomprehensible that someone who guarantees the development of the Serbian state's economy, especially in terms of easing the effects of the financial crisis, is signing a derogation from the law of the envisaged norms. With that in mind, when we see the fate of the Development Fund, according to the old law that is still in force, we really don't understand what the further fate of the Development Fund will be. So, acting under instructions, apparently, financial institutions, the architects of monetary and credit and financial policies in Serbia were very consciously violating legal provisions. The funds they had to place in the Development Fund focused on budgets and funds that meant social and therefore political peace, therefore, in the first place public spending. The announced structural reforms in the economy are lagging behind. The economy is mostly privatized. The funds charged in the privatisation process had to be directed towards the opening of new small and medium-sized companies. It's part of the Authority of the Development Fund. Funding, employment and self-employment is also one of the areas of the Development Fund, as well as the development of small-scale co-operatives and similar organisational forms that deliver the best results in such an economy, at such an economic moment. What we can conclude (I suppose, unfortunately, that with this sad and for Serbian citizens, we all agree with the brutal fact) is that privatisation is sold to the capital of enterprises that have produced generations, that the privatisation funds... We have asked several times, as the SRS Parliament Club, to give us precise information where the funds from the privatisation funds are directed, of course respecting the legal obligation that the Development Fund is using these funds, but what is data on privatisation revenues also best talks about the scale of the failure of privatisation. In the privatisation process (this is the data from which counterpart Milorad Buha came) about 1,900 companies were sold through the Privatisation Agency, with the following privatisation funds being realised: 2,400,000 euros in capital value, 1,450,000 euros through the investment programme and 320,000,000 euros for the social programme. During the entire privatisation period, the Development Fund was only a secondary player of economic development, with small and very scarce resources in view of the area of action. Also, what is inevitably and logically imposed as a question is what is the purpose of passing this law when even this previous one, which was not bad under construction, was not implemented in practice. Or, as we have seen based on concrete economic data, there has even been a deviation of what is a legal obligation, which is an inflow of 1.5% of gross domestic product. Unfortunately, you are not the person who has the authority to answer all these questions that we are asking here and it is truly outrageous that the Minister of Economy and Regional Development is not here at this time. This is a very important debate in detail. Some people, however, have tried their best to do their best to make this debate as good as possible, but we have denied the citizens of Serbia, the people of Serbia, who is very afraid for their economic and financial future, even if the messages, at least the debate that should create a clear picture of Serbia in the second half of 2009, when otherwise the world's greatest blow to the global financial crisis is expected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-23-0.u18149	Members of the 5th amendment, identical in content, were submitted by MPs Sulejman Spaho and Dragan Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Todorovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 6th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Acimovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Jorgovanka Tabaković. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Jorgenka Tabaković.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-23-0.u18150	I have submitted an amendment to Article 7 in which this law makes it impossible for the State to invest, through loans and guarantees from the Fund's resources, any investment in its public enterprises or other social enterprises. I called for constitutional equality of property, but defined in the department that treats economic order, and the government tried to challenge my argument, that this introduces an inequality among non-constitutional properties, by telling me that article 82 defines the arrangement and that I should have possibly called on Article 86, which is absolutely not true, because Article 86, yes, bears the title "Equality of property", and in its final sentence, gives the essence of that member of the Constitution, where it says that all forms of property have equal legal protection. The amendment I submitted on behalf of the SNS and the Prosperity Club was not intended to provide Serbia with legal protection or public or social property, but to ensure equal access to incentives, loans and guarantees. That's exactly why I called for article 82. The Constitution. That only speaks of the way you interpret the Constitution, from the angle that suits you. On the other hand, it speaks of the inconsistencies of the Government, which, in the same system of budget funds, was the recapitalisation of the "Comerial Bank", which covered the losses in the Postanska Savings Bank (and on two occasions) made by some of them still in prison, and some of them are defending themselves from freedom of use of public funds. At the time of the economic crisis, it is absolutely ridiculous and irresponsible to explain that it cannot be invested in public enterprises, when all the governments you want to look like are doing exactly the opposite. What is visible from recent examples and speaks for your inconsistencies is that because of the response to the financial crisis in the adoption of the Deposit Insurance Agency Act, we gave the Government the right, based on the opinion of the National Bank (which is inevitable, not because it takes care of the interests of the citizens or that it implements the economic policy of the Government, but for absolutely opposite reasons), to enter into the property of banks where the state has no action, and with an explanation that if they disrupt financial stability on the market, the state can do anything. So the state shows up as the owner where it's supposed to fit. In this case, this interest of the state is completely opposed to the interests of citizens who are employed in these public enterprises and where it would be fully useful and justified sometimes to intervene with incentives. It is unacceptable for the state to represent individuals who reject such amendments and make legal solutions of interest that are known to them at the moment, and who create reasonable doubt about the abuse of public interest and the fact that they are working not in favour of these citizens but in some others. I will take the opportunity, as I speak of this amendment, just to say: the only test that speaks about the expertise of the one who works at the Guarantee Fund or the Development Fund is whether guarantees or loans are charged by some financial institution. The burden of the Guarantee Fund, and now the Development Fund, will fall guarantees over two billion, is the best test of the expertise of these people who worked in it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-23-0.u18151	The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Duvnjak. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branimir Djokić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by National MP Natasa Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljubomir Kragovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Marina Ragush.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-23-0.u18152	I wasn't fast enough again, but since I'm talking about amendments to this bill that my colleagues made, I'm going to refer to Article 8 and Article 9. It is very important for the public in Serbia to say what these members are referring to. Article 8: "The Fund is obliged to maintain a capital base of at least fivem euros for a stable and secure business. "Article 9: "The Fund can be granted funds for capitalisation and work in accordance with the law governing the budget of the Republic of Serbia. The Fund's recapitalisation dynamics are determined by the government on a proposal from the ministry responsible for economic and regional development affairs. "Article 10: "The Fund's funds are used in accordance with the law, statute and annual work programme of the Fund. "It was necessary to find out what the Fund's annual work programme, which is a financial structure and which institutions are kept in mind when it comes to budgeting. Why? Because we think that the financial crisis is really going to cause a huge problem in the world. I can really say this for the citizens of Serbia, realizing that you are not competent to answer a large number of questions that appear under this law. Unfortunately, Mr Dinkic is not present. It's almost become a belligerent to him. I can't determine who's responsible for this situation. I don't want to assume, I just want to read concrete facts. I hope that, in some future period, there will still be more sense for the organisation of such discussions and that the competent ministers will be in a position to respond to such an important debate as this debate in particular. What should also be said, and based on many analyses and polls, is what citizens think about the government's work itself, and so on the Development Fund, or economic stability. It is very important to know, based on a survey by the International Republican Institute, that 56% of citizens think Serbia is going the wrong way. That's really a very significant percentage. This is a research done by the International Republican Institute, not the SRS. Also, what is very important to mention here is what Serbian citizens were most interested in, and they did not have the opportunity to hear (this is also one example of when we talk about such important legislative proposals by the competent ministers), as Serbian citizens expect the government to deal most with unemployment, economics, living standards and corruption. Perhaps every debate on such or similar topics should begin with only one question – when will Serbian citizens have insight into how and how their money is spent, when will Serbia, when will the Serbian state parliament receive the final bill? That may be the only question all 250 MPs should ask themselves first, and then all of us before the citizens of Serbia. It is inadmissible, and you will admit that it is entirely imbalanced with the practice of serious states, that taxpayers, which, based on the decisions of the state apparatus, pay huge funds and a full budget of Serbia, do not know where these funds are spent because someone directly violates what is a legal obligation, which is transparency in business and transparency of final accounts and audit of final accounts. We don't have them. Most often we get the impression that we act in the following way – we talk as a wind, we repeat the same thing, we talk about the same problems, because the situation doesn't change when it comes to big problems, and it reacts by moving to the next point of the agenda. That's what we think a picture of the government's relationship with the citizens is enough. It will certainly, we are fully convinced, that it costs you dearly, in terms of the electoral will of the citizens, because you failed to do what you should have done. Of course, I don't speak to you personally or to your ministry, but you're the only government official. If you were me, I'd probably hear more criticism, too. But the only thing we're trying to understand all this time, in terms of the exhausting work of Parliament, is that it is necessary to adopt so many legislative proposals, in the context of the EU's approach, and these same laws are ignored by the representatives of the proposings, and in this agenda we have all those topics that are more and less interested in citizens who will face their existential crisis very quickly... Instead of looking at how to make the state of Serbia more economically acceptable to the country, which will adequately combat the crisis that has affected it, rather than getting into the bankruptcy situation because it has become too long and will not be able to pay for it, rather than going into a situation where an Argentine script can happen to it, we are actually talking to ourselves here. That's what's totally unacceptable. I really expected Mr Dinkic to be there, that we would enter interactive communication and that we would be able to exchange these arguments that we represent, and 56% of Serbian citizens say the government is going in the wrong direction. For free reason. They do not need to know any of this bill's proposals, they absolutely need not be interested in how the Fund will fill its budget, how the Serbian state budget will be maintained, how they will survive one day, how they will react in a situation where they lose their jobs (and in Serbia live on multiple monthly incomes and can only survive) in which they will be able to pay loans because they no longer have regular incomes, and they are in charge of cars, apartments, consumer credits, cards are chronically all in an unauthorized minus, and that is the fact. In that situation, we see that these 56% of the people, which is a huge number, are going to run out of adequate response. It's the most tragic fact possible. In the context of the Development Fund's funds, it is not clear how it is thought to be filled in by law when we know that the total budget is, in the context of the equal regional development of cities and municipalities in 2009, before this rebalancing which is tomorrow on the agenda, 40,000,000 dinars; after reducing costs to local self-government, that is about 25,000,000,000. This means that at one point, the Serbian government has made a decision to reduce the transfer to local self-government by 15 billion. In the context of the overall situation, this has caused great rebellion for all those who exercise power, most often not Serbian radicals, but I am talking about people living in these cities and municipalities of Serbia and who should survive, because local authorities have faced an indecisive problem – how to maintain a level of life, not development, but an existing level of life for the inhabitants of these cities and municipalities. For example, in the municipality of Kocelje, the budget is 178,000,000 dinars, half of which is 83,000,000 and comes from the republican budget. A similar situation is with the Majdanpek municipality, whose budget is 330,000,000 dinars, and from the Republic's budget comes 160,000,000. The city of Leskovac, 56,000,000 dinars, receives significantly less from the republican budget. What is almost incomprehensible is how it is thought that this reduction in the transfer of any of the local self-government implements what it is owned, and it is not clear how the Development Fund thinks it contributes to a more balanced development in this context, i.e. a reduction in the poverty rate and growth of the unemployed. What is a very dramatic data, and official data, and very fresh, comes from the governor of the NBS Mr. Jelasic. He warned on April 15th this year that the number of companies with blocked accounts is increasing from day to day. He said Serbian finance and economy will have to wait for May to get the expected support of the International Monetary Fund. We have seen that the requirement for the budget deficit to be below 3% of GDP, which means for Serbia a radical cut that will affect the largest number of people who are employed in the state apparatus without being responsible, but rather the state has made them such an atmosphere and such an climate. The governor then said that every day, the number of enterprises whose accounts are blocked are above 57,000 and is about 60,000. The amount that Serbian companies owe has reached 234,000,000,000 dinars, which is why their accounts have been blocked, up 13.6% compared to the end of 2008. The governor says half of the 60,000 companies have been blocked for more than two years. I quote: "To be open, there are no days that the number of blocked companies and the number of amounts has not increased, from January 1st to today. "Better liquidity in Serbia is expected after 11 May, according to the first NBS man, when it decides to grant a three billion-euro loan to Serbia. According to his expectations, the arrangement should have a certain effect through the reduction of pressure on course and inflation, and otherwise monetary stability is clearly seen to us, firstly, by targeting the euro rate against the dinar, because this means exceptional disturbances and monetary instability. If, as Governor Jelasic said on 11 May, the Committee approves an arrangement with Serbia, it will mean an approach (and this is important to hear what is further) by the necessary financial means both of the IMF itself and other international financial institutions. These are official data from the Serbian state, which is not optimistic at all for this year 2009, that many projects and businesses expect a three-billion-dollar loan to unblock accounts, so that some people finally begin to receive their regular monthly incomes. In the context of balanced regional development, and yet also the budget of the Development Fund, and the implementation of the activities foreseen by this law is also an official statement by the government's representative. It is about Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, the minister of infrastructure, who responded to a reduction in the position, and the work on building Corridor 10, which also stands. Credits were taken a certain number of years ago, interest on these loans are paid regularly. It is the view of the SRS that public works can mean opening jobs, hiring a large number of people and, in some ways, overcoming the financial crisis. It is also very important that the National Infrastructure Council is given information showing that 10.1m euros and 85,000 euros for land expropriation for priority shares are needed to design priority shares on the highway. The 85,000 euros for expropriation are actually the biggest problem. The country around Corridor 10 on that road is mostly, as it usually happens, in the hands of people who have learned in time that a significant traffic station will be built there and that it will raise the land price, so the government now has a problem with expropriation. For example, Mr Mrkonjic says that the expropriation from Horgos to Novi Sad is complete, but a tour around Belgrade takes about 40,000,000 euros and it is not finished. A loan was obtained for the construction of 115,000 euros, 50,000 for the route and 65,000 for the loop. For the entire expropriation at 250km along the highway to Corridor 10, it takes 130,000,000 euros. So, when the budget was made, as Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic says, by mistake, this amount is listed in the dinars and hence part of the problem. These are all concrete examples of representatives of the government, who are telling us about the totally arrogant and irresponsible behaviour of the people who have faced a financial crisis. Also, this picture right here, where the minister in charge was supposed to sit, speaks enough of it in favor. The saddest thing is that one opposition MP has been talking about this for days, and in return he has not received any more concrete official information that would either challenge and deny, or confirm that Serbia has found itself on the wrong path, with the wrong people. As we heard today, I can only repeat this, a logical question is really being raised whose interests are being exercised by the government, because on the basis of all of this (later we will deal with some other examples related to other legal solutions) it seems that the government in Serbia does not exercise the interests of the Serbian people, but rather the interests of strong financial institutions. Also, one of the major areas that has been completely neglected, and is also entering the area of the Development Fund's operation, and yet on the basis of official data, it is agriculture. Minister Sasa Dragin said that due to the planned budget cuts by 26% of the ministry, half of the funds will be missing to meet all obligations, and because of the layoff of people who have to make more significant projects. It is also very important that the Ministry of Agriculture, which inherited the very difficult situation, will not be able to implement the plan of activities that they have set out for this year, and strategic investment in agriculture is almost impossible to talk about with all these economic indicators. Mr. Dragin says - I got a warrant from the government, so a few days ago I had to leave 25 people out of work and existence. It was hard for me to do that, and in the next period more people will be out of work, more than 90 employees will no longer work at the Ministry. The number of people who have to fire is about 8,000 by the end of the year, and 1,000 is waste, if I understand the data correctly, on local self-government. It is an additional pression to a really bad situation when it comes to the Fund for Development, first of all, when it comes to economic and financial stability and finally to the existence of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I can only conclude that the people who signed the credit and monetary and economic policy of the Serbian state met EU requirements, but did not meet the hopes and expectations of Serbian citizens. I wish Mr Dinkic were in your shoes, so this atmosphere would probably be more pleasant to you. You are not even in charge of thinking about this topic, in a professional sense, but we believe that during the debate on budget rebalancing, we will be able to hear from those who own whether the opposition and the SRS were right when it alarmed the Serbian public that it was too late with concrete measures and financial crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-23-0.u18153	National MP Jelena Budimirovic submitted to the 9th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Jorvanka Tabaković.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-23-0.u18154	The basic member of the law says the Fund can be granted funds for recapitalisation and work in accordance with the law governing the budget of the Republic of Serbia, means that funds from the budget can be allocated to it, and that this dynamic of the recapitalisation of the Fund is determined by the government, on a proposal from the ministry responsible for economic affairs and regional development. So, Mladjan Dinkic, as Minister of Economy and Regional Development, will decide when and how much budget funds should be channeled towards the Development Fund. We added only a fraction of the sentence to the amendment: "and in line with the adopted economic policy objectives". I can't understand, and I can't even call it stubborn to refuse all amendments, and I can't even call that capitalization in line with the objectives of economic policy that you define as government. I can't call it stubbornness, but by privatizing the state and the Fund for personal purposes. Why do I say that? Could someone explain the change in Mr Dinkic's attitude and the privatisation of the combinations in Bor, by Austria's "Atheque"? How can he today participate in buying a minority package of shares, and only a month ago are the terms "unaware buyer, who has no money" used and that customer, "Attek", can no longer be a buyer in that privatisation? In the regulations absolutely nothing has changed, nor has the government, as far as the public knows, changed anything. Is it lawful for a man to determine how the law and the rules under which the government works will apply? So what do the government do, and the laws, and the rules and the memorandum, and the economic policy at all? I ask you to consider whether you really think that provision is too high for the recapitalisation of the Development Fund to be done in accordance with the objectives of economic policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-23-0.u18155	National MPs Tomislav Ljubenović, Vesna Maric, Dusan Maric, Goran Mihajlović, Dobrislav Prelic, Ognjen Mihajlović, Aleksandar Martinović, Milorad Krstin and Momir Markovic submitted to the 10th amendment, which is identical in content. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 10 of the amendment, identical by content, the MPs Marko Milenković, Vladija Milojković, Sreto Perić, Gordana Pavnović-Milosavljevic, Mirko Munjic, Bojan Mladenovic, Sladjan Mijaljević, Paja Momčelov, Ljubisa Petkovic, Milan Nikolic, Dusanka Pljević, Dejan Mirović, Gordana Pop-Lazić and Vitomir Plužarević were submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 10th Amendment, identical by content, were submitted by MPs Zoran Popovic, Milovanovic and Vjerica Radeta. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 10 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 10 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 10 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Škrbić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 10th amendment was submitted by MP Mico Rogovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is an international MP, Mico Rogovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-23-0.u18156	Madam Chairman, fellow Members of Parliament, you, Madam Minister, are the third minister here on this set of laws and I don't know how to behave in principle and discuss amendments to this set of laws anymore. The mandated face of the SNS parliamentary group, a colleague of Mr Jorvanka Tabakovic, said the aim of the SNS parliamentary group was to be met, i.e. Go ahead, Serbia, was to fix the amendments a set of these laws, as well as this law relating to the Republic of Serbia Development Fund. You had no understanding of it, as it almost happened in this assembly's convocation that any amendment, regardless of who puts up with it, whether from the opposition or my colleagues from the post, was accepted by the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development. This proves that everything provided for in this law, which primarily refers to the decentralisation of finance and economy, that is, even regional development, which is the goal of all these years, for those of you who are only replacing yourself in certain garneries of government, has really not proved any point in practice. You state that one of the objectives of this fund is the balanced economic and regional development of certain areas in Serbia. If that were the case, we wouldn't really be in a situation like this right now, if certain areas of the Republic of Serbia were still completely underdeveloped and more and more, thanks to your measures, and they should be stimulating, they are experiencing the fate of totally undeveloped areas. We know that in 2003, some ministers pointed out that they did not come to this country to cash their brains for such small salaries at the head of certain ministries. These days, it is the current story of the governor that the austerity measures of the Republic of Serbia should not touch its sector, that is the sector of the National Bank of the Republic of Serbia. It's a well-known story that ministers, besides their so-called small wages, dealings and other things. These are advisory roles in various funds, including probably the Development Fund. In view of this, we have a situation that the Minister of Economy and Regional Development is by automation and the Chairman of the Governing Board of the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia and, concerning the amendment that I have submitted to Article 10, the incomprehensible explanation of this amendment is precisely this contradiction and what results from the Law on the Development Fund. The amendment adds Article 5, which reads as follows: "The Fund's Management Board shall submit a special annual report on the funds transferred to the Fund in accordance with the Budget Law, which the Fund has not placed until the end of the financial year, to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia within the deadline set for the submission of the final account of the Republic of Serbia's budget. You for this amendment and for some of the following amendments that my colleagues from the Prosperity Group, Serbia-SNS, will defend you had no understanding, i.e. The government is not in charge, with individual ministries, and especially the Ministry of Finance, but that certain measures and actions, related to this law, can only be carried out by the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development. Just because the chairman of the Governing Board of the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia is the Minister of Economy and Regional Development, the contradiction of your explanation in the reasons for not accepting the amendments is indeed recognizable. In this amendment, I wanted to point out that responsibility to the use of public funds, which, according to certain and envisaged dynamics, should be transferred, should be raised to a higher level. We know that this Fund, or the Law on the Development of the Republic of Serbia, was adopted for the first time in 1992, with amendments in 2005, and that this Fund has existed for over 16 years. I must stress, given that this law provides for the Fund to exist mainly on budget funds, what if from 1992 and 1993 to today these funds were properly used and the household resources were available to them, what would the Fund have today and what size would they have? Probably bigger than the stakes of some banks. By this law, you are trying in a certain way to justify all these, for example, manipulations by 2009 and to put everything that has been done so far in the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia and to start a new era with five million euros in budgets and with all the funds currently available to the Fund. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-23-0.u18157	The 11th Amendment was submitted by MP Suleiman Spaho. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Todorovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Marina Toman submitted to Article 13 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Government has submitted to Article 15 of the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. National MP Milan Veselinovic submitted to the 15th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Vukicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Radojko Obradović and Arsen Đuric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Milos Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-23-0.u18158	Madam Chairman, I think you should have informed us in good time that we have no more direct transmissions, but that this assembly session is going on a delayed transfer that will be somewhere after 23 hours. This was necessary to transfer, that is, that all participants in the discussion and present here know, and also because of the citizens, because I assume that a certain number of citizens will be watching the delayed transfer of the assembly session. I will explain the amendment submitted by the Democratic Party of Serbia, namely the MPs Radojko Obradovic and Arsen Djuric. The amendment concerns Article 15(3), which is amended and reads as follows: "The government appoints the President and members of the Management Board". We have explained that it is necessary for the Government to appoint the President and members of the Management Board. The question is how could the law be applied if a new ministry law changes ministry resolutions. The government oversees the Fund's work through the adoption of the programme's proposal and adoption of annual reports, so ministers do not need to be members of the Management Board. For these reasons, we also propose to delete this item 4. The adoption of the proposed solutions, i.e. by amending Article 15, by amending Article 3 and deleting Article 4, shall ensure the separation of decision-making and supervision functions of the Fund, as provided for in the provisions of Article 22. The draft law, the supervision of the legality of the Fund's work, is carried out by the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development. For the sake of the public, I'll read what's in article 15. Proposal for a Law on the Development Fund. Article 15(3) states: "The chairman of the Management Board is acting as the minister in charge of economic and regional development affairs", and Article 4 states that members of the Management Board are in office: the minister in charge of finance affairs, the minister in charge of labour and social policy affairs, the minister in charge of infrastructure affairs and the minister in charge of trade and services affairs. The law says the Management Board has a president and four members. Hypothetically, to explain what can happen: to shut down one ministry of these here, for example, shut down the Ministry of Infrastructure and join the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development; the automatic law is no longer valid, because we no longer have four members and president of the Management Board, but we only have four members. I'm also using the time the DSS has. What matters in this law is primarily the function of the Development Fund. First of all, the Development Fund should have the function of a balanced regional development and the funds of the fund should primarily be, as the law says, aimed at fostering even development, including the development of underdeveloped areas, promoting the business of legal persons and entrepreneurs in the Republic of Serbia, promoting competitiveness and liquidity of the Republic of Serbia's economy and promoting employment. The effects of the funds that this fund approves should be directed in this direction right now. However, we already have a situation that the government's specific measures already target these funds on additional Fund programmes, which are: the economic subsidisation programme, the credit subsidy programme for the maintenance of liquidity and the financing of permanent crafts and the subsidisation programme for consumer credits. We have a problem because, according to the information we have, the largest number of applications for these loans is for liquidity funds. This is symptomatic, and there is also a reason for this – out of 112,000 business entities around 60,000 businesses are in a blockade. Every month, the number of economic operators in the blockade increased: on April 1st, we had 59,295 operators in the blockade, and on March 1, we had 58,657 operators in the blockade. Practically this means that, on average, 800 - 900 economic operators are monthly increasing the number of operators in the blockade. I am interested in why Mr Vujadinović, who is also an businessman, does not participate in this debate, because this is specifically about economic operators, the liquidity of business entities, investments, or funds that need to accelerate the economic development and normal business of certain business entities, which entails a more balanced regional development, as well as an increased number of employees. If we now have statistical data that this number of employees decreases from month to month by, on average, 10,000 workers, it means that we have one situation which, in addition to this global economic crisis, is primarily due to the inability of this government, because this government, by all these measures and by delaying certain measures, shows how incompetent it is. Let's not talk about how unequal the government is and how it relates to the crisis and everything that citizens are suffering right now. This shows, in particular, that during this debate on a very important set of laws, we have practically a "flight change" of certain ministers: first the Deputy Prime Minister in charge of economics and regional development appeared, so she was the Minister for the NIP, now we have a Minister for Telecommunications, and we expect some valid answers at the end of this discussion. National MP Marina Ragush has brought out here data that the Development Fund is not being charged and there is not as much funding as is foreseen by the law, because it should have one and a half percent of the social product. That's about 44,000,000,000, and here, at least for now, they're dealing with some figures from 11,000 to 13,000 million dinars that are given to economic operators. It's interesting why it's happening. It happens precisely because, apparently, it was waiting for this law to be passed, to name people on the board of directors, who would have these resources in the way that they fit them and then to fill that fund in that way. I will remind you, I also said in principle that in 2000, I resigned as Head of the Rasin Management District (this is well known by Mr. Srdjan Milivojevic, who comes from our neighborhoods) because credits were not given according to the criteria established by the strategic team, which was appointed and received consent from the government, and according to the recommendations of the strategic team to which credit should be granted, but were granted by party and relative, or some personal ties. As the ruling majority behaves with money, I will remind you of the interview given by Mrs. Verica Kalanovic "Blica" on January 5th, where she said "I do not give money for political projects". In the follow-up to the interview, she said, "I gave 50 million dinars to build kindergartens in Jagodina, but this is not support for Dragan Markovic Palma, but in Pomoravlje, which is characterized by low birth rate, has significantly increased the number of children after that." First, the very way the NIP minister speaks to the public shows that one political party, i.e. the ruling majority, treats people's money. No one can personally give money and say "I gave money", but only institutions, or those who are empowered, can through certain decisions by those institutions. I think this amendment has been fully explained and that the ruling majority should have heard more about this and accepted it. PRESIDENT: The People's MP, Jadranko Vukovic, submitted to Article 15 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Babic. Does anyone want a word? The word has a folk MP named Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-23-0.u18159	Madam Chairman, please inform those of the citizens that there is no direct transfer of the Assembly, but that it will be delayed, because I am here all the time and I have no such information. On the occasion of the amendment to Article 15, I would like to say the following. Since Article 4 of the Law defined that the state of Serbia owns 51% of the shares of this fund, we, by amendment to Article 15, have determined that "the maximum number of board members can be nine, of which five are representatives of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. to satisfy at any moment the conditions laid down in Article 4(3) of this Act." Since it is foreseen that domestic and foreign legal and natural persons can enter the fund, we want to retain, conditionally speaking, the government of the Republic of Serbia to 51% and at the same time finally introduce a standard of optimal number of board members. So it's not right to write in an explanation, you prejudge the solution that the maximum number of members will be nine. Everyone who knows "e" from the economy knows that the maximum number for managing some team is from seven to nine; not seven, here, we adopted nine as the legacy of economic theory and practice. It would really be okay to start acting rationally at this point in time of awareness of the financial economic crisis. Do you know what gives us the right as a legislative authority, since you have challenged that right, to propose to the Fund such a solution? From the member where the state works, through the budget we adopt, the recapitalisation of the Development Fund. Some who speak of this law will be warned to read the 2005 Law, under which the Development Fund does not have budget funding. His privatisation revenues have been cut off and he only has a commission to collect the services he's doing for the state. These were recommendations from the IMF, and there is no direct budget financing, and there is a capitalisation talking in favour of the SNS proposal and the Prosecution Club, Serbia, to adopt such an amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-23-0.u18160	On the 16th amendment, which according to the evaluation of the Legislative Committee on its own content was submitted by the MPs: Dragan Zivkov, with correction, Nikola Žutić, Milan Avramović, Milorad Krstin, Boris Aleksic, Slobodan Vuković, Zoran Popović, Petar Jojić, Ognjen Mihajlović, Goran Mihajlović, Elena Bozo-Taljan, Nikola Savić, Sulejman Spaho, Tomislav Ljubenović, Jovan Damjanović, Lidija Dimitrovović, Momcilo Duvnjak, Sreto Perić, Vladija Milojković, Lidija Vukić, Nataša Jovanovic, Nataša Jovanović, Filip Štović, Dragan Ać Ać, Miljan Radovović, Milovar Pljužarević, Milan Ževinović, Marina Tomanović, Ljubmir Krajković, Jadrankomir Kragović, Jadrank, Jadranka Živić, Živić, Živić, Žlažović, Milić, Milić, Žović, Žvić, Žalić, Žvić, Milić, Žlažvić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 18 of the amendment, which, according to the evaluation of the Legislative Committee, is identical, were submitted by MPs Nikola Zutic, Boris Aleksic and Dragan Acimovic and Elena Bozic-Talian. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 18 of the amendment, which according to the evaluation of the Legislative Committee, were submitted by the MPs Milorad Buha, Dušanka Plecevic, Radica Jocic, Vesna Marić, Momcilo Duvnjak, Ljubomir Kragović, Dusan Marić, Vladan Jeremic, Sredo Perić, Milorad Krstin, Branimir Djokić, Tomislav Ljubenović, Zoran Krasić, Gordana Pavnović-Milosavljevic, Ljubisa Petković, Natasa Jovanovic, Momir Marković, Jovan Damjanović and Lidija Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 18 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by MP Jorgovanka Tabaković. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Jorvanka Tabaković.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-23-0.u18161	Article 20 of this Act regulates the appointment of an auditor in the process of reviewing the books held by the Development Fund. The amendment I submitted on behalf of the SNS parliamentary club - Forward Serbia is that the Fund hires an external auditor not only from the list of internationally recognised auditors, but also from a domestic auditor from the list of auditors whose reports have not been disputed in court proceedings for the past five years. Do you even need an explanation for this amendment? If you had an insight into the Agency for Business Registers of Financial Reports of these foreign recognised auditors that you're promoting here, you'd see how little here, just to feel sorry for them, to earn income and show in business books. When you compare them with the business books of business auditors, you are simply surprised, as an economist, that these small domestic auditors, who have no disputed audit reports in court proceedings or, God forbid, break the privatisation contracts to show great profits in relation to all other profits in any type of services, consulting and any other which are currently modern and current. In Serbian language, we allow foreign auditors to make extremely good money, not to show it as a profit and not to pay taxes to this country, which we are allegedly all concerned about; you, apparently, and we from the opposition, even if I are responsible for myself, are really real and in a way that can be applied in law. So I'm really asking you to give an opportunity to domestic auditors who have not been embarrassed by unprofessionalism. Let them participate in the review of the Fund's report, which I will give you one key argument. The remarks on the business books of which the foreign auditor carried out even one of the opposition party's MPs, which was the following: there is one capital, some unnamed, whose revaluation is not carried out. International accounting standards, which are one of the barrels for foreign auditors, do not know the term "social property" and they, without knowing social property, have commissioned the Development Fund to stop the revaluation of this type of property, so that they will later make it an objection and that they can provide some restrictive conditions for the Fund to bring, determine, etc. So, in the revision of the Fund's books, participation would have to be taken by someone who knows not only our history, but our economy and our accounting. I would really ask you to reconsider adopting this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-23-0.u18162	Member of the 20th amendment was submitted by MP Igor Becic. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by Parliamentarian Igor Becic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-23-0.u18163	Ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues, on behalf of the Prosperity Group, I have submitted an amendment to Serbia-SNS, wishing to reduce the impact of a party on the Development Fund, which reads: "To carry out the annual review of the financial reports, the Fund is hiring an external auditor from the list of internationally recognised auditors. The external auditor shall draw up a report and give its opinion on whether the annual financial reports are in accordance with international standards of financial reporting, i.e. international accounting standards, the law governing accounting and audits, and whether they truly and objectively show the financial position of the Fund, the results of the operations and cash flows for that year. "Article 3, which is the subject of my amendment, reads: "The report in Article 2 of this article shall be submitted to the Management Board and the Ministry responsible for economic and regional development affairs." That's where I predicted the post-point 3 would add "and the Ministry of Finance" and that's what I'd like to explain. The finance ministry must have control over the Fund's work, which includes the obligation to submit audit reports, annual and financial reports, because the Fund for Development cannot be left behind, and the funds to be placed through it, at the mercy and mercy of the G17, whose tendency is to put all financial flows in Serbia under control. We can see that all the G17 ministers worked out about this set of laws. By putting under the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Regional Development of many ministries, they took their responsibilities, including employment, tourism, finance, the Development Fund; we see now and the subject of this law, the unification of the Development Fund and the Guarantee Fund. Budget funds are being placed through this fund and I think the Ministry of Finance must have an insight into the auditor's reports. We've seen before practice that loans that go through these and similar funds go according to the party principle. The criterion is that it has to be a member of G17. We also see that Mr Dinkic, Minister of Economy, as chairman of the Management Board of another fund wants to be under his control, and we also see a ridiculous explanation why this amendment is not accepted, where the government says "Amendment is not accepted for reasons that it is not legally possible for the government to directly oversee the work of the Fund. The government oversees the Fund's work through the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, which provides the government with a report on the Fund's work every six months. "So it is not possible, according to the government, that the Ministry of Finance is monitoring, and it is possible that the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development is doing so. Here they say that, practically, the Ministry of Finance is government and it does not have the opportunity to receive reports, and that the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development can be delivered a report on the Fund's work every six months, which they then deliver to the government. This explanation is completely unclear to me, and I suppose it's also to my colleagues. On the occasion of this article, my colleague Mrs. Jorvanka Tabakovic said a lot, and I don't think I have much to say yet, because she explained it very well, but here we see another G 17 attempt to put another part of the financial flows of the Republic of Serbia under her control. I think this amendment must be accepted, that the Ministry of Finance may also have insight into the work of this fund. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-23-0.u18164	Does the word wish for MP Tomislav Nikolic? Members of the 20th amendment, which are identical in content, were submitted by MPs Aleksandar Martinovic, Goran Mihajlovic and Ognjen Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 22 of the amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 22 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Sladjan Mijaljevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 22 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marko Milenkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 22 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vlad Milojkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 22 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Mladenovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 24 of the amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Spasojevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 25 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Antic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-23-0.u18165	Article 25 speaks of the fate of the Trust Fund staff and provides for the discretionary law of the Fund, I suppose some director or perhaps even the chairman of the Fund's Management Board, to determine the number of employees that will be transferred from the Guarantee Fund to the Fund. We predicted that there was some criterion for selecting employees, so we thought it best to say that whoever takes over the workers doesn't say how much or who will determine how much it takes, takes into account the assessment of their working performance in the last two years. The government, which proposed a law under which Mladjan Dinkic and G17 Plus will decide for themselves who to take over, without any criteria, explaining why it rejects our amendment, says: "The amendment is not accepted because the proposed criteria in the amendment are not precise enough and would require a more detailed definition of the working performance of the employees, which is not the subject of this law, but an internal act. "Why doesn't the government tell us why she didn't foresee any criteria? The criteria we foresee by government are not precise enough and it is better not to have any criteria, but to have one that is not precise enough, because no criteria is decided by an in-coherent body, again Mladjan Dinkic. Then what are they gonna do? Then (where is this colleague who praised these tests, there is no) going to introduce tests that, as in the previous case, will be conducted by the Croatian firm. One of the questions will be – was your Croatian language or mathematics harder? It was in vain that the employees of the Guarantee Fund rebelled and did not want to carry out these tests on this so-called so-called. In Croatian, the tests were completed and their results were valid for G17 plus. Please, gentlemen, here, there's no one from G17 plus, stop that company G17 plus while it's still time, because when it's little it can stop, and if it pulls behind you, you'll go too. Simply, the people can't forgive you if you don't stop them in time. I can stop them, but we need choices, and you can do it without a choice, so choose.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-23-0.u18166	The 25th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Vujadinovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Dragan Vujadinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-23-0.u18167	Dear colleagues, from the remaining small auditorium, my amendment is very simple, and it concerns workers, i.e. employees of the Guarantee Fund, who will not be taken over by the Development Fund. Their social programme severances are scheduled to be regulated under the Fund, and my amendment says they are regulated from the Republic of Serbia's budget, with a basic motto that the Fund's free cash potential is not reduced in this way. I am also in favour of it not being reduced, this free capacity of the Fund, not based on the risk-based placements made conditionally by the Guarantee Fund, which was spoken of by counterpart Tabakovic, who is estimated at about a billion and a half. Therefore, the Fund should not be free of charge, which is placed at rates of 1 to 3%, to threaten, or to reduce the payment of compensation to employees who are not to be taken over from the Guarantee Fund, or the risk-based discounts of the Guarantee Fund. I don't think that it's economically comprehensive, and I think it should be regulated by budget donations, because in this way, the substance of the Development Fund -- which I repeat, is placed at the lowest interest rates of five years, i.e. for investment loans starting for one year and for permanent crafts for two years with a start of nine months -- those funds that are gold for the economy, would be preserved and not spent. It is an amendment and I call on Members to vote in favour of my amendment, and I will certainly vote in person because I consider it economical. One more sentence. The Development Fund, I've already said, with 50 employees, had an annual discount of 12.7 billion and about 160,000,000 costs. So he had a placement as large commercial banks, with several times fewer employees. I think it's a very efficient institution, it's been a trial of time, the director has been, for nine years, the director, he's been through all these changes in government, changes in parties, and he's probably proven that it's an effective institution. We shouldn't play and experiment without need, as far as the Development Fund is concerned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-23-0.u18168	The 26th Amendment was submitted by MP Milan M. Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 27 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Jorgenka Tabaković and Mirko Munjic submitted. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Jorvanka Tabaković.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-23-0.u18169	Article 27 provides for the members of the Supervisory Board of the Fund to terminate the term of office on the date of entry into force of this law. With the amendment that I have submitted to this member, I have literally asked the Government – why do all the authorities continue to exist, only the Supervisory Board is abolished? The Supervisory Board would have to perform its function, in particular during this transitional period until the Guarantee Fund is attached to the Development Fund, and to do what it does not have, and it is necessary: a list of commitments, assets, funds with which the Guarantee Fund is transferred to the Fund for Development, with people, their impact and success, and not tests to decide who will continue to work. Imagine miracles, the government says in its explanation – an internal audit is being introduced and what the Supervisory Board is now going to do when the internal audit is going to do these jobs, so that it doesn't overlap. For those of you who forgot, a week ago, we talked here about ending that SMEKA fund, which also deals with foreign trade, because we have an agency that deals with security of these businesses, and three years these two organizations exist in parallel. Three years didn't seem to mind overlapping, duplicating, and now we've got to cancel the monitoring board now, as much as we do today. Gentlemen, I warn you, in 1996, in this home, in the small hall of that second home, we abolished the audit of the final accounts because someone wanted to abolish the Social Accounting Service, and because it is nowhere known as such, so payment traffic should be transferred to banks, so that several days later someone, and today we know who, as well, got the most extensive social bookkeeping branch office, almost without compensation, the most qualified people, we also know who, foreign banks and those who faked themselves to domestic, like the National Savings, took the highest quality software, where you could see and who was laundering money and who was raising cash and who could control absolutely all the money flows. When I objected as an MP at the time why the Social Accounting Service, or the audit it does as a service, said, would be abolished, and we will introduce a review of the country's final accounts. Since then, we have only since 2005, so only after 7-8 years, passed the Law on the State Auditing Institution, which still, in 2009, has not made any final accounts of this state. Don't make us and my mother believe you'll be doing a job that needs to be done today. With "my mother" and the promise of "I come to you" were also free action, and the arrival of "Fiat," and a better standard, and a greater number of employees and too much. I ask you, with the promise of what is yet to happen and the establishment, do not lift the obligation of the state to manage public funds in a legitimate manner, and the Supervisory Board had it, even in a job description. I urge you to stop the irresponsibility, which you promote in this way by losing control, by not defining the criteria for receiving or firing people, and by acting like someone who wins the election no matter what or how it works. It is not a question of this country whether you will win or lose the elections, the question of the lives of these citizens is what will be left to those who continue to exercise this power. On that behalf, I ask you to accept this amendment to the SNS and the Prosperity Club Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-23-0.u18170	Member of the 30th Amendment was submitted by National MP Pai Momchilov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed the search of the draft law in particular, does the representative of Prime Minister Jasna Matic want a word? No, I don't. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Dear People's MPs, as you know, for tomorrow, 24 April 2009, starting at 10.00 hours, the president of the National Assembly of Ms Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic called for the fifth session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009, with a proposal for the agenda contained in the meeting. Given that the proposed agenda contains draft laws which are necessary as soon as possible to implement the package of measures to combat the economic crisis, in the work of the current session of the National Assembly, which we are currently in, it will take a break until the session begins tomorrow. Accordingly, I am fixing a break in the work of the Fourth Session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009, and you will be later informed about the continuation of that session, that is, on the day on which we end the work for tomorrow's fifth session of the First Regular Session. Thank you.
