ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-18-0.u30674	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment reads: 'In the Law on Free Access to Public Information, in Article 12, the point at the end of the sentence is replaced by a comma and the words are added, 'and will inform him that the remaining documents are not available, with an explanation'. Members of the SNS have provided for the obligation of the public authority to make the requested information unreachable in cases where it cannot make the requested information available, it must also provide an explanation to the applicant for which reasons it cannot provide the requested information. This is particularly relevant when reference is made to other information in a document for which the public authority is not obliged to provide insight into it, or which does not refer to the applicant’s request. By accepting this amendment and by obliging the public authority to provide an explanation to the applicant, it would reduce the possibility of manipulating documents and possible doubts about the correctness of the document, in particular if the information requested is part, for certain reasons, as I said, of an inaccessible document. If we start from the premise that freedom of access to information of public importance is one of the basic indicators of the democratisation of society and the precondition for the achievement of other human rights, it should do its utmost to ensure that the law on the availability of information of public importance is quality written and applicable. As I said, everyone has the right to know, but it is the right in many cases untapped, mostly because there is insufficient awareness of the responsibility of the authorities to the citizens. What is a common case, however, and what concerns is the fact that certain public authorities seek, by arbitrary interpretation of the provisions of the Law on free access to information of public importance, to avoid the obligations and duties they have in accordance with the law, above all, by abuse of those provisions of the Law relating to the exclusion and restriction of freedom of access to information, or a classic example of obstruction of the law, etc. The Institute of Quietness of the Administration, i.e. the situation where the public authority to whom the request has been sent does not respond at all to the request of the applicant. This is something that must not be repeated after the adoption of the law on amendments and additions to the Law on free access to information of public importance. For that reason, we have submitted an amendment, which you should accept. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-18-0.u30675	Anyone else want a word? (No) On Article 1, the amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Rade. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk letter from the Prophet of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-18-0.u30676	Thank you. I'll use the time of the authorized representative. When it comes to the Law on Free Access to Information of Public Meaning, and in 2004, when this Law was passed, and in 2007, when it was amended, and now, for the second time, when this Law was amended, the SRS MPs made objections and views concerning the fact that this, or the law with this name, is necessary, first and foremost, to the citizens of Serbia, because Serbian citizens should know everything that is of interest to the day-to-day functioning of both them and the states of Serbia. Unfortunately, neither the basic law nor the previous changes, nor these changes that we are talking about today, contribute to what is needed, that citizens have real information of public importance and that they have free access to this information. The public of Serbia knows how much the Commissioner for Public Information intervened in relation to the RS government as a competent authority, even addressed Parliament, to draw attention to the fact that even within the frameworks of the law, such as it is, it cannot perform its post. You remember all the times when the Trustee with his services didn't have a proper, or better say, no work room, when he didn't have enough and still doesn't have enough people to participate in the work within the jurisdiction of the Information Commissioner and then citizens who are interested in some information of public importance face an incredible problem when they want to know something. I will remind you of the fact that, somewhere in the last quarter of last year, Mr Dragan Todorovic raised the issue of profits in public enterprises, management and boards of public enterprises. You remember Bojan Krishte and information about his incredibly high profits and bonuses, etc. I remind you that the Ministry of Finance has remained in charge of this parliament, above all, to MP Dragan Todorovic, who requested it, a report from the financial inspection. I remind you of the last working day of the past year, it was December 30th, 2008, when the return-application law changed, so it turned out it didn't change well, when it was on the agenda, and we also talked about when the return-application was changed by the Law on Prosecution, so that it wouldn't collapse the judicial system in Serbia. At the meeting of the National Assembly, Minister Diana Dragutinović was present, and we asked her – when will the MPs receive a financial report on the malversions at the Belgrade Airport, in particular, for Bojan Krist and other members of the leadership and the Management Board of the company? Then Mrs Dragutinovic, there are stenograms who testify about it, said that the report was received and that it should be reviewed, returned, in accordance with the law, to the Airport, that they would eventually place some remarks and that the MPs would receive it in the middle of January 2009. We were already in the second half of November of that same year, and we still haven't received that report we asked of the Ministry. Why am I quoting this example? To draw attention, first of all, to the citizens. If the MPs, who publicly ask for it and who present a series of facts, a series of knowledge of malfeasance, specifically, in this case Bojana Krisht, cannot get the information requested from the competent ministry, then how can a citizen who is interested, because, for example, he is employed in this public enterprise, so he hears what is said, how much does his director get on the name of some bonuses, how many people who never show up in that public enterprise, and how is all malfeasance, and how does someone, say, earn barely 15, 16, at the top of the head of 20,000 dinars, so he's interested in getting the right information, because of his public, or, above all, personal interest and significance?- I'm sorry. Someone like that, believe me, there's no way he's getting that information. Now I'm going to give you an example of a certain Mrs. Jelisaveta Vasilic, where we managed to get through the Information Commissioner to some data, but that trip lasted nine months. It is that we have learned that this certain Mrs. Jelisaveta Vasilic is a member of the Anti-Corruption Council and that at the same time she was a member of the Privatisation Agency, that the lawyer, I have here and certain contracts, will get to know the public about it, and that she received three salaries from the state budget in one period, on three different basis. Why am I bringing this up? Information requested pursuant to Article 15(1) has been requested. The law on free access to information, I wasn't sure that this woman was a member of the DS, but since Mr. Srdjan Milivojevic draws attention that this is not a topic, then it seems to me that she is, because we also had some knowledge from the Anti-Corruption Council. Among other things, in the notice we received it writes – I am using this opportunity to inform you that Jelisaveta Vasilić, a member of the Council, was appointed by the Government of RS, a appointment decision published in the "Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia" 46/2004, since 28 April 2004. Furthermore, Mrs Verica Barac is a signator of this letter, it says, "At the moment of appointment as a member of the Anti-Corruption Council, the RS government's decision above, Jelisaveta Vasilic has already been entered in the Serbian Bar Association Register." A solution on the resolution and appointment of members of the Anti-Corruption Council was published in the Official Messenger and was resolved by Zagorka Golubovic and Nikola Milosevic, and Jelisaveta Vasilic, Prof. Dr. Danilo Šukovic and Prof. Dr. Milic Milovanovic were appointed. When I looked at this "Official Messenger", I saw by chance, on the same side, a decision on the appointment of the president and members of the Commission to co-ordinate the EU accession process and I see that under a regular number of 9 members of this commission, Tatjana Dinkic, head of the Ministry of Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs. This is just by the way, because I noticed. Furthermore, the "Official Messenger" published a decision amending the Council's Decision on the Education of the Anti-Corruption Council, where it is said that the amount of work compensation and the amount of expenditure for the President and members of the Council determines the Council, by its decision, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure on the work and work plan of the Council, and as part of the funds in the RS budget defined for the work of the Council. We have a decision signed by Mrs Verica Barac, which reads: "The amount of monthly fees for the work of members, president and vice-president of the Anti-Corruption Council for the second quarter of 2006 increased, compared to 2005, in line with the growth of the euro value," interestingly, "in relation to the value of the dinar, in amount, for the members of the Council, 43,500 dinars net, for the Vice-President of the Council – 62.250 dinars net, and for the President of the Council – 87,000 net". The monthly cost of President-in-Office of the Council for the second quarter of 2006 also increased from 2005 to 2005, in line with the growth of the euro value relative to the value of the dinar, up to 38,000 net. In a decision to determine earnings for December, Verica Barac, as president of the Anti-Corruption Council, also said that Mrs Vasilic Jelisaveti for December 2008 paid a fee of 43,500 dinar net. There is another very interesting thing, under regular number 9, Vladimir Goati received a fee of 87,000 nets for November and December, and you heard earlier that this amount belonged to the President of the Council, in this case to Mrs Verici Barac, and it is truly amazing on what basis and how this amount could have been obtained by Vladimir Goati. Furthermore, when it comes to Mrs Vasilic, there are many papers here, she is mentioned in one official note signed by the Privatisation Agency, where she is allowed by a member of the SRS, who is on this research team and who has investigated all of this, that she can make an insight into the documentation relating to the GP of the "Trudnik - Construction", where she was consultant to this Mrs Vasilić Jelisaveta and where she provided consulting services to the Privatisation Agency. So, an incredible conflict of interest. Why do I mention "The Worker"? Because yesterday I read here a letter sent by a citizen to the SRS MP, informing us that he had received a court dispute in 1997 with the "Trubnik", that this solution had become executive and that the "Trubnik" owed him 18 salaries, which he had not received to this day, but Mrs Vasilic was getting it neatly. We have here and a contract on consulting services concluded between the Privatisation Agency is still deleted, i.e. the darkened name of Mrs Vasilic. It is said – the consultant will provide services in a period beginning on 1 May 2008 and ending on 31 December 2008. Payment conditions – payment will be made in dinars, in contrast to the euro-expressed fee, by applying the official average exchange rate of the National Bank of Serbia on the day of payment, no later than 20 days after delivery of the invoice, in two copies, to the client coordinator of paragraph 4. The co-ordinator is Mrs Vasilic, but he deleted the amount she received in the name of that fee. The signator of a contract for consulting services with Jelisaveta Vasilic is Mrs. Vesna Djindjic, at the time the director of the Privatisation Agency. We now have the following contract, concluded, also between the Privatisation Agency and Mrs Jelisavete Vasilic, where it is said again that the consultant will provide services, and she is a consultant, in a period beginning on 1 May 2008, until 31 December 2008. On behalf of the services provided, the client will pay the consultant a monthly fee of a net amount of 1,000 and a half euros per month. Of course, and this contract was signed by Mrs. Vesna Ginić. We now have accounts issued by Mrs Jelisaveta Vasilic, where she was paid 1500 euros in name for May 2008, on the basis of one of these two contracts – work on restructuring and tender projects. Which one? Like what? What restructuring? What tenders? It's not here, it doesn't exist, it just exists that she gets 1,500 euros for May 2008. Working on restructuring projects and tenders: "Philip Kljajic" Kragujevac, "PIN" Belgrade, "Gosa" Smederjevska Palanka, "Lola System" Železnik, "Simpo" Vranje, "Calcite Fabrika" Jagodina, for June – amounting to 1500 euros. For July 2008, work on restructuring and tender projects again. It takes a long time to work on these projects, and the workers of "Philip Kljajic" from Kragujevac, "PIN" Belgrade, "Gose" Smederjevska Palanka, "Lola System" Železnik, "Simpa" Vranje, "Fabrics of Cables" Jagodina, "Delisesa" Vladičin Han, "Borelia" from Sombor. How many of them are out of work? How many today in that group of millions hungry in Serbia, and their money, through the budget, gave Mrs Jelisaveti Vasilic as a third profit compared to her incomes. In August 2008, restructuring and tendering again: "Philip Kljajic" Kragujevac, "PIN" Belgrade, "Gosa" Smederjevska Palanka, "Lola System" Železnik, "Simpo" Vranje, "Calcite Fabrika" Jagodina, "Delishes" Vladikin Han, "Boreli" Sombor, amounting to three hundred euros. Working on restructuring and tender projects, in September: "Philip Kljajic" Kragujevac, "PIN" Belgrade, "Gosa" Smederevska Palanka, "Lola System" Železnik, "Simpo" Vranje, "Calcite Fabrika" Jagodina, "Delishes" Vladičin Han, "Boreli" Sombor, 1500 euros for September. For October 2008, also 1500 euros, restructuring and tendering: "Philip Kljajic" Kragujevac, "PIN" Belgrade, "Gosa" Smederjevska Palanka, "Lola System" Železnik, "Simpo" Vranje, "Cube Fabrika" Jagodina, "Delishes" Vladikin Han, "Boreli" Sombor. In November 2008, again, Mrs. Vasilic 1500 euros for restructuring and tender projects: "Philip Kljajic" Kragujevac, "PIN" Belgrade, "Gosa" Smederjevska Palanka, "Lola System" Železnik, "Simpo" Vranje, "Fabrica cables" Jagodina, "Delishes" Vladicin Han, "Boreli" Sombor. In December 2008, Ms. Vasilic, the Agency for Privatisation from the State Budget, paid the amount of 1500 euros, again on the name of restructuring and tender, so this is already the sixth month of restructuring and tendering: "Philip Kljajic" Kragujevac, "PIN" Belgrade, "Gosa" Smederjevska Palanka, "Lola System" Zeleznik, "Simpo" Vranje, "Fabrica cables" Jagodina, "Delis" Vladikin Han, "Boreli" Sombor. Why am I making this example? This is an eclectic example of conflict of interest, because someone who does this kind of work, as a consultant at the Privatisation Agency, is also a lawyer who can represent party participants in these disputes, there have been a lot of disputes in these companies, first of all, labour disputes, because a lot of people are out of work, then, as a cream on cake, he is a member of the Anti-Corruption Council. If someone like this can fight corruption, then it's really an honor, but this isn't about Mrs. Jelisaveta Vasilic, this is about the regime in Serbia, about how corruption is done at every turn, how it is stolen from the pockets of Serbian citizens. This morning I heard that from 85th place of corruption in Europe we arrived at 83rd place, this is the data you received from your dear Europe, that corruption is present in all places, in justice, in education, in health care, in public enterprises the most, and most of all through influential political parties, better say, parties currently in power. And in order for these things not to continue to happen, the SRS thinks it is necessary for all citizens, not to wait nine months, but to get information of public importance faster, because it is one way to prevent corruption in Serbia. But you, gentlemen of the government, don't want to prevent corruption, because the people of power themselves, that is, part of the regime, participates in all these corruption-related jobs, and they don't think about the law being brought into the interest of their own damage, but that by law, as far as possible, they are simmering up their dirty jobs and corruption, which destroys Serbian citizens. Believe me, Serbian citizens, if corruption were rooted out, first of all, at a high state level, when corruption was rooted out within the regime, within public enterprises, you would all live much better, because your dinar, your money, through taxes, through budgets, go not where you should go, where no citizen would be sorry to invest, don't go for the construction of kindergartens, nor for the construction of hospitals, nor for the cure against the current flu, nor for schools, nor for the poor, nor for social giving, for pregnant women, for the birth. At all these levels and many that I have not mentioned daily, the Government is trying to save, that is, announce itself, and we will see what happens through budget rebalancing and through next year's budget. So, it saves itself on the one where every state does everything to protect its citizens maximum, but that's why, when it comes to "drp system," what counterpart Krasic would say, then the representatives of the regime are protected by the laws. We have the law now, we'll have it when you adopt it, and I have no doubt you'll pass this law. We will have a situation that Serbia's public will not be able to get the right information, because any information will be declared either a state secret, or a military secret, or an official secret, especially, Mr Minister, thanks to this law that you have propagated here and which was barely adopted on 31 August last year – on public information. No more citizens can be informed through that law, nor can they know through the Commissioner for Information of public importance what is happening in all spheres of life. They hear on television that we are at 83rd place by corruption in Europe, but they can't officially tell anyone, or off the record, to find out who's doing this, how corruption is done, and when one of these authorities is going to do something. Boris Tadic appeared on TV every few months to promise a decisive fight against corruption, which became common to him. It appears, roughly, on RTS that it has announced it to the public, and what it has done and what it truly intends to do, says these laws that, in fact, open up the possibility of even greater corruption and even greater abuses. Article 1 The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on free access to information of public importance, and this previous presentation was an introduction to the interpretation of amendments that I have submitted to this article, refers to Article 12 of the Basic Act, which says that if the requested information of public importance can be isolated from other information in a document in which the Authority is not obliged to provide insight, the Authority will provide the applicant with an insight into the part of the document containing only the information provided and will inform him that the remaining documents are not available. We said that instead of this supplement – 'it will inform him that the other documents contained are not available', it should say that ''in a way prescribed by this law they will notify him of the reasons for which the remaining documents are not available'. We have explained that the SRS considers that public authorities, in the cases referred to in Article 12 of this Act that I have just quoted, are obliged to inform the applicant of the separation of information solely in the manner prescribed by this law. Why? Because it cannot be left to the Commissioner for Information of public importance, nor to any official, that he chooses which information he chooses, but it must be strictly and clearly prescribed by law, unless we want to continue abuse in this area. What does the Government say in an explanation why the amendment does not accept? For the reasons prescribed by the law that the public authority, in cases where some information cannot be made available, makes a solution to the refusal of the request and that solution makes a written explanation. That's not true. Earlier, you had the opportunity, first of all, to see, when I read this information about a certain Mrs Jelisaveta Vasilic, who received three salaries from the Serbian budget, that we had received one contract on consulting services, concluded between the lady and Mrs Vesna Djindjic, on behalf of the Privatisation Agency, without any solution and without any explanation; only the part where her monthly income stands, was only that part of the copying was covered with white paper, so it is not visible. Mr. Minister, if you truly want to fight corruption, you must allow citizens of Serbia to see into all information of public importance. The more information on corruption and abuses in various state bodies, public enterprises will be available to Serbian citizens, this will, believe, contribute to reducing corruption, reducing crime, and will not only raise Serbia's state to some place above the 83rd post of corruption, which is extremely scary for Serbian citizens, but also enable Serbia's citizens to live a better life. We Serbian radicals are convinced, and we keep telling you that one of the basic reasons why Serbian citizens are bad and hard to live, is that corruption at all levels of government. The reduction of corruption, the reduction of theft, the spending of money on Serbia's citizens pouring into Serbia's budget for the right things, in the interest of Serbian citizens, would help make Serbian citizens live better, if we didn't have a million people below the edge of the existence. This edge of existence was calculated by government officials, a salary of 8,250 dinars. Let's see who, for example, can tell us from the Government of the Republic of Serbia that we can live for a week, let alone a month, with a salary of 8,250 dinars? If corruption was reduced in the state of Serbia, we would not have the terrible fact the media published two or three days ago, that in Serbia, it is official statistics, 300,000 children hungry, or 300,000 children do not have a third meal. Imagine what that third meal could be - a cup of tea, a piece of bread, and possibly some spread on that bread. So 300,000 children don't even have that meal, Mr. Minister, that third meal. These are data provided by the Republic Statistics Institute, which is regularly represented by one of the ministers in your government, who, by the way, from the level of the minister, promotes his new party. I also told him, when he was here, and I will tell him again, this is not a message, but, first of all, for the sake of the public, the minister is not in favour of estimating a bad and difficult situation, it is the minister to propose a solution, to find a solution to overcome such a difficult situation, i.e. such social misery and the economic crisis in which Serbia is located. Your task, as Minister of Culture and Information, Mr. Bradic, is to do everything in your power to make this law in the interests of Serbian citizens. Of course, and to work on changing that terrible public information law, but now I don't want to waste time on it, we talked about it when it was current and Serbian citizens know the SRS' position on it. But we also want the SRS' position on the draft law on amendments and additions to the Free Access Act. Dear Serbian citizens, when this ruling majority in the Assembly adopts this law, you will no longer have any possible information about who is stealing you, who is robbing you. Of course, you know it's the current regime of Boris Tadic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-18-0.u30677	From the time of the Parliament Group, 13 minutes have been used. The time of the mandated representative of the SRS parliamentary group has been fully used. The time available to the Parliamentary Group is 22 minutes and 50 seconds. Anyone else want a word? (No) On Article 1, the amendment, with correction, was submitted by the National MP Aleksandra Jankovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of Parliament Jovan Palalic, Milos Aligrudic and Milica Vojic-Markovic together submitted the amendment to Article 1, with a correction. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojic-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-18-0.u30678	Thank you. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to say a few things very briefly that the citizens of Serbia need to know, first of all, because I see that what we're saying is not particularly important to the ministers. Yesterday, Mr. Minister Milan Markovic came out at one point and never showed up again, so we were afraid he might not be sick. Mr. Bradic has another way of addressing the MPs. He simply shuts up about everything we say, so we tell the citizens of Serbia. Which is why the DSS Parliamentary Group has submitted several amendments to this bill, i.e. on the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on free access to information of public importance? First of all, because we felt that we should point out a few very important facts, which are obviously lost somewhere, so we think that citizens should know. The first of these facts is – who is the author of this law? We know that the greatest state secret has been declared the author of the Public Information Act. The day-to-day media, which many times find out, failed to find out the controversial author, who apparently has fat reasons to be so hidden from the eyes of the public. The coalition for free access to information claims that it is the author of this law, and to us MPs in the material, it says that the proposal was made by the Ministry of Culture, or proposed by the Government. Why is it so important who is the author of this law? Because in this proposal, which the coalition has submitted, some very important parts are left out, in the proposal that is ahead of us. The first is the protection of the source of information, second, the possibility of appeal against the Assembly, against the Government, the Prime Minister, the Republic Public Prosecutor, the Constitutional and Supreme Court, if they deny access to information, and the third, the primacy of the Law on Free Access to Information over other regulations that would establish this matter. Let's just say, there was a confidentiality law in front of us yesterday. I just feel like I need to draw attention to this, and I'm still going to draw attention to some of the details the public needs to know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-18-0.u30679	The word is made by MP Jovan Palalic, the authorised representative. Time is available for four minutes and 20 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-18-0.u30680	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a united debate is being held when it comes to the law on the secrecy of data and amending the law on the availability of information of public importance, but there is an impression, we saw it in yesterday's debate, that the motion of this law, the promoters, the representatives of the Government, did not agree with the provisions of these two laws. As everything they do is confusing and unsaid, so is the case. They highlight the positive side of the amendments to the law on the availability of information, and they are completely denied by the provisions of the law on the confidentiality of data, which we talked about yesterday, which is Article 8 of that proposal of the law and Article 25, which speak of the possibility of recalling the confidentiality of information and the possibility of the Trustee of public importance being denied for obtaining information that is relevant to him. Not to mention the chaos that will be introduced into this entire system when the mayors, the presidents of the municipalities, declare all living for the secret, all the data they come to, and then the trustee himself will have a problem in different procedures; what a large number of mayors, the president of the municipality wants to hide, their salaries, their jobs, their tenders, will be hidden from the Commissioner. An extremely bad law on the confidentiality of information cannot possibly correct the attempt to amend this law on the availability of information, and we are in favour of always strengthening the positions of the Trustees. The fact that whenever Mr Bradic is present in the National Assembly, we have a debate on very bad laws, which are essentially a backdrop when it comes to democratic processes and human rights. We had a scandalous proposal for a law amending the Information Act, and now we have amendments to the Data Securitisation Act, and all of this represents a step backwards, in general, all the laws that are now coming before the National Assembly, whether it concerns the possibility that citizens have information about what the government is doing, whether the laws that follow us – about mass layoffs, when it comes to local self-government, state administration and the real sector, are through the Banking Act. What awaits us next week is a very dangerous state law on the transfer of jurisdiction to Vojvodina and the Statute of Vojvodina, which we will only talk about, the execution of such a law. All in all, it is not clear what this authority is doing and what laws it proposes to the National Assembly, and the biggest problem is that within the Government itself, here, in these two laws, we do not have any compliance, and the Commissioner, who is given certain rights and the possibility to speed up the procedure in this bill, will be denied many things and will be made very complicated by both work and the ability to exercise his competence and enable the citizens to learn what it is interest to know through the confidentiality law. Mr. Minister, I think the representatives of your ministry had to sit with the representatives of the Justice Department when these two laws were written, which could in no way have been united in this debate. Certainly, it will create additional confusion for the trustee and will not contribute to the progress of the democratic process. On the contrary, all that you do is not only slow down, but turn back what has been achieved until you have come to power.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-18-0.u30681	Anyone else want a word? If not, the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic to Article 2. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 2, the amendment was submitted by a group of 20 MPs of the Prosperity Group of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Sasa Maksimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-18-0.u30682	Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment that we have submitted refers to the public authorities' obligation that, unless it is possible to put an insight into a document containing the requested information, there is a three-day deadline to inform the applicant of the information. What's the three-day deadline for? I believe that the three-day deadline, especially in the current law, is more than enough for the public authority to come up with, consider, decide whether the document or information is owned or not. A further period of 40 days for the notification, i.e. the notification of information to the applicant, is provided for afterwards. That the problems in the past and future application of the law on the availability of information are mainly linked to the human factor shows the government's reasoning regarding the refusal of this amendment, that the person empowered to provide information is not the only job or, to be more precise, to read it: "Amendment is not accepted, given that the person empowered to provide information of public importance does not do this job as the only business". This argument speaks for itself, ladies and gentlemen. Unless the person is able to do a trusted job, he should not do it, not allow legal solutions to delay his job, or do it properly. So far, there have been a lot of problems in the application of this law. The search engine's attempts often come upon a wall of silence, outflows of impatience, or refusal of organs to act in court decisions, and without the reliefs you wish for such a solution to enable public authorities. From the non-applicable law, we come to a law on amendments to the same law, which would be more than welcome if it weren't in certain provisions, such as this, more problematic and worse and than the existing law. Some members of this law, instead of providing a stronger right to free access to information, are reducing and restricting this right, or, in this case, delaying it. This law, or draft law, is unfortunately not serious enough, with many failures and will not contribute to the resolution of problems that clearly make it difficult to apply the existing law, and the refusal of amendments to the opposition will not help the law. On the contrary, he does exactly the opposite. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-18-0.u30683	It's been used 40 seconds since the MP's group's time. Anyone else want a word? If not, the amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric to Article 2. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendments, with correction, were jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Palalic, Milos Aligrudic and Milica Vojic-Markovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojic-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-18-0.u30684	Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I have begun a story about how strange things happen around these laws that are meant to represent the achievement and progress of democratic processes in this country. The second topic I want to talk about is how the laws are being prepared and how they are being delivered to the National Assembly. It would be perfectly normal for state bodies and bodies dealing with the protection of the rights and freedom of citizens, such as the Commissioner for Information to be of public importance, such as the Protector of Citizens, even if they consult in the making of laws concerning these areas, but it is equally natural that this ruling coalition does not need it. It is interesting that this data protection law, led by Secretary-General Boris Tadic, Vladimir Cvian, was initially attended by a representative of the Citizens' Protectors, but rather as a 'fikus'; he was there to show that they were participating, but when a man saw that no one had seen of his proposals, he left the task force alone, because he did not want to represent something that was before us, therefore, a disgrace and a disgrace to the democratic world. It's the same law. Neither the Trustee nor the Protector nor the Citizens have been consulted nor taken part in the work. Even, on behalf of the Commissioner, the Citizens' Protector submitted an amendment, which was not accepted. It is amazing how many things are broken that are related to the laws and the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The Commissioner and the Citizens' Protector have given the Constitution and the special laws of the Republic of Serbia the right to carry out what they are for, means to protect the rights and freedoms of citizens. It is obvious that rights and freedoms of citizens are not something that this government boasts, this government is breaking them right now, as well as the laws it itself has passed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-18-0.u30685	Anyone else want a word? (No) On Article 2, the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP Dragan Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-18-0.u30686	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we can conduct as much bile debate as we can and in this bile debate, the government, even, can accept some suggestions and views of the opposition, and from that bile debate, I don't know how good the law is. What Serbia today has in general as a problem, it is the application of the law in practice. Even if we were to exclude the story that this law is bad and that it is not in the function of exercising the right to the availability of information of public importance in full, the essence of the whole story is that it does not have adequate application in practice. Mr. Minister, in your explanation for this law, in one of the sentences, you wrote: "The law has undoubtedly contributed to further democratisation of relations in society, affirmation of the principle of public authority, democracy of government and freedom of information, has enabled greater control of the work of the state administration and has contributed to the repression of corruption. “ We heard about corruption a moment ago, but what you must accept as a fact, where the SRS yesterday insisted that it was absolutely true, is that your public information trustee, chosen by the National Assembly, who is the choice of the congregation majority, does not share your position, does not share the government’s position; he insists on all the problems stemming from the government when it comes to the functioning and implementation of the legal obligations of his office. Watch out as far as the government goes. In an explanation that a refusal of one of the amendments is justified, the Government wrote that it is a Article 5. The law on free access to information sets out the right to access information of public importance. ''This provision provides that everyone has the right to be told whether the Authority has certain information of public importance, or whether it is otherwise available to him. Everyone has the right to make public information available to him by giving him an insight into a document containing information of public importance, the right to copy of this document, as well as the right to receive, upon request, a copy of the document by mail, fax, e-mail or otherwise. '"This is really nice, everything that's written. If someone didn't know what kind of country we live in, they'd get the impression that we're in Sweden, or some other developed country where these principles and standards are raised to a really high level. The problem is that the state, by doing nothing, has built a system that is in the function of obstructing the application of this law and its provisions. It's not a sector. From the judiciary, the entire state administration, to the office, the system should be in the function of this. On a very specific case, I'm going to show how much in one small environment you can't appeal to the law, you can't, referring to this law, to the right to have one of the information available. Then you see what kind of discipline is, public enterprises, individuals, and what an obstructive element it is when it comes to this law. A citizen from the municipality from which I come, from Surdulica, has submitted, in accordance with the law, a request to receive information on the salary of the director of a small public enterprise. He applied to the law, called for a member, absolutely according to the law, all cited in his application. You're all witnesses here, they butchered us for wages, for journals, every other day the means of public information published the names, the names of each of us individually, how much we receive, how much money we get, which is redefined by law. Not to remind you of the controversy we had about the salaries of certain directors of public enterprises, the information came to the MPs, referring to this law. But when you get to the level of local self-government, look at the haughtiness. You submit a request and then the director of this public enterprise and his legal team answers: “The information you are looking for is not information of public importance within the meaning of the Law on Free Access to Information of Public Meaning. Your request constitutes an abuse of the right to access information of public importance, in terms of the provisions of that law. “ You then take the Law, file a report, but then work the rope with the judiciary and some close friends of judges who deal with violations give the director the right to this attitude. You, again, relying on the law, appeal to the second-degree authority and then bring the judicial council's decision to bring a mistrial in the first-degree procedure. Now, of course, you have reason to triumph, because you were right. Do you think you'll get that information for insight? Of course not. There is no mechanism for you to come up with information on what the salary of a director of a public enterprise is. It is now stated in the reasoning of this law, which is why the amendment is rejected, on the affirmation of democratic principles, on the control of the state administration, and I know what has not been stated, that these standards in this country have moved forward. That really doesn't stand. We can talk here today as much as we want the government to accept something we suggested, whether they think the deadlines proposed by these changes are good or not. In one of the segments of this argument, the government even accepts and acknowledges that the deadlines set in this law are bad. We tried to cut deadlines for certain shops. We felt that the restrictiveness we propose imposes a greater obligation and responsibility on those who implement and apply the provisions of this law and that it is in the function of the true affirmation of standards in this area. Everything else is a story from today to tomorrow. Personally, I believe that, regardless of these changes, nothing in this area will change for a long time in Serbia, because there is no real will for the government to deal adequately with both this and all other areas that will be in the role of countering corruption or some other illegal and illegal affairs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-18-0.u30687	Five minutes and 50 seconds have been used since the Parliament Group. Anyone else want a word? (No) On Article 3, the amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 7, the amendment was submitted by MP Marina Toman. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 8, the amendment was submitted jointly by MPs Zoran Antic, Sasa Maksimovic and Otto Kismarton. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 10, the amendment was submitted by MP Vlatko Ratkovic. The amendment was adopted by the Committee on Culture and Information of the Serbian Parliament, the government did not. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 10, the amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk letter from the Prophet of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-18-0.u30688	A colleague, Boris Aleksic, intervened with the amendment to Article 10. Proposal for this law, which applies to Article 38. The law also speaks of responsible persons in the authority of the government. In Article 38, i.e. in Article 10 of these amendments and additions to the Law, the term "government bodies" has been said to be replaced by the term "responsible person in the Authority of Government". As it is now in the Government's proposal, "the responsible person in the Authority will designate one or more officials, in the following text: a authorised person, for handling upon request for free access to information of public importance". If the authorised person of Article 1's position, this is now the final position, between me, because the amendment intervened on that member, 'not specified for acting on request,' the responsible person in the Authority of the Authority was responsible,' and earlier it seemed to be the competent head of the Authority. The amendment of counterpart Boris Aleksic refers to the fact that Article 10, after the 2nd position, adds a new position, which should read: "A authorised person, or an employee of a public authority, who works to exercise the right of the public to know, cannot be called to account for the detection of corruption or other illegal actions". We think that this amendment is good and should have been accepted, this will be a continuation of my debate on that amendment that I submitted to Article 1 on behalf of the SRS Parliamentary Group, because again, the essence of this law is not to open up a wider possibility of access to public information, but rather, contrary to that. You say in the government, Mr. Bradic, that the amendment is not accepted for the reason that Article 5 of this law sets out the right to access information of public importance. ''This provision provides that everyone has the right to be told whether the Authority has certain information of public importance, or whether it is otherwise available to him. Everyone has the right to make public information available to him by giving him an insight into a document containing information of public importance, the right to copy of this document, as well as the right to receive, upon request, a copy of the document by mail, fax, e-mail or other means. This provision clearly follows the obligation of the public authority to make all information of public importance available, except for those for which it is excluded, or limited freedom of access. ''You further say, 'The provision of available information of public importance is the legal obligation of the public authority and there is no responsibility of a civil servant for providing such information, and the proposed amendment only confirms what has already been regulated by the law.' If this is the case, Mr. Bradiche, then there really is no reason why this amendment is not accepted. If you're really up for what's in the explanation, why didn't you accept the amendment? Show it by accepting the amendment. You know, what our people say, it doesn't hurt from the extra head. This is just a precision, so we don't get into a situation like that little example of Mrs Jelisaveta Vasilic, who, by the way, has now reminded me, also been proposed as a member of the Anti-Corruption Agency. Imagine evil that she, for God's sake, is chosen to fight corruption! Why do we insist on this amendment? Not to get into a situation, Mr. Minister, that we can't get some really important facts from information of public importance. I'm afraid, let's say, we won't be able to obtain certain data from the Ministry of Education, the Higher Education, the Accreditation and Quality Check Commission of the Republic and the District Public Prosecutor's Office, and it concerns facts relating to the Faculty of European Law and Policy Studies. From a letter addressed to all of these addresses by a group of law professors in Novi Sad, I will only quote parts that should be interesting to you, ministers, or to the responsibilities of your ministries, although these include several ministries, but when there are some of your other colleagues, I will remind them of their obligations from this letter. So, according to its character, the Faculty of European Legal and Political Studies is a non-state higher education institution based in Novi Sad, more specifically in Sremska Kamenica, 2nd Street. Now listen, the owner of the Faculty is a certain Jelena Shogorov, who works at the mentioned university as an assistant, i.e. He's an associate in the class. The interesting fact is that the space in which the university is located is actually a centuries-old castle, which is with the part of the surrounding park under the protection of the state, as a cultural good, so I am telling you, Mr. Bradic, a spatial cultural and historical continent of great importance. The castle was recently used by the Public Enterprise "Vode Vojvodina", Novi Sad, and the current user is the University of Singidunum, the Faculty of European Legal and Political Studies. It is very interesting that there was a documentary centre in the castle "Vode Vojvodine" – "Nikola Mirkov", whose direct manager is Mrs. Mira Shogorov, the mother of Jelena Shogorov, who owns the Faculty. This Mira Shogorov, mother, gave her daughter Jelena that space for use at some symbolic price. The issue of cultural goods in the sublet is, you know, totally contrary to the Cultural Goods Act, right, Mr. Bradic? I hope you and your services will check this out and intervene, because I believe you are very interested in cultural goods in Serbia. An explanation for such a step by Mrs. Shogorov may, here, help you find yourself in the facts with which I will introduce you, first of all, to the citizens of Serbia. "According to the consent of the Commission for Accreditation and the Republic Council for the Development of University Education", this advice is, please, an interesting, "as well as solutions", number one since 2004, "The Ministry of Education and Sport of the Republic of Serbia, the Ministry of Education of the AP Vojvodina has given permission to work with its solutions", again some since 2005, I have numbers here, if you are interested, I can give you, but not to bother the public and MPs by reading the numbers, "which has found that they have met the human, spatial, technical and other prescribed conditions for the work of the Faculty. ''It is a very interesting fact, Mr. Bradic, that at the time of the founding of the Faculty, he was a member of the Republic Institute for the Development of the University which issued the 612-00-489/2004-04 solution. Stevan Shogorov, the husband of Mira Shogorov, and the father of Jelena Shogorov. Isn't this really a little bit much? Furthermore, there is also talk about the members of the Council's working group, where the director of Regionalism Centre Aleksandar Popov, Prof. Dr. Marijana Pajvančić, Prof. Dr. Jovan Komisić, Prof. Dr. Snezana Djordjevic, and then Prof. Dr. Stevan Šogorov, this family of Shogorov, seems to be very influential, Dr. Miroslav Prokopiić, Bosko Ristić, our dear fellow MP, Mrs. Gordana Comić, vice president of the National Assembly (probably you know some of these facts and will probably introduce us to some of your knowledge), and Mladen Jovanovic from the "Protekta" Niš. One of the tasks of this council is to participate in preparing and developing a strategy for decentralisation of the Republic of Serbia, in line with European standards and experiences of developed European countries, as well as the need to continue the process of democratisation in Serbia, through decentralisation. Some members of the Council apparently experience the democratisation of the Republic of Serbia in a specific way, as well as decentralisation, carefully deploying illegally acquired property to members of their family and manipulating the various functions they find themselves in. Some of the merits should be sought in the engagement of the aforementioned newly-Sad professor Shogorov, as a consultant of the Agency for Privatisation of the Republic of Serbia. So, around this agency for the privatisation of the Republic of Serbia, all who can in any way be brought into some corruption affair must be related to the Privatisation Agency, and it takes nine years. It's not just now, that privatisation agency is the biggest evil and it's the source of poverty and misery, it's why it's selling out state property and businesses; the closure of factories and these millions of people who are jobless, quits, everything that's problematic, is in this agency. Mr. Professor. Stevan Shogorov was a consultant of the Agency for the Privatisation of the Republic of Serbia, where he participated in the adoption and implementation of suspicious privatisation affairs, this time in co-operation, my God, with his brother Milovana Shogorov, whose name ended some of the actions of the privatised companies, and some of the actions are being conducted today, both on his and on behalf of his brother, Prof. Shogorov, as well as those close to the circle. You see how it works in the state of Serbia, mother and daughter sell each other culturally well-being, or betrayal. I hope, Mr. Bradic, that you will determine which one is the bridegroom, because this castle is protected, as culturally well, and Mrs. Mira Shogorov betrayed him to her daughter Jelena Shogorov, and then how did the accreditation give Mr. Stevan Shogorov, Father Jelenin, and Mira's husband, and how did Mr. Stevan Shogorov arrive at the Privatisation Agency and allow his brother Shogorov Milovan to get some action under some privatisations? Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, dear, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, this is the state of your country in Serbia, which my colleague Stevanovic handed to me, your mother complained to you. Indeed, the situation is more than difficult and, unfortunately, there is no will, there is no interest in the government of the Republic of Serbia, in this regime, that anything is done to make the citizens of Serbia finally start to live a little better, or at least to stabilise this tragic situation. Every day we get new information about the number of hungry, about 300,000 children who, Mr. Minister, do not have a third meal. A million people live below the level of existence. There's no sign of a Schengen visa if these young people, who are here and who I now welcome to see and listen to, if their parents can't pay for their trip. They're missing a Schengen visa. Mr. Minister, make an effort, as part of the government, as a member of the Government and as a Government of the Republic of Serbia, so let the parents of all these children who have lost their jobs, and surely there are many of them, get a job, allow these children to really school for free. Don't abuse the fact that these are smart kids, that they want to go to school, because, unfortunately, parents don't have the money to train them. Parents have no money to send them on a field trip, not just them, but all of Serbia's children. I hope the children present here aren't in those 300,000 children who don't have a third meal. It is a fact that these young people also must be concerned, and, Mr. Minister, should worry you too, to worry Boris Tadic, to worry about this regime. You must do everything in your power, and enough to stop corruption, to stop crime, is enough to use this people's money in the best interests of all Serbian citizens. Don't get involved in the economic crisis, as one of my colleagues said here the other day, Moma Markovic is at stake, since it's a popular shortcut for the global economic crisis – SEKA, Moma said it's with us, or that it's a democratic economic crisis. You are the source of all problems, you who are power. This regime is the source of all the problems of Serbian citizens and if you can listen to what I just said and do not react, what I read, a letter from a group of professors from the Faculty of Law in Novi Sad... I really want to ask you this as a question and expect an answer in writing, so that I can get to know the public – what have you found about the fact that cultural good, for which you, as minister, have been responsible, Mrs Mira Shogorov leased to her daughter Jelena Shogorov, and that Dad Stevan Shogorov participated in the decision on accreditation of this university? So, Mr. Minister, don't smile. It's nice when the minister's in the mood, but you immediately associate me with Prime Minister Cvetkovic, whom I've never seen laugh in my life, except when he said he was going to his office smiling, because the better time came in Serbia. Unfortunately, Serbia is in a terrible time.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-18-0.u30689	People's MPs, the time available to you as a parliamentary group has been used. Thank you. Before we continue the work, I order the National Assembly services to stenograms of presentations by the Members of the People's Parliaments of the Verica Radeta and Dragan Stevanović to deliver to the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office and the Anti-Corruption Agency, with instructions for follow-up, based on information presented today, at the beginning and during the debate in detail on the law on the agenda, and to inform me of the date and date of dispatch of that stenogram to the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office and the Anti-Corruption Agency. Dear People's MPs, before we continue to work, let me inform you that at the Grand Hall gallery there are high schoolers, students of the co-ordination body of the Government of the Republic of Serbia for the municipalities of Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedja, who will follow part of today's session, and with students are representatives of their secondary schools, and I welcome students: Cemal Bajrami, Elion Aliu, Alta Aliu, Fisnike Veliu, Adrian Krimani, Redzep Bajrami, Jehona Bajrami, Zeći Bajrami, Arburim Miftari, Dibran Rahmani, Faria Arifi, Suhana Ahmeti, Medi Alizili Izili, Milan Jovanović, Aljban Ali, Cendres, Egzon Fazlimímija, Liri, Liriemaj Adima, Eljan Qajvan Qazi, Elizima, Lujan Qaj, Lužima, Lujan, Lujan, Lujan, Luždi, Luždi, Lujdi, Lujdi, Lujdi, Memir, Memir, Memir, Medi, Ali There are, according to the list, participants in today's session, from galleries, from the municipality of Bujanovac – Angel Vidinov, Tamara Vidinova, Izet Limani, Arlind Alija, Merita Emini, Vildane Adilji, Jelena Stanojković, Žemil Tahiri, Žaklina Dodić, Arben Salija, Sara Dzemailović, Florence Latifi, Sabri Sulejmani, Vulnet Vanushi, Ivana Janjčić, Emine Salihi, Venure Aldili, Besart Jusufi, Arduan Mustafa, Milica Mihajlovska, Caltrina Ćazi, Rehane Ismaili, Liridan Alimić, Vljar Ramadani, Fatbarla Fazliji, Agon Fazliu, Kumria Salihi, Sumria Lati, Kalajljajli, Kalijan Sutr, Kalijan Sutrjan Sutr, Kalaj Sutrjan Sutrjan Sutrim, Kali, Kalim Sutrim, Kalim Sutrjan Sutrina Sutrim, Izli, Izli, Izlimić, Is, Is, Is, Is, Iztrdjan Zadjan Zatrdi Lal, Is, Iztrdi Laljim. Welcome to your house, to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. We continue with the work of reviewing the details and discussion of the amendment to Article 10, which was submitted by the Citizens' Protector. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Vesna Pesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-18-0.u30690	I asked for a word on the two amendments submitted to this Article 10. One amendment was submitted by our colleague Vlatko Ratkovic and his amendment to this article was accepted by the Committee on Culture and Information, the Assembly Committee, but the Government rejected this amendment. It is very interesting, however, that the same amendment was submitted to the same article by the Republic of Simeon, Mr Sasa Jankovic, even much better and more successfully defined amendment to Article 10, and that the government rejected the amendment, which was very pedantically made, with a very broad and extensive explanation. I wanted to ask, first of all, the question – why was Mr. Manchester's amendment rejected, because I couldn't find an appropriate explanation, so I ask the minister, who is probably familiar with it, to tell us what this is about? Why am I asking this question? I am asking this question because these two amendments, and our MP Vlatko Ratkovic and Mr Heroes, refer to detailing the protection of what might be popularly referred to as 'insider', the authorised person, the official who provides certain information, and this information cannot be hidden from the citizens, because it cannot have limited access, because it is a criminal offence; it particularly refers to it if an authorised person comes to the knowledge that the state authority violates authority and has indications that corruption is involved. This Institute of Insiders, or an authorised person supplying such information, is protected from being able to respond if such information is supplied to the public, because it is a violation of the law, criminal acts, of abuse of the official position, of corruption. The question arises – why is the role of the insider, the authorised person who delivers this type of information now specified, that he cannot answer for giving such information, which are otherwise protected? Is it natural that we didn't adopt this important anti-corruption institute, to get one form that allows a much more effective fight against corruption? You have seen a lot of talk these days about Serbia having a very low score when it comes to fighting corruption, only 3.5, and only a decent assessment to fight corruption is considered a score of 5. Imagine how far we are from that grade, when the highest score is 10. Serbia has faced a major problem in the fight against corruption, and we have a Law on Free Access to Information, which is crucial for fighting corruption when we have such amendments as are proposed, and Mr. Our colleague, and even more successful Frankfurt. Such amendments are rejected because they specify and strengthen institutions and the possibility of fighting corruption, that authorised persons cannot respond if they point to cases of corruption. I'm not going to read this explanation, I'm just going to read a little bit about how Mr. Frankfurt explained the protection of the insider, or the official who was authorized to provide such information. ''The main objective of the amendment is to enable the fuller exercise of citizens' rights to access data owned by state authorities and organisations entrusted with public authority (Article 51, point 2. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia). The amendments remove the problems that have arisen during the current application of the Law, allowing for the protection of all who, under the conditions provided for by the law, allow access to information that may indicate irregularities in the work of the authorities, which, among other things, creates conditions for an effective fight against corruption and fulfils the international obligations undertaken on the basis of ratified conventions and membership in international organisations. ''You have one amendment where every member and every position is precisely explained, on the seven pages, where the issue of the official insider is resolved in the kit, which indicates that the state's body violates the law, commits crimes, abuses its position, that it's about corruption. And, when it was meant to define it in such a precise way, finally, the Simeon government also rejects the amendment and does not want to strengthen our institutions that allow the fight against corruption. On the occasion of the latest "Trans-International" report, you saw where Serbia is located. The main reason why the fight against corruption is so unsuccessful in our country is that it is not strong in our institutions, that those institutions that are in charge of fighting corruption are not strengthened, which concerns, above all, the judiciary, and also here, when it comes to the application of the Law on Free Access to Information, where the Institute of Insiders, or an authorised person, which does not respond and does not violate its labour-legal obligations when it points to violations of the law, criminal acts and doubts that corruption exists. So you didn't want, as Government, to strengthen this institute. Then we should not be surprised when we get weak grades, and, as you know, not only does it harm citizens, not only do millions go to corruption, but it is also about that it is one of the basic conditions for Serbia to get closer to the EU. Please explain by Mr. Minister – why you did not strengthen the position of authorised persons who, in breach of their labour obligations. point out crimes and corruption problems without being punished for it? It is truly very strange that an MP, who is also president of the Legislative Committee, submits an amendment that is accepted by the Assembly Committee, and the Government rejects it, as well as an amendment of the Simeon, which gives you, as I say, an entire book, in a much better way than our colleague did. So, please, if you can, right now, give me an explanation why these amendments have been rejected and why are they not considered? I may be in some kind of error, but this institute is extremely important for fighting corruption, as well as for achieving citizens' right to free access to information, there is no doubt about it. Therefore, please explain why this institute, which is crucial for fighting corruption and other violations of public authority, was not taken into account at all that the government simply rejected it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-18-0.u30691	Eight minutes. Just to tell me do you want that time to be from the time of the Parliament Group, or you as authorized representatives?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-18-0.u30692	As an authorised representative.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-18-0.u30693	Eight minutes from the authorized representative's time has been used. Thank you. Anyone else want a word? On Article 14, the amendment was tabled by a group of 20 MPs from the Prosperity Group of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Sasa Maksimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-18-0.u30694	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, Mr. Minister, the amendment of the Serbian Progressive Party to Article 14, in the part of the criminal provisions, refers to the authorised person in the Authority and reads: 'Article 46, after point 11', adds a new point 12, which reads: ''Refuses to provide applicants with the necessary assistance for the exercise of their rights (Article 38(2)). So far, points 12 to 17 become points 13 to 18.' The adoption of this amendment would provide for the harmonisation of the Amendments and Supplements Act on free access to information of public importance with the applicable law. The provision contained in the existing law, which will not exist after the adoption of the law on amendments and additions, is much better and clearer than the general, which you are now proposing. With your proposal, you will allow everything I have spoken in the debate in principle and detail, i.e., to repeat briefly, the Institute of Silence of Administration, that is, when the authority of the public authority to whom the request has been addressed does not respond at all to the request of the applicant, outstretched impatience, the refusal of the authority to act according to judicial decisions etc., and not only to this member of the law, but also to all the Members of the SNS who wanted to amend it, but you, unfortunately, did not have the hearing. The Government’s reasoning for the refusal of this amendment states that a new point is not necessary, since that provision is already contained in the existing point of Article 12. The draft law, which, for the sake of the public, reads - in any other way contrary to the provisions of this law, prevents the exercise of the right to free access to information of public importance (Article 22(1) point 6) etc. So instead of one very clear definition of violations, you give one general and, mostly, inapplicable provision of the law, which will not contribute to a quality legal solution. Although this bill, in fact, is a copy, and a bad copy, of the bill submitted by the Civil Initiative, it does not give you the right to put such a law on the agenda of the Republic of Serbia without public hearing. I repeat what I said and in the debate in principle, withdraw the law, write a new one or at least rewrite it properly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-18-0.u30695	Twenty-five seconds from the time of the MP's group. Anyone else want a word? (No) On Article 15, the amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-18-0.u30696	On behalf of the SRS Parliamentary Group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 15, to the section relating to criminal provisions, where we have requested the amendment to increase the lower limit of fines from 5,000 to 10,000 dinars. The right to tell you, the objective of this amendment was not to increase punishment, the goal was precisely to have the Ministry, or the Government write such an explanation why the amendment does not accept, because the fine of 5,000 or 10,000 for those who commit a crime in this sense is not great. The government says in its explanation - the amendment is not accepted for the reason that the amount of fine provided for by the bill corresponds to the severity of the breach of the legal norm. So if someone does not file an annual report and not give the Commissioner information of public importance to the parts of the annual report, or an annual report in general, and the Trustee, therefore, cannot, at the question of the citizens or the MPs, give information about how a firm did business, will be fined by between 5,000 and 50,000 dinars, mostly 5,000 dinars. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, then it is no wonder that we, MPs, have not received an annual budget report in a few years. Now Minister Cvetkovic will pay 5,000 and solve the problem, i.e. six years per 5,000 is 30,000, because for each year he will have to pay. The Minister of Culture has rejected this amendment to the Committee on Culture and Information. Let me inform you something, Mr. Culture Minister, that I have been moving back two terms on the issue of crime at the Yugoslav History Museum. Your predecessors were saying...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-18-0.u30697	Two minutes, thank you. Anyone else want a word? People's MP, please don't throw it away. The SRS parliamentary group has used all the time available to the parliamentary group, the authorised representative of its time, and each applicant of the amendment has two minutes. Anyone else want a word? (No) National MP Milan Avramovic tabled an amendment proposing that a new Article 15a be added after article 15. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Boris Aleksic has tabled an amendment proposing that a new member of 15a be added after article 15a. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 17, the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 17, the amendment was submitted jointly by MPs Vesna Pesic, Judita Popovic and Nebojsa Rangelovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk letter, Vesna Pesic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-18-0.u30698	As I said earlier that the amendments to the Law on Free Access to Information from Public Matter have not been used to remove certain shortcomings from the current experience in applying this law, it is not accepted to strengthen the position of the official who points to the corruption of the state authorities, that his position and status in such situations is more closely protected than was ever the case, and so my amendment, which at first looks very simple, but by refusing to immediately apply supervision of the application of this law, is already delayed for six months, has the same meaning. We have suggested, the LDP has suggested that there is no reason to delay the supervision of the application of this law by six months, but to apply immediately after the publication of the "Official Messenger", because this decision was already made in April that the supervision would no longer be carried out by the Ministry of Culture and Information, because it was not carried out at all, nor was it qualified to exercise that supervision of the law. In fact, the law was transferred to the Ministry of Local Self-Government and the state administration, and six months ago, a administrative inspection was made to carry out the surveillance, so, in April of this year, and there was no reason to delay the supervision of this law for the next six months. Instead of strengthening institutions, we either don't strengthen those institutions at all, or we extend one state without supervision. Just to say, in my argument, I have pointed out that five years since the adoption of this law, surveillance functions have not yet been established and I ask that it be registered. As a result, the absence of the responsibility of the authorities for breaching the right to free access to information, as well as the non-execution of other legal obligations of the Authority, including the one which implies the publication of information on a proactive basis, without a concrete requirement. So either these proactive ones, which are very important to us citizens, are not allowed either. That surveillance hasn't even existed in five years. Now that it's transferred to another ministry, which has already formed an inspection, knows what it's about, knows it's going to do, that surveillance is being delayed for the next six months. I'm just pointing out that it's about not wanting to strengthen the institutions here and the supervision relating to free access to information of public importance, to the fight against corruption, but to the business ineffectiveness of our administration. How long does it take our administration to prepare to take this supervisory post? Why, if she was ready six months ago, if the inspection exists, we didn't immediately establish control over the application of this law, but we're delaying for the next six months? We asked for supervision of this law to be established immediately. But you've spread it again, you've diluted it again, and you've made it possible for the ministry that has now received this responsibility, not more of yours, but secondly, for the next six months to do nothing and not monitor it. This just suggests that, despite firing people, you do not effectively perform those functions that should be performed when it comes to citizens' interests.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-18-0.u30699	It was used two minutes from the time of the authorised representative of the LDP parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? (No) Since we have completed the examination of the Bill's proposal in particular, does the Proposer's representative want to give the final statement? (Yes) The word has Minister Nebojsa Bradic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-18-0.u30700	I thank the MPs of the people for these contentious remarks, which we, of course, have taken seriously. I want to give a few answers that deserve the questions that were raised during this debate. As you know, the Ministry of Culture in the previous period, which means, five years ago, has been given some kind of obligation to monitor information of public importance, i.e. the implementation of the Information Act of public importance and free access to information. In this regard, given the capacity this ministry has in the cultural sectors, this means, cultural creation, heritage and media, and the lack of inspection service, which is suitable for such jobs, the Commissioner accepted last year's initiative to put this law into practice and to make the necessary changes that will allow this law to come within the scope of the ministry which, since it has an inspection service, will be able to monitor and monitor it. In this regard, in the preparations carried out in the previous period, it was made clear that the legislation was more effective and that the effects of the law were seen and that they were in favour of the citizens of Serbia. There have been several very specific issues with regard to members, amendments that have been submitted to certain members of the amendment to the Law. I will take the opportunity to answer two of her questions to Mrs. Pesic. The attitudes put forward in the proposals for the amendment of the Citizens' Protector were unacceptable to the Government, for the reason that no legislation was passed establishing the classification of classified information. It is unacceptable to leave at the will of a civil servant to appreciate the degree of confidentiality and secrecy of the material. By sharing classified and confidential information, the state could be brought into a situation that damages its economic and political interests, and thus the interests of citizens. As regards issues relating to employees of public authorities, in the context of these obligations, no matter how they are expected, it must be possible to access information of public importance available to all interested persons, in accordance with the law. Therefore, it would be pointless, as one of the positions in this amendment has been proposed, for persons who are safe and legally carrying out their obligations to be held accountable and determining the conditions when they will not be held accountable. It's simply in accordance with the law. As far as the deadlines are concerned, I think we have reached a good consensus here, because the Ministry of Local Self-Government, or Minister Markovic, has accepted that these deadlines are being intensified, that their application begins immediately, because in the first period, the first facility by the ministry was that they are not at this point ready to apply and conduct surveillance immediately. If that's settled now, we expect your insistence on its effectiveness to be supported, just by the procedure that will follow.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-18-0.u30701	I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 9th item of the agenda – I would like to inform you that, in relation to the point, the amendments and additions to the Law on Civil Service (Statistics). 9th, 10th and 11th agenda, and pursuant to Article 88(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, President of the National Assembly, Ms Slavica Djukić-Dejanovic, called for the members to attend, in addition to the representatives of the proposings, Milan Markovic, Minister of State Administration and Local Self-Government, Mladjan Dinkic, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Economy and Regional Development, Rasim Ljajic, Minister of Labour and Social Policy and Zarko Obradović, Minister of Education, and Vesna Kovac, State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, Zoran Martinović, State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, Milica Dražić, Assistant Minister for State Administration and Local Self-Government, Igor Vukanski, Assistant Minister for State Administration and Local Government, Dejan Radulović, from the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development and Zeljko Curguz, senior adviser at the Republic Secretariat of Law. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs: Vjerica Radeta, Zlata Đerić, Gordana Pop-Lazić, Petar Jojic, Zoran Krasic, Sreto Perić, Mirko Munjic, Dejan Mirović, Boris Aleksic, Aleksandar Martinović, Milorad Buha, Vlatko Ratković, Milos Aligrudić, Jovan Palalić, Aleksandar Pejčić, Tomislav Nikolic, Jorgenka Tabaković, Zoran Antic, Veroljub Arsić, Zoran Babić, Igor Bečić, Jelena Budimirović, Božidar Delić, Stefan Zankov, Otto Kišmarton, Milan Knezević, Saša Maksimović, Zoran Mašić, Predrag Mijatović, Ljiljana Miladinović, Borisa Pošurić, Mileta Posurica, Gojko Radić, Majko Radić, Mić, Mičko Žalić and Drago Žalić as well as well as well as well as well as well as the Committee. You have received a report from the Justice and Administration Committee and the Government's Opinion on the amendments submitted. Before moving on to a search in detail, I remind you that MP Zlata Djeric withdrew amendments she submitted to members of 49a. and 49b. It's a bill of law. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. I request the National Assembly's service to inform the government's representatives and invited to the Assembly's session that they can enter the O.R. I thank Minister Nebojsa Bradic and my associates. Since we do not currently have a notice that the government has sent a notice to the National Assembly on which of the authorised representatives will be with us during the search in particular, I am determining a break from 11.55 to 12.55 hours. Then we continue to work, fully certain that the Government will inform the National Assembly, aware of its obligations, which of the authorised ministers and other government officials will be with us during the afternoon work. Thank you. [[After break – 12.55]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work in the afternoon session. At the beginning of this afternoon's work, I am informing the National Assembly that, on the basis of Article 85, we will be working after 18 hours today, by discussing details of the draft law that is on the agenda at that time. All business conditions have been met to continue our work. Minister Milan Markovic, the government's authorised representative for the search in detail of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Civil Servants, is present. On Article 2, the amendment, with a correction, was submitted by the People's MP, Ms. Radeta. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 3, the amendment was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 3, the amendment was submitted by Parliament of People Gordana Pop-Lazic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 4, the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 5, the amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 6, the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 7, the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a Messenger of the people, Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-18-0.u30703	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, on everything that stands in the light of the law on amendments and additions to the Law on Civil Servants, the SRS Parliamentary Group indicated three years ago, in 2005, when this law was passed. At the time, there was not enough hearing to accept objections, because if it were, today wouldn't be necessary to change this. The biggest problem is not the frequent change in legal proposals, or laws themselves, much greater the problem of their disrespect. Indeed, this government should be elected, and this should be the basic law, i.e. one of the basic jobs – the application of legal regulations. As MPs, we want that part to be controlled and implemented. So far, this law has had two changes. For the first time, the changes occurred because it was intended to comply with this law with the provisions of the Constitution, and then, because of compliance with the positive regulations of the second law. It explains that professionalisation, depoliticalisation and the career system is one of the basic principles of the new law on civil servants, and it is certainly not. Professionalization – let's accept that it is partially sought, and depoliticisation – well, it has never been present again with party belonging to the employment of government officials than it is now. The career system cannot be talked about the career system, because the majority of citizens in Serbia have no chance to start working, let alone build a business or work career. What does the Government have to do with those who do not make up the parliamentary majority, i.e. the opposition, such as the MPs of the SRS, can also be seen from the arguments given by the Government for not accepting amendments submitted by the SRS to Article 7 and in relation to Article 32 of the basic law. Article 32 provides for groups that can be classified as civil servants, so it is said that these are persons who are both in position and in executive jobs, and Article 32(2) says – the provisions of this law on division of jobs are not applied to police, customs and tax officials and public officials who work so far – in security jobs, in institutions for the execution of office sanctions. It is proposed to say:'security and security affairs' and 'in law enforcement offices', replacing the words'security and intelligence affairs and in criminal sanctions'. We have suggested that after saying "security", they put a comma and add the words "intelligence and criminal sanctions" to the institutions. This is about the legal-technical order, the need to bring this thing together. The government, in its explanation for why it does not accept this amendment – the amendment is not accepted because its inaccurate formulation does not carry out a legal-technical editorial as stated in the amendment's explanation. I would like to make this amendment quite simple – if it were said that Mr. Minister is having breakfast during the day, it will not be said to have breakfast and dinner, but will be said to have breakfast, lunch and dinner. I think it's perfectly acceptable and it doesn't get into the concept of the bill, but it's the desire and the need to agree on it, to be better written, but the government doesn't want to accept it so much, to do what's really better, which is more acceptable. I suppose, perhaps, after my explanation of this amendment, the minister will make a decision to accept this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-18-0.u30704	Two minutes and 30 seconds have been used since the Parliament's group's time. Anyone else want a word? If not, on Article 8, the amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the Messenger of the people is Mirko Munjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-18-0.u30705	Thank you. This article 8 has experienced two changes. One change is in the bill of law, which says that positions in courts and public prosecutors are determined by law, and in other state bodies positions are determined by their acts. This is, in fact, a change in the position of Article 2 of Article 34, and immediately before this, we have received a new amendment from the Justice Committee relating to Article 8, i.e. this Article 2 of Article 34, where the position in courts and public prosecutors is said to be determined by the act of the Supreme Cassation Court, i.e. the Republic Public Prosecutor, and in other state bodies the positions are determined by the acts of those bodies. The new change proposed by the Committee on Justice and Administration allegedly gives the possibility to establish positions in courts and public prosecutors by means of acts of the Supreme Cassation Court, i.e. the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office, with reasons that such a solution is more consistent, for the reason that, under the Law on the Regulation of the Courts, there are several courts, i.e. public prosecutors, and this solution is more consistent. However, neither, nor any other solution, nor originally provided for in Article 8. The bill, as well as this solution proposed by the Justice and Administration Committee, does not go into what we asked for by the amendment. Namely, it is here that the Supreme Cassation Court determines the position in courts and public prosecutors, and that the position of civil servants in other state bodies is determined by their acts. So, you're going, by changing this position, to a legal solution to the situation, but this applies only to the positions of courts and public prosecutors, and the other public authorities need to determine their position, so the position of civil servants in those bodies, by their acts. We are looking for a second solution, that the position of both, therefore, and the position in courts and prosecutors, as well as the position in the state authorities, should be determined by law, that the position of each and every one of them is uniquely determined by law. They're all civil servants, and their position should be determined by law. Therefore, to provide for in the law, and for the development of this, when concreteisation is done under their legal acts, it should be done in accordance with this law. We believe that this is the best solution and that an amendment of the SRS should be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-18-0.u30706	One minute and 15 seconds of the Parliament's time spent. Anyone else want a word? (No) The Committee on Justice and Administration, pursuant to Article 142(5). Rules of Procedure, he has submitted an amendment to Article 8. This amendment was adopted by the proposing representative. Since the Legislative Committee has not spoken out, this amendment will be declared by the National Assembly in the day of the vote. On Article 9, the amendment was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 11, the amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 12, the amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 13, the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 13, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 15, the amendment was tabled by the People's Parliament of the People's Republic of Rade. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 17, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 18, the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 19, the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a Messenger of the people, Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-18-0.u30707	We have submitted an amendment to Article 19. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on civil servants, relating to Article 55 of the basic law on civil servants. First, I suggested that attitude one be proposed. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law deletes, and then, in paragraph 2, the following words remain: "The deadline for applying to a public competition cannot be shorter than eight days from the day of advertising of the public competition in the "Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia". So our proposal is to keep this. The shortest deadline has been defined here. Given that, when the Minister explained the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to this Act in 2008, as in 2009, he presented the fact that it is on average necessary time to fill these jobs for more than 80 days, we believe that there is reason to remain a determination in which shortest period of time an ad can be submitted, but in addition to the publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia", in our opinion, it is inevitable that it also stands: "the public vote and the organisation responsible for employment". You know that a very small number of Serbian citizens are in a position and in a position to accompany the "Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia". The development of technology now may have improved the possibility of Internet monitoring, but we must bear in mind the fact that a large number of citizens in Serbia have not yet mastered these technologies enough and cannot monitor the ability to advertise these jobs of civil servants. You are in the reasons why this amendment of the SRS is not accepted; you have stated that it is not known from which time period the deadline should run. Well, from the time period in which, whether in the "Official Messenger", or in one of the other messages in which it is advertised, that ad came out later, so it would be considered – eight days from the time that the advertisement in which the job is advertised was published in the second page. Then we suggested to take item 3. The proposal for this law is deleted – that untimely, incomprehensible and other applications will not be taken into consideration, and – the complaint referred to in Article 3, as Article 4, does not retain the conclusion. We believe that much better and more celery solutions are in the already existing law and therefore we see no need for article 55 to change in these attitudes. Therefore, we agree to supplement Article 55(2) with the 'public opinion and organisation of employment authorities'. Then it would be both precise and clearly defined and would remove certain doubts, as well as favouring certain candidates for employment, because we can assume how public officials would be filled in if the job would only be published in the Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia. There are enough reasons to accept this amendment and then make the bill more acceptable and better for the citizens of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-18-0.u30708	Two minutes has been used since the Parliament Group's time. Anyone else want a word? (No) On Article 21, the amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the Messenger of the people is Mirko Munjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-18-0.u30709	Article 21 reads: 'Article 58, paragraph 1, the words 'of 15 days' are replaced by the words 'of eight days'. You predicted here a 15-day cut-off for eight days. Let me just remind you that a member of 58 regulates the question of entering into the work of a civil servant. Article 58 says the elected candidate is obliged to enter work within 15 days of the finalisation of the commitment to work, or transfer, unless the manager, for justified reasons, extends the time limit. So based on this, you asked for this 15-day deadline to be reduced to eight days. In our amendment, we asked for this member to be deleted, that is, to remain a 15-day term, in which a civil servant would enter into office. This 15-day deadline is considered more appropriate and better, for several reasons, because here are two statuses. The first status is admission to employment and the second status is transfer to another post. Always, in case of regulation of these statuses, therefore, admission to employment, as well as transfer to another post, sets a deadline for appeal and the deadline is 15 days. If someone had already been left behind for 15 days to complain, for example, about the solution to their transfer to another workplace, why would the same civil servant make himself go to work eight days from the finality of the solution? We consider it more appropriate that what is provided for in the earlier regulation, that is, to be 15 days. There are numerous reasons why he should be given a longer period of 15 days to get to work. We don't think that deadline should be changed and our amendment should be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-18-0.u30710	Thirty seconds has been used since the Parliament Group's time. Information on the current workflow: I think everyone is given the report of the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs, so it is possible that the data from the material that I have in running the session are not in each of the amendments in accordance with the Report, given that we are working on a synopsis in which there is no Report of the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs. The stenogram works, just to let you know that the Committee for the 10th and 11th points, and for the 9th points, if there is a report, you will get it, so that in this part of the session, until there are corrections to the synopsis, we compare the amendment that we are looking at in particulars and the Report, if there are any changes, the Labour Committee, martial arts and social issues. Does anyone else want a word in the debate in particular in the amendment to Article 21? (No) On Article 22, the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the People's Messenger is the Prophet of the Prophet of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-18-0.u30711	Thank you. I'll use the time of an authorised representative, or at least part of that time. What you would say, Mrs. Komic, is a stenogram doing, and the public is doing, is exactly the session of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, with very important topics on the agenda – the proposals of the Statutes of the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina and this unconstitutional law on the transfer of jurisdiction, and that is why the MPs of the SRS who were obliged to speak of the details could not have been involved from the very beginning in this paper. This speaks of how much you take very seriously the work of Parliament and the work of the Committee. I'd say you're doing a lot of work just to get rid of work, and I have to tell you that's not good. At the previous agenda point, and it also has to do with this agenda point, I was talking about certain abuses of gentlemen from Novi Sad, Jelena Šogorov, who owned the Faculty of European Legal and Political Studies, whose birth mother, Mira Šogorov, as the direct manager of the "Vode Vojvodina" Documentation Centre, was leased culturally at some extremely low and symbolic price, contrary to the Cultural Goods Act, and that in the Republic Council for the Development of University Education, a member of the Commission who accredited this university was Stevan Šogorov. So I'm talking about the relationship between mother, daughter, father, or husband, how corrupt actions are conducted, and how, in the most harshest way possible, the interest of Serbian citizens is at stake. In the meantime, why am I saying this? Because you, Mrs. Comic, said, or publicly asked for a stenogram of what me and counterpart Dragan Stevanovic spoke about to the public prosecutor. Not that we don't mind, but God forbid the DA starts doing his job, but you don't have to warn him. The public prosecutor is obliged to even at the market, when he buys eggs, if he hears anyone mentioning any reasonable suspicion that a crime has been committed, he reacts. Don't get me wrong, I don't mind what you asked for and warned the DA. We've long been saying that he's not doing his job, you're just joining it. Again, if you really get into this process, another piece of information. Meanwhile, I've learned that this Mr. Stevan Shogor is a member of the Management Board of Metals Bank. "Metals Bank", again to remind, is the bank, conditionally said, Bojan Pajtic, who was formed with the intention of being a development bank, as foreseen in this unconstitutional text of the AP Vojvodina statute. So we neither brought here nor agreed to this statute, and Bojan Pajtic, here, neatly with him and this Mr. Shogorov, are doing what they were ordered to do. As far as Article 22 is concerned, The draft law on civil servants, I don't think I've left the topic at all, because this one from the Duke's Water is a civil servant, has been paid out of the Republic of Serbia's budget, so it has to do with this. What did Mr. Zoran Krasic suggest? To be a member of 22. The proposal for this law is deleted and Article 22 is deleted. The proposal for this law concerns Article 59 of the basic law, which is amended, as regards civil servants. What has the government proposed to us now? This Article 59 refers to the right to appeal by candidates participating in the electoral procedure and says that the decision on admission to employment, i.e. the transfer decision, is to be submitted to all candidates who participated in the election procedure to the address listed in the application. There's nothing controversial about it. It is further said: "If the delivery from Article 1 of this article has failed, the official face of the state body shall draw up a written note. In the case referred to in Article 2, the decision shall be published on the Agency’s advertising board and shall be deemed to have been delivered after eight days from the date of publication. The candidate who participated in the electoral procedure has the right to declare a complaint within eight days of the date of delivery of the solution if he considers that the elected candidate does not meet the conditions." We think this is inadmissible, because this is going to be a source of abuse. There is a law on general administrative procedure that regulates, among other things, the way of delivery, but I find it more interesting to explain the government of the Republic of Serbia, which says that it does not accept the amendment of Zoran Krasic, because it says, "that in practice it has shown ineffective application of the rules of general administrative procedure on the personal delivery of a solution, the proposed solution states that, if the official in the body fails to deliver it, it is considered to be a written note, and the solution is published on the public authority’s advertising board and, at the end of the eighth day since the day of publication, it is considered to be delivered". This is amazing, for many reasons. First, how is it possible that this law can devalue the General Administrative Procedure Act? It's, like, legal, something that's taken me apart. On the other hand, how will someone who participated in a public competition and deliberately not provide him with notice that someone else was admitted to that public competition, and not him, besides all those scanners, security, announcements, etc., to get to the place where the advertising board was in that state authority and to see that the advertising board said that the public competition had ended? This is simply impossible and only speaks in favor of our claim, from the principle debate on all these bill proposals, that it is not the intention that this law, like other laws, improves anything in the field of state administration, but changes in this law, these changes are made to make up for what you are predicting by these laws that follow, which is a reduction in the number of employees in the state administration and local self-government. You are opening this law the possibility that each minister can hire, or first fire, in accordance with the law, a total of over three thousand people at the level of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and about seven-eight thousand at the level of local self-government. We talked about it, these laws predict tens of thousands of layoffs, at least in the state administration and local self-government, and these cancellations will be given to those who are politically inadequate. This will be in the largest number of cases of people who have quite a working experience and professional experience in doing these extremely significant jobs. Therefore, this law amending the Law on civil servants, as well as these two laws later, opens up the possibility of abuse, by allowing new officials to be admitted for a certain period of time and which the number of employees will not be changed, may be even bigger, because these laws allow, but it is important that these laws open up the possibility of creating a full party state, which is already quite partyal, but, if there is somewhere else an unfulfilled hole, this law creates a possibility for that to happen. That is why it is said, in this Article 22. The bill, in which delivery will be made and the right to appeal in a public competition. This is really amazing. If we're right and the state of the state of the state of government is not good, I'll support it with a few sentences from the stenogram, actually, quote by Mr. Milan Markovic. In the light of the proposal for this law, Mr Milan Markovic said, among other things – so we can say that after three years of applying this law, it is thought of the Law on civil servants, the system did not experience its affirmation through setting up positions. 'The reasons are multiple. One reason is that this is already the third government working on the principle of civil servants. We had two choices, which certainly hindered the procedure of putting in place positions, and the second reason is somewhat inert when initiating competitions by organ managers. ''We fully agree with what Mr. Milan Markovic said, but we expect him to tell us what has been done against those who have been inert, who have abused the existing law, and whether they will eventually be assessed by a negative assessment, whether they will be fired after the adoption of these laws that follow. Furthermore, Mr. Minister says, "Let's say, it's interesting to say that setting up a position at best lasts 87 days, and for execution sites it takes, you won't believe, even eight months. So, a civil servant in an executive position, to be admitted, has been going on for eight months. This leads to executives, in one way or another, avoiding the provisions of this law, using various other forms of working engagement, whether they are working relationships, or perhaps even outside the scope, even labour contracts, which, by their nature, would have to be out of part-time bodies. Unfortunately, it has been used in the past three years. ''From word to word we can accept what Mr. Milan Markovic said, because we know that this is true and this is what we talked about, talk and talk about. Again, the question remains – what about those who have abused the law in this way, who have abused their position in this way? Are they promoted? Did they get fired? Were they disciplinary? That's what would be interesting to the citizens of Serbia, and to these dear guests of ours, young people, who came to see us and hear us from the gallery. Of course, they do, too, if they have moms or dads employed by the state administration or some municipality, that they understand me better, whether they're going to be out of business with these laws. Unfortunately, dear children, 10,000 people in Serbia will be out of work because the ruling majority is passing these three laws. Next, Mr. Secretary was talking about the value of the work. It says, "The civil servant's work is being evaluated. When a public official doesn't get a satisfactory grade, he goes to an emergency evaluation, within a month. It's a chance to repair his work within a month. Mr. Minister, I didn't understand that this is about someone having to fix their work within a month, but I understood that someone was looking for an emergency evaluation because they suspected it was properly evaluated and that it would have to go to an emergency evaluation, not go to juvie school, go to Pacia school, three months didn't work well, so another month later it's going to work, the turkey pick doesn't apply to what he didn't do well. No, it's just that this formulation and this law question the reality of the evaluation, the impartiality of the evaluation. You said yourself, I'll quote you further, that there have been bad evaluation experiences. As long as there are no clear criteria, these abuses will be present. That's a big problem. Now that you're regulating this by law, and earlier on, it doesn't change the fact that a minister, or a boss, doesn't matter which rank, is going to give a negative assessment to someone whose superior, or manager, just because he didn't get a barrel, or because he doesn't like it because he knows it's different political orientations, and unfortunately it's going to be what happens when this law comes into force. You, Minister, also spoke of disciplinary responsibility. And that's when I distracted you, so I wouldn't warn you. You said it was interesting to come to work in an alcoholic state and that it could only be led under some kind of unworthy behavior. You say – we have now predicted this as a major violation of labour discipline and I must say, unfortunately for us, this was necessary. ''It was necessary, or there is, unfortunately, people who were unable to refrain from using alcohol, or who could not refrain from coming to work in an alcoholic state. ''Although the Law on Civil Servants did not provide for this, there is a Labour Relations Act, which since 1991, therefore, long before you called democracy, prohibited, or envisioned the sanctioning of coming to work in an alcoholic state. So, there was an opportunity to prevent it, i.e. to punish people who thus violate labour discipline, but also this finding of yours, Mr. Minister, remains, again, for the sake of the public, without answering the question – what happens to people who, as you say here unfortunately couldn't resist alcohol, who came to work in an alcoholic state and I don't know how they did the job they were getting money for? Next, the minister who doesn't like to quote, so he's probably out, he said, quote again...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-18-0.u30712	People's MPs, please do not violate the Rules of Procedure, Rule 104. You cannot speculate on the reasons for the minister's behaviour in your presentation, so I warn you not to violate the Rules of Procedure. Since I interrupted you, before we continue to work, let me inform you that part of today's session, from 13.30 p.m., from the gallery of the Great Hall of the National Assembly, will be followed by representatives of the student parliaments of four secondary schools from Prokuplje, and this is: Radoš Jovanovic High School of Agriculture, Alexa Savic High School of Medicine, High School of Engineering "15. May" and High School. With us today: Jelić Nikola, Vesović Petar, Dimitrijevic Milica, Đurđevska Nikolina, Mladenović Milos, Jeftic Marina, Marković Jelena, Stamenković Mladen, Stanković Ivan, Kocić Nevena, Jovanovic Nina, Ilic Jovan, Žugić Dragutin, Ristic Stefan, Marijanović Radmila, Milošević Jelena, Mijajlović Miona, Dragoljub Radosavljević, Cvetković Milos, Petrović Ivan, Kalicanin Dragan and Leposavljević Marko. Welcome to your house, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The People's Parliament of the Witch of Radeta. You used 15 minutes, a total time of authorized representatives, and two minutes from the MP's group. If you want, you can continue, I just remind you that we respect Article 104 when we speak. If you want, you can sign up and continue your exposure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-18-0.u30713	I signed up, of course I want to move on. It's just amazing how you interrupted me, why you and how you interrupted me. When I saw these kids at the gallery, and I said I said hello, and of course I don't mind...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-18-0.u30714	People's MPs, you were interrupted for violating Article 104. I now warn you twice that you cannot violate Article 104 that you cannot address a minister or any other participant. I ask the MPs of Momir Markovic and Sulejman Spah not to earn. I also give a warning to MP Momir Markovic and MP Sulejman Spah. It is inadmissible under Article 104. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, that any part of the session in its presentation should be touched by the views and reasons for the actions of the other participants in the session, and I have warned you of that. Please do not continue to violate Article 104. It's in the interest of all of us to respect the Rules of Procedure. Please reapply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-18-0.u30715	Thank you. I ask you to respect Article 27, and I really don't know why you drew my attention to Article 104, to the mention of the Minister, when I didn't mention the Minister at all, and, on the other hand, you said, "You don't let me, I don't know what address the Minister. How am I supposed to talk to a man who's not here? I really don't see...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-18-0.u30716	People's MPs, you've been warned of respect twice. Now I'm warning you and reminding you of Article 103. By looking at the stenogram, you can see how I react by applying the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask you to respect the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, given that we are all obliged to do so and to allow each chairman to apply Article 27. Please sign in. Go ahead, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-18-0.u30717	Ladies and gentlemen, respected citizens of Serbia, at this moment we are talking about the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on civil servants, which provides, I am talking about the spirit of the law, an increase in the number of employees in the state administration, and only from the ranks of the parties of the ruling regime. On the one hand, 10,000 will lose their jobs in the state administration and local self-government. On the other hand, we have a bill that will allow for further abuse, just as Minister Markovic, when he spoke in the principle debate, told us that he exists in the application of this law, and that as a minister, for three years now, let me say that he has tolerated it, because the fact that he brought it up himself; I would say - suffer, but I fear that Mrs. Comic will distract me that it is an ugly word. What else did Mr. Milan Markovic say? "Enough is said in our public, and in practice it has been observed that there is a rather casual attitude of civil servants towards the work they do and it is very important to tighten disciplinary responsibility. ''I think it is very important to sharpen and criminal, let alone disciplinary responsibility, because I spoke about the previous item of the agenda, the abuses of both the Privatisation Agency and the Anti-Corruption Council, and the Public Enterprise "Vode Vojvodina", concrete names, and government officials, people who receive salaries from the pockets of Serbian citizens, that is, from the budget of the Republic of Serbia. Why am I even quoting what the minister was saying? For the simple reason I expect the minister to listen to it, to remind himself of it and to respond to the indeterminateities of these statements, because if he realized there were problems like this, and he didn't do anything, then he's doing his job badly. If he's done anything, then we need to be commended here for what he's done and to contribute to the quality of the service of the state. Mr. Markovic says – simply, we have done this law, I hope, that the state administration itself will be far more functional, i.e. that the executives can bring state administration to the needs of work, because this so far, I say, is a very dysfunctional system, and it has a lot of impact on the quality of work. I'm just asking -- how can someone afford to be at the head of one ministry for three years and not do anything, so that after three years, they can say that we still have a very dysfunctional system, which is reflected in the quality of the work? We Serbian radicals have been saying this years ago and this is a confirmation by the resolute minister, but it remains an amazing fact that nothing is done to overcome these problems. Here, for a short while, two or three sentences, I also quote what Mr. Milan Markovic said: "In 90 days from the day of entry into force of this law, everyone is obliged, the executives of the body, to initiate the procedure for filling the position. If the Authority's managers fail to do so, the Human Resources Service will, by force of the law, initiate a procedure to fill the position. In addition, since there was a competition going on, and organ leaders don't choose anyone and then peace and quiet again for six months, or a year, we also predicted that, by automatedity, as soon as the executive informs that he didn't choose someone on the list, the staff department is renewing the competition again.' If it was happening, and the minister says it is, to pass the contest without the organ leaders choosing anyone, and then again, as the minister says, peace and quiet, I believe the minister from word to word, I really ask him to say, for the sake of the public, or let the public conclude himself, what is the role of the minister and the government and the other ministers? If they knew these things were happening to them in the ministries, why didn't they do anything? In fact, they silently supported the abuse of positions and violations of regulations. Furthermore, the minister says, "That's how the service will keep renewing the competition, if these things are repeated, and I think this will be a good mechanism for setting up positions, because those executives who don't put state officials in positions, or if they don't conduct a competition, will really have a lot of pressure on the government's sittings themselves," they all got chilly, "and probably in public, too, to perform positions". How is this gonna get to the public? Who's going to publish this? What kind of pressure will it be from the government? These are questions we have not received an answer, in particular we have not received an answer to the question – were there so far pressure from the government, has the government affected its ministers to work in accordance with the law, or is it true what we Serbian radicals claim, not only in this area but in all areas, that members of the government, that regime people do not do their work in accordance with the Constitution or in accordance with the law? Mr. Milan Markovic says: "The fact is that this law is in favour of more rational work and more rational administration, among other things, the status of the unscheduled cannot last more than six months, it can only last two months." Furthermore, the minister states that there has been thought even if there is no need for this term at all, i.e. the possibility of unscheduled etc. Mrs. Komic, I'm sorry, I'm afraid that again, I just don't know why, you don't say, as you like to say, a warning, but I have to notice that Mr. Milan Markovic is not present in the O.R. and I don't know if he has any intention of answering any of these questions I've asked him on behalf of the SRS Parliamentary Group. We know, too, that, we don't know for which, I guess, only his known reasons, he left the session and during the principle debate. For some reason he was upset with our discussion, that's what he said; these are not insinuations, nothing personal, nothing private, please, but again I can quote everything. I quoted Mr Milan Markovic as saying, first of all, because of the public, Serbian citizens heard everything he said, which, in fact, means he's not doing his job well and he admitted it here. I just read here today what he confessed and I ask you, Mrs. Komic, to ask the most beautiful Mr. Minister to come to the O.R. and to officially communicate with the MPs, because it is his obligation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-18-0.u30718	It's been spent 10 minutes and 30 seconds since the Parliament Group's time. As I look, under Article 27, in order at the session, I remind all the MPs that every proposing representative has the right to leave the session, shorter or longer, to perform other tasks, as well as every other participant of the session, therefore, every MP. Minister Milan Markovic has one short obligation and will return to the session. Let me say it again, since it's obviously not clear. Every proposing representative has the right to a short date and I remind you that the only minister who really didn't leave the session for a minute was Minister Nebojsa Bradic, in all four mahs, as he attended the National Assembly sessions. That is why other authorised representatives will record the objections they hear from the MPs. On Article 23, the amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk letter from the Prophet of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-18-0.u30719	There's no reason to be in a hurry, Mrs. Comic, since I can't handle these machines of yours, so I'm a little late for reporting. I'm kidding, of course. My colleague Sreto Peric asked you from the scene, but he should not have been a little louder, so you probably wouldn't have warned him, and now I'm asking you – what does this mean for longer or shorter breaks? Does this mean that the minister's obligation can be, now it's two hours or 13:45, that this shorter obligation lasts until 16 hours, when all these laws pass, or is there some time to be tolerated? In any case, since you are very zealously applying the Rules of Procedure and you are very zealously informing us of everything that is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, you should have informed us, if you knew, and obviously did, that Mr Milan Markovic has been leaving the session for so long and so long, out of some obligations, and then asked the MPs whether they were willing to participate in the work in the absence of the minister, or that, as you do otherwise, you and Mrs Djukić-Dejanović, however, not until recently, whenever there are no representatives of the Government, or an authorised representative of the promoter, a pause is made until someone does the work that interferes with him from the work of the National Assembly. I say to you that no job can and must be more than a job in Parliament. So, the amendment submitted by our colleague Dejan Mirovic is an amendment to Article 23, where he proposed to be a member of 23. The bill is deleted, but Article 23 refers to Article 60 of the basic law. A member of the 60th basic law, whose amendments are now on the agenda, speaks of the failure of a public competition. The text of a law still in force stated that the public competition failed if the commission found that no candidate had met the criteria prescribed for the election. All candidates are informed of the failure of the public competition. We in the SRS are of the opinion that this should not have changed, that this is comprehensive, these two positions of Article 60, that they have regulated what is the essence of this member. We do not understand why you suggested that the public competition failed if the competition committee found that no candidate involved in the election procedure met the criteria prescribed for the election. That the public competition failed, all candidates participating in the election process are informed. It was said that the commission found that no candidate had met the criteria prescribed for the election, and you are now saying – the commission found that no candidate who participated in the election procedure had met the criteria. So, it's not what you suggested something that needs to be attacked drastically now, but why did we submit the amendment? To draw attention to the government, and, above all, to the public, that this law has not been passed because of these formalities, it is not shortcomings, but, let's say, complements etc. It can do both, can be an existing solution, and it can also be the one that you have proposed, but the bottom line is that this law hides several members that will allow people to be admitted for a certain time, the reception of people in internal competitions, the delivery of decisions by competition committees beyond the General Administrative Procedure Act. provisions on personal delivery. That is the essence, and you have only here proposed a number of members to get the impression that from some sincere initiatives you are proposing amendments and additions to this law. No, your intentions are extremely dishonest. You want to protect all your party personnel in the state administration with this law and protect the future party personnel you will receive when 10,000 people are fired. This is the essence of the adoption of this law, and that is why we have intervened to this member, precisely to draw attention, first of all, to the public of Serbia, to the dishonest and ill intentions of the Government of the Republic of Serbia when it comes to the law on amendments and additions to the Law on civil servants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-18-0.u30720	Five minutes and 15 seconds have been used since MP group time Does anyone else want a word? (No) On Article 24, the amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk letter from the Prophet of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-18-0.u30721	Article 24 speaks of Article 61(2) and says that this position 61 is amended by this Article 24, and Article 61 speaks of an internal and public competition in other state bodies. The completion of executive posts in other state bodies shall be subject to the provisions of this law on internal and public competition in the authorities of the government and government services, with the exception of the provisions on the composition of the competition commission and the competence of the staff management service. You have not changed this attitude and there is no reason to change it, as there was no reason to change this second attitude. The second view was that the composition of the competition commission, professional training, knowledge and skills assessed in the electoral procedure, the way they check and the criteria for the selection of jobs are prescribed – for the courts, the Supreme Court of Serbia, for the public prosecutors, the Republic Public Prosecutor, and for the other state authorities – bodies designated by their acts. You are now adding, instead, the position that says – The composition of the competition commission, the expertise, the knowledge and skills assessed in the electoral process, the way they check and the criteria for choosing jobs – for courts and public prosecutors, the minister responsible for the judiciary, and for the other state authorities – bodies designated by their acts. This is one of the very dangerous members, who is deeply intruding at the independence of the judicial authorities, that is, independence and independence when it comes to public prosecutorial functions. How do you mind that the Supreme Court of Serbia, or the Republic Public Prosecutor, determines these criteria, but now the composition of a competition committee for judicial work is determined by the minister responsible for the judiciary and for the other state authorities, by the bodies designated by their acts? How can other state authorities foresee their acts of the body that will determine this matter, and you end independence in that part of the judicial body, of course, not only in that area, by abolishing independence and independence, by bringing these acts by the minister? This is really something I repeat, not that it's not good, but it's very dangerous, and I don't know if Mrs. Malovic, who swears to implement these judicial reforms and that they will be the best in the world, saw what kind of hot potatoes you've got on her? This is direct interference with the judicial authorities, direct interference of the executive authority in the judicial branch of power. You're messing around by not allowing them their budget. You're also messing with the fact that you won't let them use court fees in accordance with their decisions. You partyly interfere with the choice of courts and prosecutors, and the Secretary of State, Mr. Homen, speaks of it in public in the media, informs judges that 500 of them are out of work, just not yet telling them which 500 is. Let them have some, let them burn on quiet fire, until he decides to let them know about it. Why don't you accept this amendment, gentlemen of the Government of the Republic of Serbia? You don't accept, you say, because the provisions of this member only apply to execution jobs in courts and public prosecutors. Where is the autonomy of the judicial authorities if they can't and the enforcement jobs to bring, to establish criteria? What does that mean? What does that mean – it's about executive jobs? Yeah, it's about office employees. Aren't they directly related to judges, to the work of judicial authorities, or are they related to the Ministry of Justice, so the minister or someone from the Ministry will be able to turn the office around and say, "Hello, listen, girls, the subject of which you have now received shelter, don't give it to the judge?" Is that how you, or do you want to influence through this law on courts and on the public prosecutor's office? You have a bad policy, gentlemen of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-18-0.u30722	Four minutes and 45 seconds have been used since the Parliament Group. Anyone else want a word? (No) On Article 24, the amendment was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 25, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. That the line wants a word? (No) On Article 28, the amendment was submitted by MP Vlatko Ratkovic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee does not have a report, so that this amendment, as well as others, will be declared in the voting day. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 36, the amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Rade. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk letter from the Prophet of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-18-0.u30723	Article 36. The proposal for this law speaks of a member of the 103rd basic law, so in order to know what we are talking about, we should certainly pay attention to Article 103. Article 103 speaks of the concept of a trainee. The trainee is the first person to establish a working relationship in his profession and is trained for independent work. This is an attitude that has not been changed, but was still in the existing law and second position, which he said – the trainee based working relationship on indefinite times, after a public competition was implemented, which has also not been changed and which is fine, but between these two positions two unnecessary – extremely, working relationship in the status of trainees can also be based on a person who was in a working relationship with another employer shorter than the time established for a traineeship in the degree of education that is a condition for working on these jobs. We in the SRS think it is necessary and that it is the government's obligation to provide as many jobs as possible, not only the 200,000 that Boris Tadic promised, so he forgot, but much more than that. We don't mind when you open up the possibility of anyone getting a job, but you can't make exceptions like this, because these exceptions open up the possibility of abuse. That's what we're trying to do, whenever we comment and criticise the bill, to distract you from doing yourself a bear service, because you who apply this law will come into a situation, for these or those reasons, that you abuse laws. Of course, then it'll come back to you. In this 2nd position, you've allowed someone to stop a traineeship even before the time. Then you have a very interesting 3rd position – the time spent in a working relationship with other employers is not included in the traineeship. How? He's not gonna be an intern a hundred times, is he? He's an intern in one job, as a lawyer, as an intern, for example, in one firm, and there they tell him – enough, we don't need you anymore. You worked for free or for those money we get from the Employment Fund to do that internship, and he's getting hired somewhere else. Then they say -- that company there was doing auto transport, and we're doing textile production, which, by the way, doesn't exist in Serbia, and now you have to be an intern again. This is really amazing. In particular, what you have in total is these two positions that you have added to Article 103 of this Article 36. Since we just got this opinion from the government, I haven't been able to read and see why the government doesn't accept the amendment. It says – it is not accepted because the proposed provision allows for the reception of trainees and when it comes to persons who have previously had a working experience in the profession. ''Considering the obligation of the program for professional training of trainees, the time of previous work in the profession does not count on the traineeship. '"I said earlier that I didn't read the explanation why you didn't accept the amendment, but you heard that I acted as if I did. I know exactly what the government can answer. So don't do this in the interest of young people, because when it comes to trainees, it's mostly about young people, you don't do this in their interest, you do this in the interests of employers who will only receive trainees for a period of time to pay them the unemployment fund. Also, a bad solution, a bad law, a bad provision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-18-0.u30724	The time used by the Parliament Group is two minutes. Anyone else want a word? (No) On Article 41, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. Anyone else want a word? (No) On Article 42, the amendment was submitted by MP Vlatko Ratkovic, Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration, the amendment. The Legislative Committee does not have a report and will be declared on it, as well as on other amendments, the Assembly, in the voting day. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 47, the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 54, the amendment was submitted jointly by MPs Milos Aligrudic, Jovan Palalic and Aleksandar Pejcic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has the People's Messenger Milos Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-18-0.u30725	We are here faced with the motion that the Proposer would like to propose six of the 11 members to the High Official Council. That's the essence of the law I'm submitting the amendment to. We asked to delete it. To teach you how to react here, it didn't occur to us, because it's the only way to respond to such insolence. In your explanation you wrote the following – the amendment is not accepted. It's said, now this is phenomenal, by the provisions of Article 12. The Ministry Act is prescribed that the Ministry of State Administration and Local Self-Government, among other things, performs the tasks of state administration relating to: the system of state administration and organisation and the work of ministries and special organisations and working relations in state bodies. Accordingly, it is okay for the minister to propose six of the 11 members of the High Official Council. I have a much better suggestion for you than we could write it down. Turns out it's a joke on paper he can't take, but verbally he can. You do that high-ranking council. What needs to be done by the High Official Council put in charge of the Ministry of Administration, i.e. the State Administration, and you solved the problem. It's so simple. I repeat, remove the High Official Council, so that you do not make a joke, and what should be done by the High Official Council put into the direct jurisdiction of the Minister, because this fully fits in with your reasoning that you have given by refusing our amendment, which all, under Article 12, the Ministry of State Administration is doing. Is that a problem? According to this amendment, the way you think about it, I don't see any problem. Where do you get the idea to write a provision that out of the 12 members of High Council 6 is appointed by the minister, or is it proposed by the minister? What – suggests, that means, directly affects their choice and there is the end of the story. That's why we asked to erase this.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-18-0.u30726	Anyone else want a word? If not, on Article 55, the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 55, the amendment was submitted jointly by MPs Milos Aligrudic, Jovan Palalic and Aleksandar Pejcic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has the People's Messenger Milos Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-18-0.u30727	You see, it was necessary to conduct a public competition to select those persons who would be in a state position. The public competition, mainly, has not been conducted to date. If we look back, for a year this government has been in operation, nothing has been done in this year to get this job done. Given this fact, we have amended your article 55 of this law, which, once again related to Article 57, envisioned a procedure in which the whole thing is delayed for a certain period of time, in order to give the government time to call a competition for public officials, for officials, and thus, in a way, justify or absorb this entire period of time that is behind us in which nothing has been done. I don't think the state can wait. We have suggested that on the date of entry into force of this law, solutions have been made to initiate the procedure for filling unfulfilled positions. If no candidate is proposed after the public competition or if the Government fails to appoint the proposed candidate, the Staff Management Service shall advertise a new public competition, etc., and the Prime Minister shall inform the National Assembly of this. Then you tell us in your explanation – the amendment is not accepted for the reasons set out in the explanation that no amendment under regular number 30 has been accepted. Zoran Krasic, who is required to delete this member. That's two fundamentally different things. What does it have to do with each other? You are also saying this – in addition, the process of putting a person in a position within the meaning of the Law on Civil Servants is not in the jurisdiction of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Well, we didn't even say that. It does not assume the National Assembly's jurisdiction to conduct the competition or to call a competition. We bring a general standard which, faced with the reality that those who need to enforce the laws of this home do not want to implement them, that then and under these circumstances, one procedure, which you say is not the garden to start, is considered to be the beginning. It's a general norm. It's not the execution of individual acts, so your reasoning doesn't drink water. The government is not doing its job, and it is obvious that the state, or state authorities, which are competent to pass general legal acts, must in some way react, force the Government to complete one of the jobs given to them in jurisdiction. If he can't start it, he'll be deemed to have started it, so go ahead, work on it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-18-0.u30728	From the time of the Parliament group, one minute and 15 seconds have been used. Anyone else want a word? If not, on Article 56, the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 57, the amendment was submitted jointly by MPs Milos Aligrudic, Jovan Palalic and Aleksandar Pejcic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has the People's Messenger Milos Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-18-0.u30729	We've told you nicely this amendment that you need to end this joke about extending deadlines for public competitions, that is to say to put civil servants in positions. What does that make sense? Then the government will report again in half a year, a year, to the National Assembly, and they will say, "Let's re-change the Civil Service Act again, to extend the deadline by one year." We have to get somewhere in the way, somewhere we have to say it's the end, and we've come to some waterhouse, that from that moment on, there's no longer any extension of deadlines. This way, anyone who comes to power, or one of the same ministers during one term, can always find some great reasons why one important job has not been done and that requires an extension of the deadlines. So as much as you've seen in the government that there's no point in an amendment that we're saying shouldn't extend the deadlines for putting a person in a position, so much as we feel, even with more rights, that there's no longer any point in endlessly extending those deadlines, but the most meaningful thing is to do the law a certain job.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-18-0.u30730	Anyone else want a word? If not, to Article 66, the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Since we have completed the examination of the draft law in particular, Article 144. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly obliges me to ask if the motionary's representative wishes to give the final word. Given that Minister Milan Markovic is not present in the O.R. right now, there is no point in even asking that question. I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 10th point of the agenda – Proposal for the Law of the Republic of Slovenia by the Members of the Republic of Slovenia for the amendments submitted by the People's MPs: Momo Čolaković, Aleksandra Janković, Đuro Perić, Tomislav Nikolić, Zoran Antic, Veroljub Arsić, Zoran Babić, Jelena Budamirović, Božidar Delić, Stefan Zankov, Otto Kišmarton, Milan Knezevic, Sašan Mašić, Zoran Mašić, Predrag Mijatović, Ljiljana Miladović, Borisa Pošurić, Gojko Radić, Mićo Rogović, Vučetaković, Dragan Čalić, Milanić, Milažanović, Mirjanjak, Mirjavić, Mirjanović, Mirjavić, Mirjavić, Mirjakak, Mirić, Mirko Pošažić, Milić, Mirko Poš, Milić, Mirko Poš, Mirko Poš, Mil. You have received reports from the Committee on Justice and Administration and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. I'm asking the National Assembly to inform the government's authorised representatives that they can enter the O.R. An amendment to the name of the bill. Under the name of the bill, the amendment was submitted jointly by MPs Zoran Shami, Jovan Palalic, Milos Aligrudic, Arsen Djuric, Aleksandar Pejcic and Milica Vojic-Markovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the Messenger of the people is Zoran Shami.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-18-0.u30731	Excuse me, I suggest we wait for the government's representatives, who will defend the law, to enter the O.R.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-18-0.u30732	People's MP, you asked for a word about the amendment and you got it to talk about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-18-0.u30733	What?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-18-0.u30734	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-18-0.u30735	I ask you to take a break, five or ten minutes, to wait for the representatives of the government, because there's no point in me talking only to you and my fellow Members.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-18-0.u30736	I ask the People's Messengers not to earn it. Do you want to talk about the amendment or not?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-18-0.u30737	I want a word about the amendment and I'll talk about the amendment. There's no point in me talking about the amendment if the government's representative isn't here. Please, as chairman, give a brief break for the government's representative to appear here. There's no point in discussing amendments without a proposing representative.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-18-0.u30738	People's MP, you asked for a word about the amendment. According to the Rules of Procedure, there is no breach of the Rules of Procedure. Do you want to talk about an amendment or not?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-18-0.u30739	I want to talk about the amendment, but I'll talk about it when a representative of the government shows up. I beg you again to wait for the Prime Minister...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-18-0.u30740	The duty of the session's course is to ask if anyone wants a word in the debate in the particulars. Whoever answers that they want a word gets a word. If no one wants to, I have to move on to the next amendment. Since I've been informed that the government's representatives are here, I have no reason, except for this conversation with you, to move on to the next amendment, unless you want a word. Does anyone want a word? National MP Milos Aligrudic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-18-0.u30741	You know, this is about the injury of article 27. Rules of Procedure, always the same way. The remark that I am presenting to you now because of the recent situation is in fact identical to the remarks we made in the motion to resolve Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic from the seat of the president of the National Assembly, which is currently in the process, but this does not prevent us from every time we see that the rights of MPs and citizens of Serbia are being insulted, especially if it is done by the chairman, directly injured. Therefore, Article 27 obliges the President of the National Assembly, and thus you, too, to carry on your powers, to treat the Rules of Procedure in a uniform manner, and to conduct meetings of the National Assembly and to manage the affairs that have been placed in your jurisdiction so as not to cause confusion and that there are no different arches in your conduct. It can't be given a huge break at one point because the minister isn't here, and then, back in the hour, it explains that the minister is there, he's out for a short while, and he's gone for an awful long time, and then he doesn't respect a very human, normally set request to make a short break for the minister to show up. You cannot act in one way, and the president of the National Assembly in another way in the same situations. This is not appropriate for this home, this is not appropriate for the way in which the National Assembly is to be run. That's what this story is all about. You're going to say there's no breach of the Rules of Procedure, you're going to tell me, I know everything in advance, I don't know, the minister has the right to take a walk. It's all nice and wonderful, we have the right to take a walk, but the essence of the debate is that we say something to the government or to the Prime Minister, with the possibility of getting an answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-18-0.u30742	Two minutes. Thank you. There's no damage to article 27. I assume you weren't in the O.R. when the break was set at 11:55 p.m. With insight into the stenogram, you can see that the break is determined because there was no notice from the Government who is the author and who will attend the session of the National Assembly. I made it very clear that this is the reason for a break, with a public invitation from the government to meet its obligations. By sending a notice of who is the authorised promoter, the reason for the break of such a species has ceased to exist. National MP Zoran Shami asked for a word after reading which amendment is under review in detail. It is my duty to give him my word. It is his duty to speak of this amendment. He has other options to say, he's looking for a word about hurting the Rules of Procedure, which he hasn't done, and he's got a chance not to take a word for it, which he hasn't done, either. So I ask you next time you want to comment that there has been a breach of Rules of Procedure, Article 27, follow the entire course of the session and do not expose yourself to an awkward situation to pleading false and violating Article 104, qualified the work of the chair in an inappropriate manner. National MP Milos Aligrudic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-18-0.u30743	Very short, and regarding Article 104, and I will address you directly – do not insult me. How do you know whether or not I followed the entire session? Where did you get that right? That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-18-0.u30744	Based on what you're saying, People's Messenger, I know whether you followed the course of the session or not. If you follow in the stenogram, by exhibiting which you tried to explain Article 27, it is quite obvious that you did not follow the course of the session around 11.55, or at the time I was giving reasons for the pause. I ask you, with a warning, that in a decent manner and in accordance with Article 104, you address all the participants of the session, as well as the chairman or chairman, whoever it is. National MP Milos Aligrudic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-18-0.u30745	Article 100, which speaks of the right of MPs to highlight the violation of the Rules of Procedure and of your obligations in this connection when you explain why there is or is no breach of the Rules of Procedure. If I point out that you misunderstood me, just by showing you that you hurt me, and you hurt me by deliberately trying to interpret what I said, arguing to the public, who is following this, I did not follow the course of the session, interpreting what I was saying about a previous breach of the Rules of Procedure, then you are in violation of the provision of article 100 which gives you certain obligations and rights when it comes to objections to the breach of Rules of Procedure. You can't engage with me in this kind of debate, because the right member of the 100th doesn't give it to you. I think that's where you hurt him.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-18-0.u30746	People's MP, there is no violation of article 100, because you have received a word, and none of the chairmans of any of the People's MPs enters the debate when the MP asks for a word for the violation of the Rules of Procedure, because there can be no debate. The MP gets a word based on article 100, indicates which member is injured, explains how he is injured, and the chairman is obliged to give an explanation. Therefore, there is no debate. Does anyone else want to talk about an amendment to the bill, amendments submitted jointly by MPs Zoran Shami, Jovan Palalic, Milos Aligrudic, Arsen Djuric, Aleksandar Pejcic and Milica Vojic-Markovic. National MP Milos Radulovic wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-18-0.u30747	Madam Chairman, you are violating the Rules of Procedure today, Articles 98, 100, 103, 97 and 27. The government has appointed here an authorised representative, Mr. Markovic, to be the one to defend...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-18-0.u30748	People's MP, I warn you of a violation of Article 103(1). Please talk about the agenda. You've been given your word to talk about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-18-0.u30749	I'm talking about hurting the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-18-0.u30750	Are you talking about hurting the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-18-0.u30751	Yeah, I was looking for a word to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure. You here, Madam Chairman, are violating the Rules of Procedure and making a precedent that can be very dangerous. It is precisely indicated by the Rules of Procedure that the obligation to attend each session is to be attended by an authorised representative of the Government. As far as we know, you are not a member of the government, nor are you an authorised representative. We ask, in accordance with Articles 98, 103, 93 and 27, that you interrupt the session until an authorised representative of the government arrives, that we may discuss a law that is on the agenda and that we seek answers to our questions asked.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-18-0.u30752	You are repeating the reasoning of the already-extended complaints about the breach of the Rules of Procedure, which is prohibited by Article 100. Therefore, the Assembly was informed of who was the authorised representative and I invited authorised representatives to enter the O.R. There's no need to keep working. I ask you to behave in the Rules of Procedure, which we ask that others respect him. People's MP Miloša Radulovic, you cannot get a replica of the President when you ask for a word in the Rules of Procedure. I refer to all the Members of the People for careful reading of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure to which they are called. I really ask you, because it's in the common interest of the house we work in. Whether anyone wants a word in the discussion in particular, and about the amendment – the name of the bill. MP Zoran Shami. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-18-0.u30753	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I didn't ask for a word earlier on about the breach of the Rules of Procedure, because when the Government sends you a bill like this, a man must understand that he was written by ignorant people; I was simply looking for a representative of the Government to learn something here, so I guess he learned the government, but it seemed to be a vain expectation. So the Democratic Party of Serbia has submitted an amendment to the name of the bill and I will agree with all those who would say it is quite unusual. It is unusual, but the proposed law is unusual, i.e. I think it should repeat what has already been said in the debate in principle – that it is difficult to categorize this law, and the use of an adequate attribute would be inappropriate and would violate some elemental decency. I'll try to explain what the DSS's idea of an amendment to a change in the law's name and a whole idea of all amendments to this law. By the way, since I just overdid two minutes, the rest of the time goes to the expense of an authorised representative. So, the law is, let me put it mildly, bad. He is trying to solve one problem, which undoubtedly exists, which is the problem of organising an efficient and rational administration in a completely inadequate way, starting with an axiom that there should be 28,400 unemployed in the administration. It's an axiom, for God's sake, pulled out of the sleeve. The elemental question arises – why 28,400? Maybe it's a lot, maybe it's a little, I don't know. Not that I don't know, I don't think anyone in the O.R. knows that. The Democratic Party of Serbia, as well as all others, I suppose, well-intentioned parties, understands the need to organise the state administration in an efficient and rational way, but the design of the entire venture needs to be yet to come up. For this reason, we have proposed this amendment to change the name of the law and to read – a bill on the procedure of determining the maximum number of employees in the Republic administration. So if there's a law that needs to be passed and willed to transform the administration, then let's define at least one reasonable, rational procedure that can be done. We do this procedure later, in the proper members, and we work it out. We suggest that, firstly, proposals be made for the systematicization of jobs in all administration bodies, that the government, on the basis of these proposals, make up some surplus proposal, so that, based on what it has made up, let that number be 22,000, 32,000, 28,000, 28.000, there is no one against, and then define what it will do with those who, eventually, are excess, depending on how many years of service they have, etc. So, to complete this whole procedure, and it's possible to do that, I'll tell you right now, in a very short time. I have made a systematization in this congregation in my time, suggested a job systematization in a week. It's no great wisdom. Everyone knows, about, in every ministry, in every agency, in each of the authorities of the Republic administration, what they should do, what places should be designed, which should be covered, etc. Some of the principles of European standards are, personally, inappropriate for our conditions. Not because many things do not require the use of European standards, but there are many reasons why this is inadmissible with us. There are even two reasons that are diametrically opposite. On the one hand, Europe is richer than we are. It is quite certain that he has more money to pay for government jobs and to employ more people. There are cases like this. For example, in Bundestag, four employees follow one MP. By that standard, there should be a thousand employees in this congregation. We have 349, if I'm not mistaken. I'm not saying we need to have a thousand, because we're poor, but let's come, here, to start from the Assembly, to some number that needs to exist for the Assembly to function normally. I hear that the Law, by the way, provides for a number of employees on the National Assembly, and in general, there are no employees in one of the most important sectors, such as: foreign affairs in the Assembly, there are none. On the other hand, there are jobs in Europe that don't have to be done, and codens have to be done. In European countries, if nothing else, there are no offices to join the EU, not to say that these are not just EU accession offices, but many of the jobs that were done in Europe in the 1990s, with us only now need to be done, in various spheres, from air traffic organisations, not to mention further. There are almost no areas in which you do not have to agree with some achievements, not just the EU, but, in general, the modern world. For all these reasons that I have stated, do not dispute the fact that there is a need to transform the administration, we think that this should be done in one elaborate, smart procedure and that there is a real need. Just a few more words about motive. I'm not saying motive is suspicious, motive is stupid. Excuse the expression, the motive for passing this law is stupid, because it's supposed to make some savings. First of all, there's no saving. We have heard that we are planning a budget deficit of a billion and 400m euros, and if you physically just take off salaries for 3,400 employees, or how much, it is only 12m euros a year, which is less than one per year. In fact, it's not even 12m euros, because if you refuse to, on the one hand, obviously the necessary social contributions to those who are going to lose their jobs, and they won't be able to find a new job, if, on the other hand, you withdraw from the consumption of 12m euros, if nothing else, the state loses two million on VAT, because people would spend that money on food and most essential needs. When you add it up and subtract it, the balance is, believe me, zero, not right now, but permanent. The motive, practically, does not exist, and it comes from completely inadequate means. There are, of course, more objections to many items of this law, they will be spoken of when the corresponding amendments come to the agenda and they will be spoken of later, but I thought it was necessary to say this at the beginning. I'm sorry, once again, that there is no government representative. It was a good opportunity to learn something, but since it doesn't seem worth teaching them, then we'll continue like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-18-0.u30754	I would like to thank Parliamentarian Zoran Shami for the final part of his presentation. Not to have any objections to the first part, but because of the possibility of an end to your presentation, MP, allowing me to inform the National Assembly of two informations. First, by looking after the application of Article 27, I believe that Ministers Milan Markovic, Zarko Obradovic, Mladjan Dinkic and Rasim Ljajic have violated the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly concerning timely and timely information and respect for the obligations they, as representatives of the Government, have towards the National Assembly and I ask that the National Assembly on my argument that the injured Rules of Procedure are declared in the day of voting. The other information is that we're finishing work for today and continuing tomorrow at 10 o'clock. I'm sorry, it's November 19th, it's a day off, the day of the funeral of Patriarch Paul. We continue work on Friday, November 20th, 10:00 p.m. Thank you.
