ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-18-0.u24428	Dear fellow Members of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President of the Assembly, Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, allow me to present to you, on behalf of the Ministry of Education, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, the basic views of the two sets of laws that the National Assembly will discuss today. My fellow Members of the people, I apologize, but in order to hear me better, I will still have to sit down, so that I can talk to you in a way that you can hear me. Today, on behalf of the Ministry of Education of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, I will try to show you through these two laws what the Ministry of Education and the Government of the Republic of Serbia intend to do in the area of the education and education system to improve quality. In fact, if I tried to say in a few words what the essence of the adoption of these two laws is, it could be said that the primary intention of the ministry to improve the quality of the education and education system in the Republic of Serbia, to increase efficiency, to ensure full coverage of children in Serbia, to regulate the prevention of discrimination, to improve the prevention of school violence, to improve the quality system related to the publishing of textbooks. There are many reasons for these proposals for new laws, and for the basics of education and education systems, and in particular for the adoption of a new law on textbooks and other teaching tools. The main starting point for the adoption of laws on the basis of an education and education system is the need to comply with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, with provisions relating to education in laws that are still present at this meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, or at this session, or those of the laws that are under preparation. Consistent with EU standards, with issues that represent the strategic framework of education, the position of education in the country, the need to propose new better solutions based on previous experiences and problems in practice, the different discussions that we have conducted within the Ministry of Education, the latest research that leads to the state of the education system and how to improve it, the various comparative analyses that we have done within the Ministry of Education, studies, analysis, recommendations from different partners within the education system and logical evaluation of the measures, what we have done in previous years as a pilot of programmes, in which we apply it in practice. When it comes to harmonisation, the starting point for changes is to comply with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, with provisions relating to free secondary education, compliance with EU standards, standards relating to anti-discrimination measures, indicators, languages, availability of education, then compliance with new laws, such as anti-discrimination law, the Law on Higher Education, Criminal Code, as well as, I said, the provisions of the laws which are or at this session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, such as the law on the councils of minorities, or the laws already discussed by the Government, such as the law on the rights and jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina, or the law on mobbing. I must say that the elements of the amendments to this law are also in the various development strategies adopted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia from 2003 to today. It is said that on the 2003 strategy for poverty reduction, the Millennium Development Goals 2005-2006, the National Strategy for the Accession of Serbia-Montenegro, the EU's 2009 National Plan for Integration, the previous document is the 2005 National Plan for Action for Children, the 2005 Action Plan for Roma Education and the 2009 Strategy for improving the situation of Roma, the 2007 National Strategy for Regional Development, the 2005 National Employment and Action Plan, the 2005 Strategy for the Development of the Information Society, the Strategy for the Development of the position of persons with disabilities, the 2006 Strategy for Ageing, the 2008 Strategy for Sustainable Development, the 2008 Youth Strategy for Youth, the 2008 Strategy for the Development of Adults with the 2006-2009 Action Plan and the Strategy for the Development of Middle Professional Education with the Action Plan. We have sought to include in this law experience from successful pilot programmes that are already being implemented in the education system. The starting point for changes are, in addition to the experiences mentioned to introduce new profiles in secondary vocational education, and experience with programmes to involve Roma children in education and education systems, then experience of violence prevention programmes, experience of inclusive education programmes, self-valuation and privileged evaluation of institutions and evaluations of implemented programmes and measures. We also wanted to remove problems identified in practice in the application of the previous law by this bill. The main starting point for the changes concerns the work of the educational inspection, the responsibility of the school boards, the authority of the parent council, the authority of the student parliaments, the responsibility of the director, the selection of directors, the evaluation of the subject and the rule. The need for legal solutions also stemmed from the analysis of the situation and solutions from the analysis of the situation. We think of ourselves as being educated, I dare say smart society, but the facts say that we have and how much to do to achieve these goals in the way that Serbia needs it. According to the 2002 census, we have at this time in Serbia, or at least there was, and we will see in the following year when a new census is made, about 1,350,000 people who are either illiterate or illiterate, of which about 350,000 people are illiterate, and others have one to three or seven classes of elementary school. When you look at these data, you can see that 23.9% of the older than 15 years have only primary school. When these figures are looked at through percentages, 21.9% over 15 years of age does not have a complete primary education and 44.2% of women in the country do not have a complete primary school. What is the result of all this – of course, the untapped human potential, the very difficult employability of these people with such a degree of education or lack of education and the logically enormous giving of the state to improve the social status of these employees. We are also not satisfied with the quality of education because the quality of education has dropped in recent years. The fact is that we have several extraserial talents, children who are fantastic in those areas where they work, regardless of whether they're maths, physics, astronomy and other disciplines, but our level is falling and the number of those quality kids is smaller. Different international tests have shown that our children have lower achievements, 60 to 70 points, in terms of mathematical and scientific literacy compared to OECD average and about 100 points for reading literacy. In order to compensate for the lack of our students, it would take another year and a half to two and a half years of education in OECD countries. Of course, we can find justification in the words that these tests are made by an educational system that is not compatible with ours and of course we can find an explanation in other reasons, but as a country that is on its way to the EU and is part of European integration, and as a country that is subject to an assessment of the quality of the education system based on these tests, we must do everything to improve the functionality of our children and, of course, in this respect show that we are close to others, if not the same or better. According to EU criteria, about 40 to 50% of our students would be assessed as functionally illiterate. Our education system almost half the children fail to prepare for life in the EU. The fact is, our system isn't effective. When you look at the budget structure of the Ministry of Education you face, we and the public, with frantic data that 96.69% of the budget of the Ministry of Education goes to personal incomes and personal income expenses, while there remains only 3.31% for everything else. And that's all – preschool, primary, secondary and high, and student loans, and student loans, and scholarships, and student standard, and student standard, and equipment and investment, and various educational institutions and their work and the structure of the budget of the Ministry of Education. We stand out below 4% of gross social product for education and new EU members about 5%. I already mentioned that the allocations for teachers' salaries are 96%, and in most countries the EU is around 73%. The fact is that more investment in capital projects will not significantly affect the quality of education. It's got to be done on one and the other. We have a very old network of schools and 500 objects over the age of 95. We need to work on building these facilities, but we need to see how the system of education changes from within and make it better. Our school network is obsolete, it doesn't monitor demographic movements, the number of teachers is growing, and the number of students is decreasing, the number of private classes is growing. Think for yourself about these reasons and the consequences. There is an insufficient justice of the education system, a drowsiness from all levels of education. We're satisfied with the children in that prep class, but at the age of three to five years, the coverage is less than 45% of children. The preparatory preschool programme; the smallest coverage of children in the area is those children who need it most, the preparatory preschool programme and children from poor and rural areas, Roma children and children with developmental disorders. The primary school finishes 95% of children, about 74% of children from villages, and unfortunately, by different estimates, only 21 to 37% of Roma. At the level of high school aged 15 to 18 years, at that included high school ends about 76.42%, and at least children from Roma settlements, only 10% and unfortunately Roma girls. What we wanted by this law to do for better education is equality, to raise quality, competitiveness of education and, of course, to achieve the efficiency of education. What's new? We wanted to move the focus of education and education towards quality, justice and efficiency. When it comes to improving quality, first and foremost in the field of quality of teaching, look at the goals of education and education, because we consider it to be modern goals and general outcomes that are in line with the education system as the basis of a knowledge-based society, for developing new knowledge and skills for the 21st century. This includes literacy, ecology, entrepreneurship, learning to learn, intensity for life in modern society, professional competences in accordance with standards and interests, demands of modern economy, science, techniques and technology. We have provided a new advice for secondary vocational education and adult education and new centres for adult education and education. At the level of quality improvement, the element of quality improvement are standards, both general standards, outcomes and achievements of children and students, what are their basic competences, and their specific educational standards and achievements by cycles, by classes, by subjects, standards of knowledge, skills, valuable attitudes for teachers and educators, or their competences. Also the standards and competences of directors, secular inspectors, educational advisors, quality of textbooks, because that's what the funds are all about, the quality standards of work of institutions. The improvement in quality also refers to the quality of the socialization role of the school. Of course, I have already mentioned the ban on discrimination, the ban on violence, and all of them, without abandoning anyone, and besides the ban on abuse and neglect, and, of course, the improvement of quality are also set mechanisms for early detection, comprehensive response, including family, local community and, of course, predictable punishment. The quality improvement element is also the quality of teachers, enhanced education, enhanced professional training, the existence of a professional training centre and the possibility of suspension of a licence. So everyone has to keep in mind that during their work they keep working on their promotion, improving quality, improved introduction to work, trial work, prep, for those who don't keep teaching on their own. The quality improvement element is also the quality of management, training and exams are envisaged for the director, the selection procedure of the director, the clearer role of the parent's advice, the more precise participation of students in decision-making has been corrected. The quality improvement element is also the quality of supervision. A clearer regulation of certain procedures, position, role, authority, job advisers, associates has been carried out, and simplified mechanisms of appeal have been described. The opinion of parents and students is included, quality and self-evaluation of schools are ensured, and of course, cooperation between consultants and institutions in the assessment of the quality of work of the institution. It is also a new increase in justice in the education system, because we believe that the new principles of education clearly highlight the priority of access to education for all, the rights of the child are strengthened. There is also the power of the Ministry to take measures for new policies that increase justice, to have extracurricular students, to have a new council on secondary vocational education and new tasks for the centre. Teachers' obligations are to teach extras. Prevention of rash and timely access to preschool education and continued educational support through education. The element of increasing justice is also the inclusion of marginalised groups, envisioning setting up a teaching assistant to communicate with parents and children, affirmative actions, clear anti-discrimination measures. Registration policy, which does not discriminate on anyone, raising the educational level of the population and increasing employment opportunities, obtaining some of the species after primary education, recognising previous learning is mentioned for the first time, providing support for teaching language, which is very important for refugees and displaced persons, as well as for returnees. The element of increasing justice is the inclusion of children with developmental disorders and disability, a new parent's registration policy that will choose whether to enroll a child in special or regular schools. Individual educational plans, additional support, guidance and counselling are foreseen instead of categorization, a personal assistant can enter school. Final exams have been adjusted. Special schools can be networked with regular schools. The element of increasing efficiency is that this law opens up the possibility of normative funding per student, a child from 2014, I mention this because we are now in 2009. The economic price should cover all current expenditure per child, i.e. the student from all funding choices. The economic price will also be affected by a specific area and belonging to a particular group, levels and types of education and the necessary number of employees. We will have until then the opportunity to verify the value of this system through piloting models and mechanisms, in 2011. Of course, the monitoring of the effects of education becomes mandatory and a unique information system of education is formed. Of course, it is an obligation for schools to collect and update data and that there is a possibility of better school planning. What's new for students, for teachers, and what's new in surveillance? When it comes to news about students, all children are enrolled in school. Free education and education for all children in the year before going to school and primary education, we expanded the preschool preparation program from six to nine months, until now it was six and from now on nine. We have provided for access under the same conditions to foreign citizens, citizens without citizenship, as well as exiled and displaced persons. The examination is done by enrolment in school. There is continued educational support, experts, assistants, teams, free secondary education and regular and extraordinary students. When it comes to teachers, what's new for teachers? The professional preparation of teachers and professional associates is consistent with Bologna. Employment conditions are extended to all employees who are in contact with children. An intern trainee and external associate, a pedagogical-psychological education in at least 30 points, a clarification of the conditions for suspension and withdrawal of a licence, is introduced, and direct work with children is foreseen instead of pedagogical norms. Regular, supplementary, additional, individualized, preparatory and other forms, teachers with 60% working time, teacher of practical classes with 26 hours, educators of 50% preschool prep programme, educators 75%. When it comes to supervision, the duties of inspectors have been extended, monitoring the protection of the rights of children, pupils, their parents, or guardians and employees, the exercise of the rights and obligations of employees, students and their parents, or guardians and the protection of children of pupils and employees against discrimination, violence, abuse, neglect, party organisation and operation and prescribed records to be conducted. It'll all be part of the surveillance. When it comes to what's not new, I've got to do a little dissection. As a basis for the adoption of this law, we had the 2003 Law on the Fundamentals of Education and Education, which was amended in 2004, and certain amendments were foreseen in 2006. We kept the structure of that law from 2003 and 2004. The objective content of the change was over 50% of the members in this law and therefore it is a new law on the foundations of the education system. Of course, there's a lot left and there's an existing one. What remains is the system structure, preschool, prep programme, four plus four primary school classes, three or four grade high school, final exams after eight, 11 or 12 years. But we have extended the duration of the preparatory preschool programme from six months to nine months, they have added new forms after primary education, there are various forms of vocational education that have been introduced into the system, the education of adults has been regulated. I mention this because adult education remains one of the elements that does not exist in our education system. We have foreseen through this advice on secondary vocational education and adult education and through this law to create a basis for the adoption of adult education laws. They would do so at the end of the current year, where they would essentially recognise informal education through the law, and additional vocational education and lifelong learning. Then our education system would make it essentially complete. Then we'd have preschool education, have basic education, and secondary education, and higher education and have adult education and, of course, recognition of previous learning. The institutions for the development of education have not been changed. There are still advices and delusions, but the new advice on professional education and adult education is part of the elements of their work I have already mentioned. The new tasks of the Centre for Professional Education and Adult Education and the competences of these bodies have been refined. The management and control structure is unchanged. There is advice from parents, director, educational inspection, local and republican, educational advisors in school administration. We've done a lot of things in our opinion to clarify responsibility and authority, and we've added powers to monitor discrimination, violence. What else is unchanged? Program regulation, plan and program school, but is based on standards, flexibility of how to work and adapt to a child. What we want to achieve by applying this law, and I mention this once again, is equality, quality and competitiveness and efficiency. We want to go to the Ministry of Education, and I think all you fellow MPs want, to see more kids in schools, to have a better atmosphere, to have more successful teachers, to have more data, to have adults in schools. One word, we all have better results. At the end of this law, something I might have mentioned at the beginning, but I overlooked. This law was the subject of a public debate. We had a public debate in Novi Sad, Nis and Belgrade. As I am informed by some parliamentary groups, public debates have been held in many regional centres and we have really given many people from the system of education and institutions the opportunity to say their opinion on this law, simply with the desire to make it better. I would call upon fellow Members of the People's Parliament to today, when they discuss this law, no matter what they think about the content of the law, to affirm education, because education is the most important area in our country during the time ahead. Unfortunately, education doesn't have the treatment it deserves in every way. Believe me, I'm saying this as a man who's been doing this work for a year, no matter who's a minister of education and who makes a government, unless there's a state policy in the field of education that's going to have one course and permanent investment, and if it's not working on changing the content of the education system, no one else can help us. To improve the education system, we need to know what we want, what we want to change, that there is financial support. I used to talk a lot - we need time. I think we can solve a lot of problems. It's gonna take some money. Money is important, but it's not all about money, but stability is also needed, that is, the realization of these measures. I'm saying this, I've often had the habit of saying that education in media programs, both printed and electronic, is pre-sports and weather forecasts, so since without sports and weather forecasts, culture and education can't, as a rule, fall out of the citizen information system. I urge you to, no matter what you think about the law and the work and the Ministry of Education, to affirm education as a resource of crucial importance for the future development of our country, because the 21st century is promoted everywhere as a century of knowledge, and without education, there is no knowledge, so please pay attention to that too. When it comes to the second law, the law on textbooks and teaching means, I must say, it is a very important law that somehow unnecessarily remains in the other plan. It is an important law, because for the first time in multi-party Serbia, a law is passed that fully, comprehensively regulates the issue of the preparation and issue of textbooks and all elements related to the publishing of textbooks. So far, we have had the fact that a state publisher, that the basis for his work was governed by the 1993 law and that the work of the accepted publishers was arranged under the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System, the work on viewing. We now have a situation to balance both public and private publishers and in a comprehensive way to edit the system of publishing textbooks and all things related to textbooks and other teaching tools. I must tell you that in preparation for this law, we have had a number of meetings, a working group that had ten meetings, a working group in which representatives of the Ministry of Education participated, a public publisher representative, representatives of the Association of Acceptable Publishers, a representative of the university, and that all solutions or almost all solutions are the result of their common agreement. I mentioned that the last Law on textbooks was passed in 1993 and there was a need to establish a legal, institutional framework in the fields of publishing and approval of textbooks and other teaching tools, of course and regulate the competences of preparation, publishing and approval of textbooks, creating positive competition and especially ensuring the quality of textbook literature. When it comes to this law, you will see it has 50 members and this law will be complete only when the sublegal acts are passed, within six months of the date of entry into force of this law. When it comes to the content of textbook laws and other teaching tools, you will see through these 50 members, it contains the subject of the law, I must mention this in particular, it is the preparation, approval, publishing and use of textbooks and other teaching tools for pre-school, primary and secondary school, as well as the monitoring and evaluation of textbooks in the course of educational-experience work. It is not only the point that the textbook is published, but it is monitored during its use in educational and experimental work. The textbook is defined – what the textbook does, what makes the textbook set. I won't read that to you. You have the law. What's a foreign textbook? What are the other teaching tools and aids, what are the other teaching tools in educational work? It's about dictionaries and atlases, cards, posters, posters, maps, collections of texts, etc. Other educational means have been specified in preschool work, encyclopaedia, toys, musical instruments, picture books and books for children and other materials. The use of language and letters is regulated. You are a press textbook, I must mention, explicitly in the language and letter that is in official use in the Republic of Serbia, in the language of the national minority for students whose educational and educational work is done in that language and in the appropriate foreign language, but we have also provided for the possibility of performing educational and probational work with persons who use the language of the characters and the means of that language and textbooks issued in the language of characters that meet the special needs of students. We have provided for provisions that create equal opportunities for all and prohibit discrimination. We have specified who is involved in publishing textbooks, positions and public publishers and other publishers. Public publisher and private publisher, it is particularly important to point out, have equal rights and obligations, in accordance with this law and regulations providing for publication. It is precisely determined to obtain a license for textbooks, so-called textbooks, so-called textbooks. licenses, as well as the withdrawal and issuing of a new licence. It is accurately predicted that, for the sake of any of the abuses of this provision, it is correctly said that the licence is taken in the case of a judicial verdict, I must mention, by a judicial verdict that it is a falsified textbook manuscript, that the publisher has provided for the selection of textbooks with bribes or published a textbook without authors or if it does not publish the textbook according to the approved manuscript, if it does not participate in providing funds for the issue of low-tiring textbooks with a proportionate circulation and is precise when new legislation can be passed. The content of this law also includes the establishment of a textbook plan, the content of a textbook plan, the acquisition of manuscripts, the position of the reviewer's commission, the composition, the draft of publishers in manuscripts, the quality standards of manuscripts. Now I wouldn't read it to you individually because a lot is contained. I would just mention that the law contains a very precise role for all elements from the ministry to the National Educational Council, institutions, publishers, the whole way of publishing, the approval of textbooks and teaching tools and their appearance, and, of course, the content of a solution to the approval of textbooks containing several elements. Also the content of a solution to the rejection and release of a specific textbook. The supervision of the implementation of this law shall be carried out by the Ministry through educational inspectors in accordance with the law governing the basics of the education and education system. The law also provides for certain criminal provisions. It also contains a sublaw that needs to be passed in order for this law to be complete. Dear fellow Members of the People, I have tried in these thirty minutes to present to you the contents of two laws that we consider to be very important for the education and education system in the Republic. We've been informed that about 100 amendments have arrived so far. We'll see after we've finished, and this debate will be the number of amendments. I want to tell you, since I have also held talks with some parliamentary groups, along with my colleagues, that we are absolutely open to amendments that improve these laws and improve its content. If there are any systemic solutions where we differ, you will understand why we cannot accept it, but I would ask you all together to use the law debate to affirm the importance of the role of education for Serbia's future development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-18-0.u24429	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Dear Members of the Parliament, just to inform you that I received information from the Secretary-General of RTS, or the Assembly, that on Saturday 18.07.2019 at 14.00 hours and on Monday 20.07.2019 from 1800 hours due to earlier programme commitments, will not be able to be direct. We'll have a delayed transmission in that time. Do the committees want the word, the Education Committee, Mr. Jon Magda? No, I don't. ) The Committee on European Integration, Mr Laslo Varga? No, I don't. ) Mr. Vlatko Ratkovic, Chairman of the Legislative Committee? No, I don't. ) Did MP Zoran Shami, who, at the meeting of the Committee on Education, issued an opinion on the proposal for a law on the foundations of the education and education system, and MPs Donka Banović, Radica Jocic, Slobodan Samardzic and Sladjan Miljevic, who set out their opinion on the same bill at the session of the Committee on European Integration, want to explain their opinion? Yeah. Mr. Zoran Shami.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-18-0.u24430	Madam President of the Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr Minister, the law on the foundations of education and education clearly falls under very important laws and the DSS generally understands the reasons why this law was necessary. First of all, to comply with the law with the Constitution, then with some other system laws. We in the debate will in principle point to, unfortunately, numerous objections that the DSS has to this law. In this performance, I'm going to point to another fact. By the logic of things, at least we see it that way, the law on the basics of education and education cannot, or should not be political law. It is the kind of law where, regardless of all the differences in political thinking between the various political parties in this House, I do not see that everyone is not equally at heart to provide our offspring with conditions for a good systemical schooling and that, in that sense, by the logic of things, we should all be on the same side. This implies that broad consultation is carried out in the legislative process and that the best solutions are found accordingly. We heard from the minister that consultations were carried out, however, I personally was not in a position to attend any consultations before the law appeared in the Assembly. I think it's a shame we didn't come to the law in a slightly different way. At the Committee session, as well as in the discussion that Mr. Minister had with DSS MPs, I said that it seems that it would be better to bring this law in peace and tension in the autumn, to make use of the possibility of mutual consultations and exchanges of views in the meantime, not to make the law quickly, on Saturday, July 18th, at plus 40 degrees. I don't see any reason to act like this. Mr. Minister just now seemed to me rightly to paraphrase him "that our education is somewhere in the back hole of the play". But, I'm sorry, she's just doing it for this kind of behavior. In other words, one extreme principled objection to the procedure for the adoption of this law of the DSS has been expressed through my dissuasion of opinion. Of course, we'll talk about the essentials later.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-18-0.u24431	Thank you, Mr. Shami. Mrs. Donka Banovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-18-0.u24432	President-in-Office, respected ministers, respected fellow Members of Parliament, on the Committee on European Integration, I have singled out my opinion and I want to take advantage of these five minutes that the Rules of Procedure gives me or foresees not to point out the content of certain proposed solutions – some solutions that are good and some solutions that the DSS think are bad we will also speak in the debate in principle – in these five minutes I want to point to another problem, technically, when this law is concerned. It is that he is full of long and vague sentences and attitudes. The harmonisation was necessary with many laws and strategies, which the minister had comprehensively spoken of, therefore, the new laws with which this bill was harmonised by the Law on Prohibiting Discrimination, the Bill on Gender Equality, was harmonised with the Constitution, the Law on Higher Education, the Proposal for a Law on the Prevention of Moming or Abuse at Work and other strategies. I understand that it was necessary to perform this kind of harmonisation, however, I do not understand that this alignment consists of you taking the finished sentences and the parts of the sentences and putting it all on each other. The result of these actions, that is, the copy-pass operation, that is, students and children know what we who use computers are, is simply sorting out individual elements. I say again, the result is very incomprehensible and vague attitudes and whole sentences. Any law that comes from the government as a proposal and any law that this assembly votes, whether it is good or bad, or that it has good or bad solutions, must be clear and accurate. I'll give you a few examples. It's in Article 1, this isn't about vagueness, it's about an unusual attitude. It says – the terms expressed in this law, in the grammatical male race, mean the natural male and female species of the person to which they refer. I think we had another law where there was this attitude. Please, does this mean that all the laws that apply today, even these laws that are on the agenda today of this extraordinary session, which do not contain such an attitude, do not apply to the natural male and female, or, in other words, should women in Serbia feel that these laws do not apply to them, since they are the names of the grammatical male? That's unusual. Then, for example, in Article 4, where education and education goals are listed, says point 15) – The objective of education and education is: development and respect for racial, national, cultural, language, religious, gender, gender and adult equality, tolerance, non-discrimination and respect for diversity. As the students and children would say, this point is crawling with pearls. Then you have a noun that doesn't exist in Serbian at all. The noun "non-discrimination" does not exist. This is an English translation. Of course, there's a directory where by adding a prefix "no," you get a noun of the opposite meaning. Let's say, work and hate. But there is no non-discrimination in Serbian. I will and beg the minister, I know, but, let's say, for the sake of education and the public, to explain to us all what respect for gender and gender equality means to us? How will schools make a difference when they read these goals? In Article 15, you have a point 2), where educational outcomes and standards are said to be among other things, and to learn to learn. So children, students, and adults learn to learn and use their minds. Is it possible that so far educational workers have taught children how to use someone else's mind or not to use it? Or, if, say, a teacher does not respect these general outcomes and standards, it will be because he teaches a child to use someone else's mind, not to use his mind. (President: Time. ) We have, among other things, submitted amendments to these points and I think there is room for at least these attitudes and points to be corrected.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-18-0.u24433	Who's answering from those who've singled out, please? Mrs. Radica Jocic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-18-0.u24434	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on the Committee on European Integration, I set out as a member in front of the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group on the proposal for a law on the basis of a system of education and education, because I wanted to highlight a few things. Which is to say, the first question of the law seems almost perfect, but if there is a situation in our schools to be applied to, it is only then that you can see how difficult it will be in its application, of course, if it is adopted in this form as proposed by the Government, because lately I have the impression that the representatives of the government have a role just to endure five hours of debate, no matter what is heard in the debate, that they then, as they show the will to consider amendments, until in the day to vote the ruling majority finishes the job, and that's that. Serbian citizens have received a new law. However, the bill on the basis of the education and education system is a very important law, under which the next generation will be educated, under which adult children in our schools will be created, and according to this law we should all have a special relationship. I am pleased that in the draft law special attention is paid to the fact that all students, 'without regard to their own material conditions, have access to the appropriate levels of education and institutions', although I think that, thanks to the general state of society, we are, thanks to the poor material condition of most of our families and generality, further away from all children having the same chances of schooling. Thanks to the network of secondary schools, in which there are a few directions to vocational schools and possibly high school, many of our children are forced to finish high schools for waiters, hairdressers, carpenters, because their father or mother do not work, so they have a hard time surviving in their own place, and travel to a larger city for schooling can only dream. It's good that the law has all the same chances, but the government has to do a lot more concrete things so that these odds can be realized in practice. In order to develop, provide and improve the quality of education and education, the bill provides for the establishment of a National Educational Council which has 44 members, the Council for Professional Education and Education of Adults with 21 members, then the Institute for the Promotion of Education and Education, and for the evaluation of quality education and education, which as organisational units will have centres, and so on and then expert commissions, etc. I think this is a bulky machine for doing the jobs they're prescribed, because I think the smaller bodies are more operational and efficient, and their work is also much less costing the state. This money can be much more useful to use, since the Ministry also has solid capacities. One of the reasons for the adoption of this law is the need to bring it into line with the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination. I think Articles 44, 45 and 46 still need to work, to further specify the phenomena that can be created in schools, although it is never possible to predict everything. I believe that the child or student, although he is, of course, we will all agree, the most important factor, in the past period has been too “allowed” and that teachers, that is, have been employed, so to speak, although it may have been a little harshly unprotected, and that is why in schools we have had the appearances of beaten teachers by students and so on. Now in the draft law, Article 111 refers to the protection of the rights of students, while such a member for teachers is not foreseen. I think that our situation in primary and secondary schools, before all these communication Gashi seminars and workshops, as far as disciplines are concerned, may have been better, although it was influenced by a lot of factors. Since the process cannot be put back, more attention should be paid to student responsibilities. Also, I think this law provides for funding per student, and not according to the department, as it has been so far, will cause a lot of trouble to small schools, but also some more things will be discussed by the SRS in the principle debate and in the debate in particular. We have prepared a number of amendments for both this and the draft law on textbooks and other teaching tools, and we will try to make both of these proposals more applicable in practice, because no matter how good the law is, if it does not live in practice, it needs to be changed again.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-18-0.u24435	Mr. Momir Markovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-18-0.u24436	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, if the Minister had proposed a law on the education and education system by which he was raised and educated, of course complemented by all scientific, technical and educational achievements during this very long period, I believe that the SRS would not have this many amendments and would not have any objection to this system of education or the law on the system of education, because this system of education and education gave the first foundation, one broad education, and on the other hand, tickled children's imagination and created preconditions for new knowledge and knowledge and developed interest for all other forms. He was a foundation for the adoption of all other forms of education, education and skills. After all, our gas-bitters who had been brought up by this system had recently mastered the most modern machines and met the norm, and the domestic workers who were in those factories had to attend courses, courses to move from one operation to another. Our workers were highly esteemed. Well, then experimentation started. Let me tell you, Mr. Minister, neither you nor those before you, nor those before them, are either first or original, because the first creator of the idea of destroying the educational system in Serbia, or in then-Yugoslavia, Stipe Shuvar, who invented that famous school of targeted education, where the shoemakers were trained to make the upper parts of the shoe, so if the martyr wanted to open the shop, he had to find the one who was trained to make the lower parts of the shoe and then open the store together. Then Gašo Knezevic came with his famous workshops – let's get rid of the shame, etc., not to remind you of everything that happened in his time of ministry. And it's too short a time to say a lot about this law and colleagues from the SRS will explain the amendments and criticise this law a lot of things, and I'm just going to mention two members of this law that are directly touching my eyes. This is a Article 82 relating to the final exam in primary education and education and to the 83rd general graduation. Do you think, Minister, that a child who graduates from an eight-year-old school will be able to pass that final exam, will the examination committee be able to determine exactly the degree and level of his education in those eight years? Is that kid gonna be under stress, under the porch, and he sure as hell will? Is that kid gonna be sick that day? Will three teachers or teachers sitting on that committee be able to assess what that child has learned in eight years? We believe that the evaluation of eight years of work is far more meaningful and far better shows what kind of student knowledge has acquired. The second remark refers to Article 83 and so on. prom. You're reintroducing your little prom, and she's been rejected for years, when you and I were in that elementary school, or in the final grade of elementary school, or in the first grade of high school. In 83, he introduces a general high school graduation and you say that general graduation can be passed, or a special law will regulate it, but general graduation can also be attended by other high school graduates. The SRS believes that none of these exams are necessary, because there are also four years, and teachers are professional, regardless of what is now being done against teachers by many, and even by students, in my time and in your time, ministers, the professor was an institution, but we leave it aside, it's another opportunity. We believe that this commission... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-18-0.u24437	Thank you. The word has Free Samardzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-18-0.u24438	Dear People's MPs, respected members of the presidency, Mr. Minister, today we have to deal with this very important law for our country, and we would have done it much better if that thing had been better prepared before. We have one proposal for a law that is very comprehensive, which establishes a large number of institutions, reorganised, which as a law has been exaggerated, and in this legal and technical sense is very lacking. I wouldn't talk about it right now, there'll be a time when we're talking about the law in principle and some of its solutions. Now all I'd like to say is why I've singled out my opinion, which is also the reason for my present performance. On the Committee on European Integration, I have singled out my opinion for the simple reason that this law, in its basic principles, values and objectives, represents a set of phrases, so to speak, which are all collected from some universal dictionary, I do not know from where concrete, but it is evident from some set of standards, principles, etc., which applies at all to all people in the world. no one's individual. That's what I could illustrate, so that my criticism wouldn't be abstract. So only if you look at Article 3 that talks about general principles and has about six points, so just look at one of those points, third point of Article 3, I'll read it to you to just listen to how it sounds and you'll see what I'm talking about. It is therefore that the education and education system must provide for all children, students and adults, so there are several of these groups of principles, among other things, pay attention, education and education in a democratically regulated and socially responsible institution in which openness, co-operation, tolerance, awareness of the cultural and civilizational connection in the world, commitment to basic moral values, values of justice, truth, solidarity, freedom, honesty and responsibility are being nurtured, and in which it is already forgotten that the institution is referred to as a relative noun, full respect for the rights of the child, students and adults. Look, as far as the phrase is concerned, about a dozen and that reminds me of another thing, this opening argument of yours. I've been measuring, four minutes, where you've told me what this law is harmonized with. You started with the Constitution, you ended with one of the strategies. It was about 25 units, counting both European standards and various strategies, opinions, laws that are tens of them etc. A man would get the impression that it's some really ideal society, a achieved utopia. Look at all the values we achieve by just one point of principle and how many standards of world, cosmic, Serbian, etc. We're synchronising. So when it comes to these principles, values and goals, there is everything and everything, but there is no Serbia and there is no tradition of this people. That's what I need to draw attention to. It is simply impossible for some thirty points of value, principles and goals to appear in one place in Serbian, but also in other languages in this context, the identity of peoples with multiculturalism and the identity of all peoples of the world, etc. It is simply amazing that the writers of this law did not pay attention to the fact that they are making a law for this country, for these people, for this people, regardless of what he lives in this regional, European and world context, these children will learn by this law and they will have to be educated, first of all, to live in this country and serve their institutions and their generations, and then others. It's an inadmissible thing and a thing that cannot be corrected at the level of this law. You cannot correct these three or four pages with amendments. The DSS tried that by manifesting a good will, but there's a concept of something missing. What's missing conceptually is what some heteronomic morality, a heteronomic idea of life inspires writers of this law. So, not what comes from the place, time and space we live in, but from some abstract place, time and space where we actually only virtually live. Therefore (President: Will you bring the end? ..... I'm done. I just wanted to draw attention in principle, and there's going to be an opportunity to talk more.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-18-0.u24439	Thank you. It will now be said to the president, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, from the smallest to the greatest. The word is Mr. Nikola Krpić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-18-0.u24440	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, the Honorable Presidency, the Honorable President, Prof. Dr. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, Mr. Obradovic, MPs will vote for these two laws in the day of voting. Why? Because after a long period of time, we have really two good laws on education, education and textbooks. We will vote because, Mr. Minister, you showed good will, you and your colleagues, and all the MPs in this assembly, which would say, with your associates, you came to us before today's debate, and in meetings with each member of the group, you explained the essence of the legal provisions. PUPS MPs do not and will not teach amendments to the bill to fix them, because both you and your associates have given reasons to all dilemmas. Mr. Minister, because of the citizens of Serbia, but also because of our membership, we were interested, as you know, in the fates of rural schools and students in them, in textbooks and dictionaries of national minorities in the languages of these minorities, in the architectural obstacles of many schools and the normal arrival of disabled students in those schools, for staff in schools, where most of the students of the Roma population and other populations of national minorities, as well as for many other issues. 'I assure you, Mr. Minister, once again, that the final proposals of both laws are good and that MPs will vote for them in voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-18-0.u24441	Mr. Balint Pastor has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-18-0.u24442	Madam President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, both the laws, and the law on the foundations of the education and education system, as well as the law, that is, the draft law on textbooks, are modern laws, laws that will contribute to democratisation and decentralisation in education. Of course, the quality of education, first of all, or primarily does not depend on the law that regulates the field of education or education, but if you do not have modern frameworks, the frameworks that contribute to the democratisation of the whole process and the topics of education, then we will find it difficult to have quality education. The Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System provides an opportunity to address some specific education needs. For example, there is a member in the draft law on the basis of a system of education and education that says primary and secondary schools implement a school programme, and can also implement an individual educational plan, which is certainly a positive solution. It is also very important that for the first time this law, frame or roof, introduces the possibility of adult education. We are very pleased that Mr. Minister said that the plan of the ministry is to adopt a bill on adult education by the end of the year. It is a segment of education that has been completely neglected in previous years, and there is no modern education system in one society, in one country without regulating adult education issues. In the previous months and years in Vojvodina, I attended various scientific meetings where the need to regulate problems or issues of adult education was discussed. It was primarily about some seminars organised by associations of citizens and associations, referring to models that exist in the surrounding countries, particularly in Hungary or Croatia, said that the issue should be regulated as soon as possible in Serbia. When we talk about the positive sides of the Bill on the Foundations of the Education and Education System, we should certainly list several positive solutions from the field of education in the languages of members of national minorities. There are many new positive solutions in this area. I would like to quote these proposed solutions so that citizens, members of national minorities, may know that these solutions will be adopted together with the law, framework or roof, on education, I hope, by the end of July. For example, in units of local self-government or local self-government in which the language and letter of the national minority is in official use, i.e. in which educational-examination work is carried out in the language and letter of the national minority, an act on the network of pre-school institutions and primary schools shall be adopted with the opinion of the National Council of the National Minority. It is a new solution that has never existed in our regulation before. The second positive solution refers to the Institute of the Parents' Council. The bill says that parents' advice will be proportionately represented by members of national minorities and this is an absolutely positive proposed solution. Furthermore, when it comes to the adoption of the programme, to quote again from the draft law, the basic and secondary education and education programme, when it comes to education in the language of the national minority and the language of the national minority with the elements of national culture, this programme is adopted on a proposal from the National Council of the National Minority and the Opinion of the National Education Council. The programme is brought by a minister, but on a proposal from the National Minority Council. When we talk about enrollment, we should again point out a positive solution that says that if there is no possibility of an examination of a child in the mother tongue, the school employs an interpreter on a proposal from the National Council of a certain national minority. Furthermore, when we talk about teachers and teachers, then there is one solution that should stand in the way of a negative phenomenon which, unfortunately, exists years ago in Serbia when it comes to education in the languages of national minorities, which is that certain subjects in classes where teaching is performed in the language of national minorities are taught by teachers who do not know the language of the national minority. Students are forced to learn certain subjects not in their native language, regardless of being enrolled in a class in which each subject should be studied in the language of the national minority. We are now not talking about the subject of Serbian language and literature, which is normally studied in Serbian, and the subject is mandatory in all schools. I'm talking about examples that are, unfortunately, very numerous, when students who attend classes, for example. in Hungarian, learn geography, or physics or mathematics in Serbian. This negative phenomenon, a discriminatory phenomenon, will stand in the way of a proposed solution that speaks of reception conditions in a working relationship. This solution provides for three sort of sub-options. One refers to educational and educational work, when it is achieved in the language of the national minority and then, apart from the general conditions, a person who wants to be employed as a teacher or professor must also have proof of the language in which educational-experienced work is achieved. It's been gone so far, and that's why there's been these negative phenomena. As second, some kind of sub-option of this is with the educator. In the bill of law, we have a solution that says that a teacher’s job can be done by a person who has acquired a proper education in the language in which the work is done or has passed a language exam with a methodical. The next version of this is the work of a teacher and an expert associate at a school where educational and probationary work is achieved in the language of a national minority, except for a Roma language, and it is said in the law that this work can be done by a person who has acquired a secondary, higher or higher education in the language of a national minority or has passed a language exam. These proposed solutions are perfect and nothing can be added there. When we talk about the positive side of the bill on the basis of the education and education system, I would also like to emphasise the principle of decentralisation. This proposed law provides for the competencies of the AP Vojvodina and certain responsibilities of the Vojvodina Pedagogical Institute to carry out certain entrusted tasks in relation to education in the languages of national minorities. However, the bill, unfortunately, has some shortcomings. I won't tell any newspaper to the Minister that we've submitted the amendments. This is not a newspaper because we have discussed these amendments with Mr. Minister and his associates, and I hope that these amendments will be adopted because we have directed them to the Ministry in the form that this was proposed by the Ministry so that they could be accepted, on the one hand, and on the other hand, it would be good for these amendments to be adopted because they supplement this law and improve this bill in relation to some of the solutions relating to education in the languages of national minorities. In the light of the bill's proposal, it states that this law is passed because of the obligation to comply with certain provisions of the laws applicable, the colleague has already said, there are a number of laws, and among these laws we have a bill on national councils of the national minorities, a bill that will be adopted as well as this law in July, since the draft law is on the agenda of this extraordinary session. It would not be good if there was a conflict or conflict between this framework law and the law on national councils of national minorities. I've just listed which are positive sides, but there are several shortcomings, and we've been aiming at correcting some of these mistakes to our amendments. If this law were to be in conflict with the law on national councils, then it would be difficult to implement what is imagined in both the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights, when we talk about some specific problems of education in the languages of national minorities. Speaking of defects, I'd like to say a few sentences about the National Educational Council. This advice will have, as it is now, 42 members. He has the opinion of experts in the field of education that it is insufficient for the sphere of education in the languages of national minorities to cover one person. I would not like to make any demagogue arguments and say that, according to the last 2002 census, about 30% of citizens have declared themselves a member of a national minority, and according to this proposal, only 2.38% of the members of the National Educational Council will be from the ranks of national minorities. We don't see it that way, and that's why we didn't propose an amendment to this solution. We still feel it is not good that only one person covers the whole area of education issues in the languages of national minorities, because you simply cannot put education in the same basket in Hungarian, in Roma language, for example, or in Croatian, in Slovak, in Romanian, etc. That's why we don't think this is the best solution. That's what I had to say, but we haven't submitted the amendment to this, because we think there's a chance that people who are really going to be professional can get into this National Educational Council. We hope that, in addition to the members proposed by the national councils of national minorities, other authorised proposings will propose experts who know the problem of education in the languages of national minorities. Now I'd like to move on to the proposal for a textbook law. This law is also modern and certainly commendable. We haven't found any shortcomings here, so we haven't submitted any amendments. When it comes to education in the languages of national minorities, it is certainly good to provide here for responsibilities for national councils of national minorities. An application for the approval of textbook manuscripts can be rejected, for example, if there is a reasoned negative expert assessment of the quality of the manuscript of the national minority council and that is certainly good, and in the approval of foreign textbooks, the national council of national minorities will also receive jurisdiction by law. The people of the Ministry know of course that we have had this practice five years ago, using textbooks from the home states of national minorities, but we view it as an exception. We do not prefer the import of textbooks and we believe that our experts should write textbooks, but above all in high schools there are situations where it is not possible to write a textbook here because of a small number or a small circulation in which certain textbooks should be printed. For this possibility, it is good to foresee the possibility of importing textbooks and it is good that the national council of national minorities will have that competence. Speaking of this topic and the Ministry remembered this low circulation problem, because we have very low-level textbooks. There are just examples of textbooks in the languages of national minorities. I'd like so much to talk about these bill proposals. Now I would take advantage of the possibility that Mr. Minister is here to point out a few of the problems that exist in practice in education. These problems do not exist of course since he is a minister, but these problems exist years ago and we hope that now a solution will be found for these problems to be resolved and solved. First of all, it's a school management problem. We simply do not understand the criteria for these school administrations. For example, it is possible that Subotica, the fifth-largest city in Serbia, does not have her school administration. It's, in our opinion, inexplicable and I'm really interested in how the minister can explain that, say, Sombor has a school board, and Subotica as the fifth city in the country doesn't have that school administration. Of course, we should also consider the fact that you have Serbian-language education in Subotic, Hungarian, Croatian, Roma, so there should certainly be a school administration based in Subotica. Another problem is the unresolved question of the teachers in question. This problem can be solved by the law on higher education. I would like to point out this problem and draw the attention of the minister – that it would be good if the law was passed that problem, because this could solve the problem in those environments where there are not enough teachers and it would be good to allow students to become teachers from two courses. The next problem, as it is the law on dormitories, i.e. student and student standards, is the unresolved issue of funding those student homes whose founder is not a state. Here we have dormitories, for example in Subotica, in Novi Sad, in Zrenjanin, whose founders are some traditional church or some foundation, and are very important, and the state doesn't treat them at all. It's just that it has to be considered. In the previous assembly session, when Mr. Minister was an MP, we submitted an amendment to the draft budget law and we predicted a small sum, just to point out the problem. The amendment was rejected because the issue was not systemically resolved, so it should be included in the draft law on student and student standards. Finally, one question is for Mr. Obradovic. We don't understand why local self-government, municipalities, are not the founders of primary schools. On the territory of the AP Vojvodina, Vojvodina is the founder of secondary schools, and under the Law on Local Self-Government of Local Self-Government should be the founders of primary schools, and that is not the case. I wanted to point out these problems, and I hope to get an answer from Mr. Minister to these questions, and I hope that our amendments will be adopted to make the law as good as possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-18-0.u24443	Thank you. He has Mrs. Zlata Đeric's word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-18-0.u24444	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, the Honorable President, the Honorable Mr. Minister and the Honorable Teachers and Professors, in the first order, who today are following the principle debate on the adoption of these laws, and I know that the Educational Public is genuinely interested in the adoption of these laws. Of course, it is very important that these laws are finally in front of the public of Serbia, found before adoption, and I hope, in advance of the ministry's goodwill, to correct the amendments we have submitted. What's a little distracting me about the presentation of these laws is when these laws or the law on the foundations of the education and education system are spoken of as roof law, and it's become a common attribute to the law at all. This is not a roof law – this is a fundamental law, such as the enlightenment of every society, so it should be treated accordingly. If we treat education and laws dealing with education as the basis for all other good buildings in this society, we will also build a good society. I hope and believe deep down that the aim of this law is not only to solve the issue of education, but to the welfare of our children, and thus to the whole society. I must thank Mr. Minister for showing great understanding and co-operation with all the parliamentary groups, which we in New Serbia have seen as his good intentions. We have submitted a significant number of extremely high-quality amendments, and its indications that they could be adopted encourage us that this ministry really wants to solve some key issues and key education problems. Of course, they won't be able to solve them all, and we will also talk about the benefits of this law and about those sides that we think are missing, and I hope that soon we will have some changes and additions, if the minister considers it necessary to supplement certain things in the work, implementation and implementation of this law. What I must say to Mr. Minister, which is that I expect at all times in the government to represent all the interests of education, all of her honor and dignity that she deserves in this people and that through her tradition, firmly, and the only one, perhaps in all difficult times, defends. First of all, Mr. Minister, you must know that you represent the most powerful ministry. Some other parties didn't recognize it, and I'm glad, otherwise they'd take it away from you, expecting to infiltrate some tycoons and everything else. The most powerful ministry currently defending the direct or indirect interests of at least three million citizens, and the military, and the police and everyone else are some upgrades, some other interests, but the foundation of this society and our future lies in this ministry. In addition, this ministry treats the most expensive goods, education, the most competitive, most wanted goods in the whole world the most recognized. It is never seen at first sight in this form, but it turns out that it is the most significant, powerful and expensive. I expect you to protect her as such and protect her, and that will really protect your education to the end. I say that with full credibility because I come from the city of Sombora, which has the oldest teaching school in this part of Europe, with the most famous tradition and most famous names. One of the elementary schools in my town gave only seven academics to Serbia. Therefore, I really believe that I am invited to say this to the public of Serbia. So, to go back to the first law on the foundations of the education and education system and before I look back at its good side, I have to quote the unsurpassed educator Makarenko, the one whom world pedagogy recognises as the perfect authority, the one who established in the pedagoggy of the positive example model, the model of trust, and who at the most difficult moments in Russia from an army of abandoned children, unrepresented children, managed to make a person. Unfortunately for the world's pedagoggy, the world's pedagogical practice, disappeared in Stalin's cleanup before the Second World War itself, but that's another story and another sadness. This is what Macarenko says: "Our children are our joy, proper education is a happy age, bad education is an accident, our sorrow, our shame and guilt before ourselves, in front of the whole society." The education, I say, has preserved its dignity, dignity and safeguarded all national and national interests, very often misunderstood by its authorities, very often neglected by its authorities. I have to go back to some of the bright examples, the kind of singing, which even the hardest times they had to say, the professor isn't just a diary teacher. Since you and Mr. Secretary and I are excavators, we understand absolutely what I'm talking about. I'm going to commend article 109 of this law. It's a member we've cried out for several years in our education, a member who's finally returning to the average in primary school for a rule grade. Those who removed that grade from the average have done inexplicable damage in society. Analyzing several times over the year our work, direct work in the department, we've always come up with these devastating results and we've always called for that grade to return to the average. She has a few more dimensions. One of the consequences is certainly this violence we've been facing for several years. What we disagreed on, you admitted yourself at the Ministry to having a dilemma, which is the age in which that grade should be returned. We've proposed an amendment to it since the fifth grade, and you asked the law to be of the seventh grade, so I'll tell you it's too late. The teachers who call me these days even suggest that maybe they should have since second grade primary school. I hope you will still adopt this amendment, with which even a UNICEF representative agreed. So, professionally, it has been scientifically proven that this assessment has an exceptional effect, an extremely stimulating effect on children and on their education and that it was moved at the time when the family showed certain problems, and when those families who had some problems in their personal relationship with their greatest and most responsible task, raising their own children, wanted that responsibility to pass on to others. So the government rating returns to average. And indeed, it's the first aid when there's a lot of things that don't work around a child, and it's crying out with a riot, and it's a disorder to show him attention and love, and it's the most painless way to solve a lot of problems at the beginning. I am responsibly telling you, out of practice, that since we moved that grade out of the average, and that some other measures have been put in place at school that we were able to preserve, first of all, the authority of society, and the authority of education, and the school, and the authority of the family, because sometimes at school we were the most important defender of that authority, increased the number of juvenile delinquency, and we who, unfortunately, co-operated with the police institution, forced the need or, if necessary, the law, we know that. So that's what's in this law extremely well. There are a few more really nice steps in favour of education, and it shows that this ministry has taken care of some of the interests of children. I will also talk about those you did not pay attention to in this law, but I hope that in the name of Serbia's improvement again, you will find understanding and find a way to resolve it. First of all, this law did not find a way to address, deal with and direct more energy and resources and legal regulations to especially talented children. It's positive that some marginalized children, problems that have arisen in society, have somehow been taken care of by an inclusion. I welcome that. That's the good side of this law. Children with special needs should be given equal education, made visible. But why, for a long time now, my children who are supposed to be the engine of this society, to bear the greatest burden of the future and who will be able to bear it, because they have shown to their natural predisposition that they can, why we do not stimulate their own and personal interest so that they can be the engine of society. It's pure physics, to joke, but it's on your straight path and a weak engine can pull, but when you're stuck in the mud, you have to call a tractor, a stronger machine to pull you out. They're that machine. They should be given a great advantage over everything. It should be stimulated, financially and in all other ways, especially talented children, especially children who show particular interest in some areas, to stimulate student competitions that we have been facing for years, which is where the first selection of such children is being held. Therefore, student competitions should be financed in particular, especially those prizes. Dasse is not held every year, and it is increasingly more and more stressed, as a cult and as a burden to school, organizer, teacher who must do so and parents who often cannot even solve the issue of child transportation to a place where a republican or some county competition is held. That certificate that's very important, which, you know, is educational, and the other is extremely useful to society, we didn't get in this law. We have also submitted some amendments, and I expect the minister to recognize it. Especially talented children must finally not only care about their families, because for several years we have been looking at the scene is a national strategy to fight drug abuse, a national strategy to fight all the monsters that are happening to us, and no national strategies for talented students, for talented children, for genius children. That's what this law and this ministry should offer us. I really expect that this will soon have to be a priority or a special law or some sublegal act that will favour them once too, not to watch in the papers how there's a kid who won all the world's prizes can't have some minimum funds coming true and then different ministries are being transferred, who's actually in charge of it? Turns out no one is in charge of the best. We only have the authorities for those who cause problems, we waste time, money and resources on them. This is what we expect this ministry to be soon and clearly defined, to include a legal solution to society's relationship and to oblige society that those who are in their nature were fortunate to be endowed with particular abilities, to be respected by society, to be expected by society to be the momentum of some future Serbia. What this ministry needs to deal with and to deal with in particular, I didn't think I was talking about it in the textbook law, but I'm telling you right under this law, it's a problem that the practice in schools of happiness goes on for many years, and every year we deny how we're going to find a way to get rid of it. No one even mentioned it. There's no sign of that. That's the problem with the physical burden of students. Eighty percent of children in lower classes in systematic examinations are found to blame their spine, due to heavy bags, due to excessive demands. I respect everything, both licenses and other publishers, and textbook kits, and powers and penalties, all that's fine, but someone has to sit down and say – a child of 25 to 30 pounds of body weight can't carry a daily weight of eight kilograms on his spine because we make future disabled people. If parents didn’t do something on their own and don’t take something out on their own every day, if the teacher somehow didn’t correct it, the burden would sometimes be far greater. On this system solution, believe me, with the Ministry of Health, I expect someone to come forward, because a lot of finding it, we all notice it, we know that it is a problem, kids are getting weaker and weaker, they're getting more and more on the computer, parents often leave them to keep their computer while they're gone. Kids lose their eyesight and blame their spine, two serious problems. I don't want to talk about flat feet. We have health problems that we need to address through a systemic approach to the education and education of our children. Mr. Minister, there's a lot we can talk about. Testified by your good intentions that you want through this law to solve a lot of things essentially, pay attention to just some of these things that we've turned your attention to being resolved, because I personally don't expect this government to be either national or socially responsible. I expect it to be responsible, and it is expected for the citizens of Serbia, to be responsible for the tasks she has taken and to be responsible for the same attributes and responsible for something he has not done, and he has taken responsibility to do so. Now I just have to go back to the presentation of the MP who spoke before me, Mr Balint Pastor. I see he's not in the O.R. He talked about national minorities and their needs and everything that was regulated in the National Minorities Act, I welcome, but I must say - I've been working at school almost as many years as his life span, in a school that is bilingual, Serbian-Hungarian. I have a department in Serbian and Hungarian. I don't recognize the problems he's talking about, they don't recognize my colleagues. The items are professionally represented. You already have it governed by the law that you can't apply to teach physics, or chemistry, or geography in the Hungarian language department if you don't know that language. By the nature of things, you're probably also a member of that national minority. This has never been disputed so far, so it's not good, it's not positive that the problem is singled out, it's not even well-intentioned, because the problem has indeed been very positive and well-intentioned so far. I'm saying that with the authority of someone who's been working at a school like that for 25 years. I don't like it, since I meet with my colleagues and kids from both nationalities every day, we've had and remains this wonderful collaboration. Our teacher's evening always had an understanding and style. Our children have always been beautiful friends. I don't like anyone trying to remind them now that even a snowball can have a national basis. Continue this trend to resolve national interests, the interests of national minorities, Mr. Minister. Keep above all a good national tradition of Serbian education and education. Don't let it collapse, like there have been attempts at some reforms to collapse. We had one of the best education and education systems in the world, we were recognized and known for it. We didn't happen to have experts everywhere in the world leaving significant names and significant clues. I ask that it be truly respected. I commend all your positive examples, I commend all the positive solutions, and I hope that you will at least discuss what I said and soon find a way to solve it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-18-0.u24445	Mr. Balint Pastor, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-18-0.u24446	Madam President, dear colleague Đeric, our rooms are on the same floor, so we're neighbors there, so I had to run down to be able to replicate, I just have to. I have to replicate because my exposure is never malicious. On the other hand, yesterday I said when we discussed the Criminal Code – we never increase problems and never talk about any imaginary problems. When you hear from us that we're talking about a problem, you can be sure that's the case. On the other hand, I'm glad that those problems I was talking about aren't in the school where you teach, but believe that problem exists in some other schools. I commended this bill because it provides for one possibility that will answer those problems that exist in society on the ground. In addition, if the problem did not exist, the ministry would not feel that there is a need to regulate it in this way. You're right, in the contest is listed very often that you can't teach a particular subject a person who doesn't know the language. But what if that contest is called in a way that no one can answer those who know the language? So what happens when this contest is called in a way that no one can apply to this competition to meet all the conditions that need to be met? So I don't know why you used five minutes of your exposure to talk about something I was saying. It's not clear to me at all why you're saying that I'm increasing some problems, that I'm deliberately talking about some questions, when it's just not like that, and you know very well that's not the case. And to underline once again, if the Ministry didn't think that this problem existed, a solution to this, in your opinion, non-existent problem, would not have been foreseen by the bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-18-0.u24447	Mrs. Djeric, if there were no dialogue, you wouldn't be offended, and I think you've made yourself clear. If you feel offended, I'll give you my word, but I haven't found that there are any elements to it. What do you say? All right, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-18-0.u24448	I can say that I'm misread, if you don't want some other expression, although I really don't feel offended, and we might be able to do something about it. I don't think that a young colleague wanted to insult me, I think he wanted to do something of his own in a way to express some political attitudes and send a political message to his constituents. I don't slow it down, and I won't get much of a handle on it. First of all, I addressed the educational public of Serbia, and I have great responsibility and great responsibility to them. I have an obligation and responsibility to my city that has a long tradition of living with Hungarians, Croats and others, we have several schools. I'm lucky to be working for a quarter of a century in one such school, and of course I'm very proud and very happy that at my school there's not much to meet, so to speak, these allegations Mr. Balint said. I just have one thing to tell you, and there you have to either support it or you can feel misunderstood, never competitions in education get dissipated so they can't meet the conditions. Every school director's goal is to fill that job as soon as possible, because he needs his school to work. No matter what environment it is, it is never done in education with that goal. If it's working, then it's the subject of another ministry, not this ministry, and that's what needs to be looked back at. I wouldn't want to talk about these negative examples that appear in some environments, who initiates them, and why. I would not like this law and this exposure to anything to be violated, because this law has made many positive decisions, including on national minorities, and this has always been well resolved and has always been taken into account in Serbia in particular and responsibly. Serbia has a tradition of this and I am grateful to it and I am proud of our multiculturalism, our multiethnicity and our multi-comfessionality, which I spoke of the other day and I will always talk about. I don't mean to be rude, but I only have to say one aphorism, if it pleases the chairman, who was recently referred to by a gentleman. "The minorities in Serbia are second-class citizens, only Serbs are behind them. 'So much for those relationships. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-18-0.u24449	Mr. Žarko Korać has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-18-0.u24450	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the People, it is true that perhaps the educational public is following closely the fate of this law and possibly the debate. But it is also true that there is almost no interest in this law in our society. As an indicator of this, I looked at the media this morning and absolutely no one is alive talking about the law that should be, and I agree in that part with my colleague Đeric, one of the fundamental ones, means basic laws in one country. This is the law, I will say something about both, which regulates the basics of education and education systems, and education and education systems directly determine the future of a country. I said something about the general atmosphere, and I would say something more and my serious criticism is to the government in general and the responsible officials of this country who never talk about the education system. I've thought about it for a long time, whether the answer is that there are too many economists in the government. Far from the fact that the economy is irrelevant, they do not have any particular personal interest in the education system, but they never speak of it, and we do not, for example, have a prime minister who will act as prime minister of England, who is otherwise not our role model politically in any way, Margaret Thatcher, more than 20 years ago. She pawned a personal authority to get a basic IT education in England to learn computer work. It's her personal authority, she's behind it. She said it was her primary goal. She did it. In England today, information education is exactly the same as any other education, even its predecessors, which is acquired in primary school. We don't have people who, in a hard, clear way, set one goal in education. These two laws that we have before us are very important, given that they come from it, and they themselves, I must say, in one correct explanation, the need to pass these laws is two devastating facts. I have to mention them here, although Mr Obradovic listed them as the last one we had in 2002, the results are as follows: about 44% of Serbian citizens over 15 years of age or have no primary education or incomplete primary education. It's a devastating fact. It's a terrible fact. Secondly, if we look at the structure of those people who do not have basic education, then it is also stated correctly in the explanation, if we look at the Roma population, that almost half of Roma children do not enter basic education at all, and of those who enroll, over 70% do not finish full primary school, which is one of the most drastic forms of discrimination in this society. I'm just asking you, a person who doesn't even have a primary education, what chance does he have to get a job and, by the way, when he starts working, what kind of job can he do? These are devastating data that requires full attention and our society can be fooled to the will of one day when we enter Europe. With what quantity of knowledge do we enter these European integrations? I'd add what's listed here based on the letter of research, it can be said that these tests aren't adjusted, I'd be a little more skeptical of that attitude if they weren't adapted to our education system, we're getting bad results, our children, the minister came in desperate for the idea to prepare the children for the Pisa test. That's not a good solution. He tried to do something about it. What's for sure is that the letter tests show that our children can't apply their knowledge in new situations. And the knowledge they have is quite static and conservative and, in a sense, formalized, is not applicable to new situations. As someone who works, unfortunately, a little longer than counterpart Djeric in education, for more than 30 years, I can say that the situation is not quite black or that there are segments of education that are good in this country, but what is missing is social concern, social interest. When I look at these two laws, I will now say more about this fundamental and basic law on the basic system of education and education. It defines in a very modern way all the goals of the process and all the general principles. I wish it were more stylishly even, if there wasn't any of those globular sentences. Apparently, the National Educational Council and various groups worked. It's clear to me that this came as a result of the work of more educated people. But I'm just going to give you an example of what's modern in this bill. You have it in Article 3, but you also have it in Article 6 of the Law. I'm going to read very carefully because I've been dealing with this problem to some extent as a psychologist. ''A person with developmental and disability disorders shall have the right to education and education which respects their educational and educational needs in the regular education and education system, in a regular system with individual, or group additional support or in a special preschool group or school, in accordance with this and a special law. 'And by the way, this is also about people who are extremely talented. Maybe it was supposed to be separated here, but it's definitely here and it's talking about them. I don't know if you know what kind of commitment this country has to make. I'll just say for the institution where I work, the Faculty of Philosophy got the ramp by having the parents of a boy, a student, do it himself, and then, fortunately, he made a ramp. I guarantee that more than half of Belgrade University's college has no ramp for people with disabilities. I'm telling you that the largest number of elevators in Serbia, 99% of them are not perforated on those buttons for the blind. A blind person can't get in the elevator alone, because he doesn't know which button to push. That's inadmissible. There is a commitment to people with disabilities, as usual, in the world and in Europe today, about 10% of the population are persons with some form of disability. So there are about 800,000 people in this country who have some form of disability. This is a huge commitment. I fully support this. But now there's something to follow. Not to mention slightly retarded people, mentally disabled people, who you don't see because parents are ashamed to show them. Our society is not kind to them, and some of those children could go with other children to class, so that if they had extra classes, that these kids who aren't disabled or slightly retarded get used to being their fellow citizens, boys and girls the same as they are. Our society here takes on one great obligation, but from that obligation, Mr. Minister, respected colleagues from the Ministry and those who have passed this law, there will be nothing unless the government understands what obligation it has made by passing this law and our society as a whole. Not this government, but all the next governments. As far as the textbook law is concerned, it simply determines the current situation in 1993. The school of publishing textbooks had a monopoly. Meanwhile, many private publishers have appeared, and this law is finally introducing order into the area. There was something controversial about the deadline to submit the textbooks. A number of publishers requested that the licensing of institutions be lifted. Personally, I think there is a need to license institutions, since still publishing textbooks isn't exactly a regular job, it's not the same, I apologize for it, like publishing love novels or something like that, but it's a slightly greater social responsibility for those who publish textbooks. For those other publishers, it's a matter of markets, whether someone buys or doesn't. So, as far as this law is concerned, he's only sanctioning the existing situation in some way and it's good that it's done. What is missing and what is going to be done, as we are informed, is a sublegal act that needs to determine the quality of the textbook and that is the central question. I agree with what is said here that it is an extremely important law, although it is relatively short and looks technical law, it is extremely important. What I would like to say for the end, and I think that over 120,000 educational workers in Serbia are deeply aware of that, in our country, we do not have one objective of social education as a priority. You know, they're successful countries that have invested in education. Should I quote countries in Asia that were third-rate economic forces until they invested in a system like Taiwan, like Korea? Well, everything rests on education. People are equal, there's no difference in intelligence, there's no difference in the ability of people on the globe, they're different to each other, within one society they're all equally capable of on average, but the education system makes one more capable than the other and that's what our society lacks. Just one more remark. When it came to goals, something was left out here, that's what I said when I spoke to the Ministry's representatives, but I still miss it, I think there's a consciously skipped formulation of the secularity of the education system. I know it's a constitutional provision, but it still seems to me that lately in our country it's started to interfere secularly and religiously. The constitution clearly defines it. Please, I'm not saying what I'm thinking here. I'm taking it out of the Constitution. The system of education in the secular state is secular. It doesn't mean that there shouldn't or can't be another, of course there should be, but it should have been made clear, however, that this system base refers to a secular system of education, because we have breakthroughs and desires, we've heard a little here today, that religious teaching also belongs to this system. It is regulated differently and I suppose by the Law on Religious Communities, where the state also in a certain way, with full freedom, also by the Constitution guaranteed, gives those rights. We have one tendency to make one mix of secular and religious and then the religious institutions in the secular system appear as privileged. They have every right and no obligation, the obligation to choose professors, as knowledge is acquired, until at this time for religious teaching, as far as I know, we do not have proper supervision in Serbia, because there were some courses, because there was no Ministry of Education prepared to introduce religious teaching. Once again, this law is properly done. I have various technical objections. Our parliamentary group has given a series of amendments and we will see which of these amendments will be accepted. There will also be other representatives of our parliamentary group in the debate, but for me it is a key question – does our authority really want to put education in a different place than it is now? I'm really tired of talking about European integration, and nobody's interested in the education system at the same time. Well, as we have introduced Bologna in order for our experts to be highly educated, our university-educated experts to be equal in education with those in Europe, and this system must adapt us against discrimination, for general human values, but also for the quality of education and resources invested, and organization. It's something that needs to be a priority of the state.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-18-0.u24451	National MP Miletic Mihajlovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-18-0.u24452	President-in-Office, working presidency, Mr. Minister, co-workers from the Ministry of Education, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SPS-JS Group, it is my pleasure to present today the views of our parliamentary group on the proposed laws. We are also pleased that the debate is going in one good direction and one good intention and that, at least so far, we have been relieved of what may be a dry policy or party membership and that there are well-intentioned objections, as well as commendation for the proposed laws and by the opposition. Of course, in the proposed laws, in some provisions, we may have idealized goals to pursue, but it's just not wrong. It should always be done, and these goals and ideals should be pursued, and we will succeed if we get close to them at least. Certainly what can be complemented and corrected, we will do so at this session when the amendments come into order, and there is room for the minister and his expert team to accept it, or the government to accept it if there are such reasons, and perhaps in some things there are. The key reasons for the adoption of the law were the words about it, but certainly the time in which we live has made us have some new circumstances from both legal and other points of view, and it was certainly necessary to bring this into line with the highest legal framework of the Constitution, and the strategies mentioned here also exist to give a certain direction to what will be legitimate, or the rights of regulation in certain areas, and to come up with new solutions that meet the modern moment and social needs of today and what follows tomorrow. Of course, these laws, first of all, the law on the foundations of the education and education system, which we consider a fundamental law, the basic law, is very important and it is, according to its structure and issues that treat very complex, complex, but seems to give good assumptions about the adoption of other laws, special laws in the field of education. This proposed law is certainly according to what is modern and follows the modern moment, and it was necessary to amend a series of provisions of the same law, which was passed in 2003, which was partially amended and amended in 2004 and 2005, and because of the abundance of changes and additions, it certainly deserved to be treated today as a bill rather than amendments and additions. This speaks of both the ministry and the government taking seriously the issue of education in this country and the intention to regulate all these issues as best as possible, in co-operation with parliament. I have mentioned many strategies that have caused the new law to be passed, and of course there are strategies that are also directly related to what we are talking about today or in some indirect relationship, but not to mention them, it is important that the motionary takes this into account. In addition to legal and strategic reasons for the adoption of these laws, there are other empirical indicators which are reflected in what is an analysis of the principles in this area and what have been the results in this regard in terms of satisfaction and achievement so far. It's about the comprehensiveness of education, it's about justice, efficiency, it's about quality. The current Bill of Law, in particular the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System, I am seriously dealing with these issues and is seriously responding to all the circumstances that time has brought. When it comes to student achievements, for example, through comparative international research, we have shown that we have lower achievements in our country compared to children from other countries, above all from Europe. I would agree with the previous speaker that there is nothing we can put ourselves into less intelligent people, of course, for children. It is certainly about making one environment, making one such environment, one such system in education that will give assumptions for expressing full capacity, what are both natural talent and what are the possibilities of every average student in this country. It certainly concerns the fact that in Serbia today we have a low educational level and that is the problem we must face both the position of government and all other positions in this society. It is almost unacceptable and I think that the alarm lamp should be activated and we are seriously going to address this issue, because 22% of the population aged 15 years who have not finished primary school is unacceptable today for any country that is in Europe, especially for a country that is seeking to join the EU countries. This low educational level is in direct proportion to what productivity is today, and this is what we are talking about today and we have problems with it. The higher level of education certainly makes assumptions for higher productivity. Next, we have that our education system has not been sufficiently consistent with the needs of the economy so far and has not responded to what their demands and needs are. This issue is now covered by this law, first of all by another advice, which is the advice for professional education and adult education. We've got two things here. First of all, professional education and second question – adult education that is abandoned in our country, which is very important and necessary, and from the aspect of productivity, and from the aspect of all that can be the overall progress of our society. When it comes to what is justice, it is certainly within this framework that every child today in Serbia must have the same chance and assumptions for the completion of primary and secondary school, with the fact that it is a free education at both levels and even for extraordinary students who meet certain criteria regarding age. Of course, when we talk about these benefits, it should also be noted that the Ministry has endured and finally realized what was the idea and the idea of free textbooks for champions and it will live now since the beginning of this school year. Or to introduce the Internet into all primary and secondary schools, of course for free, in collaboration with public enterprises and other entities in this country who understand the importance of all this. One of the benefits of this law and it is certainly commendable, as we heard in discussions and other parliamentary groups, regardless of whether they belong to the ruling coalition or to the opposition, is to prevent discrimination. This is a very important issue that will give neither the possibility to favour certain groups of children, nor any negative discrimination in the other direction, to marginalise or neglect children in an educational-experienced process, because it is unacceptable and people's language would be said to be one of the greatest sins to do so. On the other hand, when we talk about discrimination, and in this regard it is a matter of inclusion, involving those children who are socially marginalized or disabled, or in any way prevented from going through the process of education and education with the same step. This law makes it an attempt to put them in line for those kids who don't have a problem with it. It is significant to point out that there is no categorization when it comes to this and that we do not have one hard approach in terms of categorizing and determining children – who is for special school, who is not. Simply, life and the situation will show, in collaboration with parents and opportunities, and the law predicts that within those programmes we have for the regular population special programmes and individual programmes for the benefit of these children who have special needs. This law, I mentioned, is a fundamental and basic law, some call it a roof law, I think it is primarily a basic law, is very important, because it opens up the possibility of adopting a series of special laws in the field of education, and in the coming period, of course on a proposal from the Ministry, with further work and commitment to this work, as it has proved in the last year, we will allow the adoption of a whole mosaic and a series of laws from this area. I would point out that the law also prescribes a certain kind of autonomy of education and education institutions, which is very important and one significant progress, one civilizational fluid or democratic value that needs to be pursued, and that we have recognised that as a value, of course through what the promoter is doing, and I think that there will also come praise from parliamentary groups. This autonomy is viewed through the way and selection of management bodies, management bodies, through selection and work, above all, the professional bodies of the school, but also in many other functions performed in educational institutions. On the other hand, the law foresees and so far seems to me better mechanisms by an educational authority that can be undertaken primarily by the Minister and the Ministry, but these mechanisms aim to prevent irregularities and in what is management and management, and the work of professional authorities and other functions, but it does so from another plan. It is not in the position of judgment, but primarily in order to prevent and prevent. This is certainly commendable and contributes certainly to a more stable system of education and training that gives assumptions for general progress. I would say that this education and education system, when it comes to education of children, starts through preschool education, and then we have primary education, and then we have one transition, which is a preschool preschool programme, practically this preschool programme that will now, by law, lead to a level playing field for our primary education system with what is the same education in other European countries. Where we have different formulas, 3+3, 3+3, where we have nine classes from first to ninth grade, and here we have practically this preschool preschool program for children who attend before first grade, whether or not it's written anywhere, as a zeroth grade, but certainly it's one system that goes hand in hand with what education is today in the modern world. I'd like to say a few words about what expert-pedagogical supervision and the work of pedagogical advisors is. I think that this function of the Ministry is very important and that sublegal acts should make the minister even closer to determining and determining the competences of these services in order to fully evaluate the quality of the work of the institutions, as well as all actors of the educational process in the institutions. It seems that this function of the ministry has been abandoned recently and backwards, which has given rise to once-unhappiness in many institutions and a drop in quality and a lack of attainment of what was the objectives and outcomes of education and education. Somehow it was almost the end of the school year, we have to admit that in many institutions we have that the fund of the class is not completed, that classes in some institutions are not being held, that we have a very pronounced campaign evaluation in the last week of the school year, and that it certainly is not appropriate for what should be a serious work in educational institutions, and it cannot give quality to whom we seek. To that I would ask, Mr. Minister, that you are really working and that this function of expert-pedagogical supervision is really going to end in terms of one zeal, one quality, and to give some results. I'd say more about what a network of schools is. I would ask you to really take care of it and not to come firmly into terms of rationality by how much it costs, but in the long run, by what is the need for Serbia to develop evenly in all its parts. When it comes to the law on the issue of textbooks and teaching tools, our MP group commends this law because it brings to the same level all publishers, both state and private, while allowing one competition to be healthy... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... which will give one quality and certainly with the support that publishers must have a license to do this job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-18-0.u24453	The word is Mr. Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-18-0.u24454	I must say, this reform in our education system began in 2003. We are now in 2009 and for the third time seriously changing the law that regulates the area. Children who went under a law that was in force in 2003 continued following some changes and additions, where the whole law was pretumbled in 2004, and now again in 2009 under some excuse from European reforms, under the pretext that something was not done right. I agree that a lot has not been done properly so far, we have a new proposal for a system of education laws. I'm just asking whether all previous ministers since 2001 were unable to write a good law or whether each minister, who has captured the Ministry of Education, wanted to leave a mark on the bill in the ministry. No matter what the consequences will be of those to whom this law applies, which should be applied. I have listened to a variety of praises about the bill itself on how it will improve the quality of teaching, about how we will have smarter and more educated people when they leave school, and I think Mr. Minister and gentlemen Members of the People, who you have talked about, is not a problem of the law. This law is only an administrative law, a law that should regulate the work of institutions, not a system of education. The quality of teaching is influenced by the law, rather than by how it is conducted in action. Quality of teaching, quality of material – technical means, quality of textbooks and teaching programs, that is what creates people, not the law. You need to work seriously on that part, Mr. Minister. Since this is just one administrative law, I ask the question - what has changed, Mr. Minister, since 2004 and 2005 from now on? That's when you had the chance to seriously change the law. You supported the government of Vojislav Kostunica, who amended the Preschool and school education system. What kind of an ex-post mind is this now, after just a few years, that we have here a more or less old law again in the debate, under the pretext that it's a whole new thing? Since it's still administrative law, I'm going to pay a little more attention to that matter, because someone mentioned the autonomy of school institutions. Let's talk a little bit about the consequences of a law like this can have on the state and on the ones to which the law applies. First, we can talk about the composition of the National Educational Council. I am very interested in being answered by the minister – what can they do in such an expert body, most important for the education system, a member of the ranks of representative unions established for the territory of the Republic of Serbia from the ranks of the profession? What do you mean, Mr. Minister, to determine which representative unions they are? What can the union even do here? Or, a member of the employers' association on the list of candidates submitted jointly by these associations. Let's explain to me what role these two representatives can play in the National Educational Council. Maybe it's funny to you, but if you look further, it'll be seen that it's not all for no reason and that we're still multiplying and how the state administration and the state apparatus. We have in Article 18. The Institute for Improving Education and Education. We can say that this institution should exist and it has its own organisational units, a programme development centre and textbooks, a centre for professional education and adult education, a centre for professional development of educational staff. And then in the next position, it seems in a desire to take care of some more, and yet to the harm of those for which the law was passed, it is said – the institution of Article 1 of this article may have other organisational units, in accordance with the statute. So there may be other centres, Mr. Minister, which will be paid again from the Republic of Serbia's budget. The fact that this law and its application is extremely expensive, and that it will not be felt in the quality of teaching and in the field, means in schools, can be seen from the Educational Quality Assessment Institute, so if you review Article 22 and the purpose of the existence of that institution, you will notice that its competences are doubled with the National Educational Council. Now I ask the question - who is older here and what if the Quality Assessment Institute disagrees with the National Educational Council and vice versa? What do we need two bodies with almost identical powers anyway? You'd better define the money in schools for better quality work and teaching. We see here in Article 23 that a practice is continuing here, introduced by Minister Dinkic. The bill, which says – to carry out certain tasks from its work, seduces them, can educate special expert commissions and teams in the field of education and education or to engage scientific and research institutions. Mr. Minister, here's a word that you wanted this for the best, but we've been taught by the practice so far – that all the money that goes to education of some commissions serves to find someone who's a friend or party-like in that commission, does some work, pays for it, and that work ends up in a drawer and never gets found again, let alone something used. You have scientific and research institutions whose founder is the Government of the Republic of Serbia, or the Republic of Serbia, so hire them anyway, because you keep saying that you don't have enough resources for scientific and research work – that they do these analyses, these projects, these works, maybe from one of these institutions, so they finance and provide funds for their independent projects. We've tried with a few amendments all of what we found in the law that it's not good to correct, I hope you'll consider them carefully. Someone mentioned the independence of institutions where the founder of the Republic, or AP, is a unit of local self-government, which is already being denied in several of the following members. In Article 35, where the authority responsible for carrying out inspection tasks, i.e. scientific, professional and pedagogical supervision, determines that the institution does not fulfil the prescribed working conditions or does not carry out its activities in a regulated manner, as well as in the event of a suspension of work or strike organised contrary to the law, it will set a time limit, etc. Mr Minister, in the follow-up to this article – unless the authority of the administration or the director has acted in accordance with the instructions given by the competent state authority, they will be relieved. Now I ask you – what links can the managing authority or the director have with the strike organised against the law? Explain that to me. So here you can see the obvious desire that, using certain situations, they would be appointed as members of the board and the director of some personnel, perhaps those who couldn't be chosen in some other way than this one. I don't doubt your good intentions, but that's what you wrote. Why is there no time limit in that Article 35 to the extent that the authority of the temporary administration can exist and how much can the appointed director exist in this way? It's said to be the longest year. In some of the following members, you predicted it would be six months, and I think it's quite, quite enough time for some irregularities to be removed. In Article 57, Mr. Minister, as regards the authority of the managing authority, the most frequently mentioned school boards, I can say that you have written a strange circumstance – that the managing authority makes decisions for most of the votes of the total number of members. I would like, Mr. Minister, to write such a thing in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia for the National Assembly – when laws are passed that the absolute majority of MPs must vote for them. However, for certain situations an absolute majority may vote, such as the selection of directors, statutes and other general and administrative acts, etc., but not for all, because you will in this way – block the work of school committees. You'll block them, because what if six or seven members of the school board come in, four vote for, three against, and it takes five, because there are nine of them, since you wrote it like that? I can tell from article 62 that it's contrary to Article 57 of the Law. It concerns the responsibilities of the Director of the Educational Institute, and it is said – the Director adopts a general act on the organisation and systemization of jobs. Look at Article 57, Mr. Minister, and in point 1), point (1) is said to be – it adopts statutes, rules of conduct in the institution and other general acts, etc. The Director cannot adopt a systematization act alone and other general acts – it must be done by the Authority. So, the director will be able absolutely without anyone's consent to make decisions, to set up, to solve, to invent jobs, to invent responsibilities in jobs, without the decision of the managing authority. Article 63, we can discuss this when it comes to the autonomy of the institution, and Article 63 paragraph 2 of point 8 says, when the director of a school institution is resolved, and one of the reasons can be the order of an educational inspector. The law must provide for conditions for when a director is dismissed, and not to be, I apologize, in paragraph 5: the managing authority shall authorise the director of the institution to the extent that an educational inspector has been ordered within eight days. The Educational Inspector can't impose such a measure. He's obliged to make a record, to postpone the measure, and he can't order it in this case. You've laid down the law when the director has to be replaced and you stick to it. Don't let the inspectors and others do it as they please. Now, I'd like to talk a little bit more about that preschool education, and I don't have enough time for all the things that you've done in this administrative section to make up for, we're going to try something through the amendments. You've introduced preschool education to be mandatory to everyone. I can't agree with that, not right now. First create conditions, Mr. Minister, you're in the government to make that possible. When you leave Belgrade and get your shoes dirty with some mud, then you can figure out what it means to force parents and young children to travel to schools in villages for another year. You're talking about how there's no money. I agree, he's gone, you're spending too much on the wrong stuff. The greatest burden for this fulfilment of the legal provisions has been determined by local self-governments that have a network of preschool institutions, and only if there is no preschool institution can this be done at school. Understand that this parent who's out of a job today who's barely making ends meet must have that child's equipment, ready, secure transport and bring him back home. When it comes to the quality of the personnel that such schools in this system are going to throw out, or create, and you say that it is now at an extremely low level, I can ask you – what will a member of you, I think, is 108th, that someone will be able to finish the class with insufficient grades. So it's enough to go to class and not get kicked out of school, but it's going to end the class and those grades that he's had, which are insufficient, transfer as a student, be careful, you've done this since primary school, as a student transferring to the next class according to some special program and taking those exams as an emergency student. Imagine a little, does that mean it can improve the quality of teaching. A student can go to second grade if he mastered all the material, and if it's not all the material from the beginning, he'll probably learn something again. Not simply by means of an improvisation, we increase the speed of getting kids out of school as finished students, or maybe it'll fix that relationship of yours about who finished primary school, statistical data, who's in part, who's only the first two or three classes and so on. I could talk about this law for a long time. But, Mr. Minister, I can only tell you, you're in such a place now to be aware of the fact that no one has the right to experiment on our children, as you said, that this is the most important area in the country and to approach it extremely responsibly. As we have heard from some discussions, this is not all according to EU legislation, and I would like to re-exploit personnel from our schools as we will be proud of and make our schools complete people and experts in certain areas, not to be guinea pigs from minister to minister, from government to government, from election to election.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-18-0.u24455	The word has the People's Messenger Zoran Shami.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-18-0.u24456	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. Minister, I will repeat, and it is not a waste, once again, that I really think it is a great shame that this law has not been left for another month or two to be completed, to fulfill most of what needs to be fulfilled. I'm afraid that the proposed text, even when it's corrected by some amendments, is simply that some things cannot be fixed in amendment. The DSS has four groups of objections to this law. I'll try to explain everything to you, something that was already said by Mrs. Banovic and Mr. Samardzic. First, the language of the law. I don't belong at all to people looking for hair in an egg and who are some language puritans, but, excuse the expression, I'm afraid the law, regardless of the text it offers, is written illiterate. I can understand that some narrow engineering laws may be able to use some terms that are not everyone's best known, etc. I could have an understanding of that. One educational law, therefore, must be written in a pure unequivocal Serbian language. There's a lot of examples for that. First, very often foreign words are used unnecessarily instead of existing and good Serbian words. For example, the word "unique" school is used instead of being a "single" school. When you say something is unique, it's usually meant for a woman's dress. Furthermore, the constructions of sentences are like that, believe me, I've had to read some of the articles five times to understand what is said in them, and then it turns out that what is claimed isn't bad, it's just written so you need a good analysis to read what the writer was going to say. The constructions of sentences, a translation from a foreign language is visible, for example, in English. A third of the sentences in the text of the law are written in passive form, instead of in some natural active form, which is much more in the spirit of the Serbian language. Of course, through the amendments, we haven't mostly corrected this. That's one general remark. I really don't understand why this text simply couldn't be written in pure language. In history, many greats and great Serbian minds have been ministers of education, not recently, but starting with Dosite Obradovic and beyond, it is really inappropriate for a law on education to be written this way. Another group of problems is about, I'd say, our identity. First of all, I've read the text of the law carefully several times. In law you know which word is forbidden, does not appear in any place – patriotism. I hope you agree that children, even preschool children, should be instilled in love for their country. These children, when they grow up, must respect and love all other nations and all other states. How will they do that if someone doesn't teach them to love their country? The word patriotism does not exist in any function, goal, standard, call it whatever you want, related to education and child education. Secondly, if we were to throw out the Serbian language in a few places and then translate this law, for example. in English and let someone read it, he wouldn't know if the law was written for Iceland, the Philippines, Argentina or Serbia. We have our great national history and we have our national culture, we have all sorts of works that this people have created over the centuries. It turns out that a few years ago, we gathered on the ice like some crazy tribe and made a state. Read the French law on education, for example. Try to get a national identity decree out of that law. The third group of problems, I apologize, is my general impression that this is one ideological law. Only instead of Marxism-leninism, self-government socialism, working class and everything else mentions mantra Europe, but not in that fundamentally positive sense, but as a mantra, as a swearing. From when we were born to death, only Europe exists. In doing so, European values are mentioned. There are European values, and there is something beyond European values. There are national values, but there are also some generalization values. If you go into human history, probably the first of some civilization values came up with by the Chinese. They had the first one organized civilised society 4,000 years ago. You can talk about general civilization values, you can talk if you want about universal values, it's all right, and the point is fine, but there's not just European values. Next, you're even talking about European standards. What standards? There is no common policy in the area of education at EU level. They do not even adopt common rules, as in some other areas, make recommendations. What are those standards? Is the standard of education in Spain the same as in England? It's not. Therefore, that is why I say that the term European repeats itself as a mantra, as our solemn oath that we will do so and then we think that Europe will love and respect us because we say so. He won't. Finally, the fourth group of objections refers to some concrete solutions. There will be more words about it when we talk about it in detail. Now I'm just going to open up a few principle questions. Let's just say, it's a question of the managing authority at school. We used to have a system for the minister to determine the directors and it's a good thing we left that system. He was not good, nor can the minister of education, however well-intentioned he was, however smart he was and whatever honest he was, to well appoint several thousand directors by educational institutions. In the current law, that right is given to local self-government. It's a better solution, but I'm afraid that this solution has also been shown badly in practice, and I'm afraid a new solution needs to be found. In particular, in poor municipalities, we must be aware that education, health, and police are practically the only places where people can be employed or can get some, conditionally speaking, good job. Then of course local self-government, recruiting representatives of the most common parent advice, imposes on schools some human resources, according to how local government was formed. I don't think that's good, even if my party is in power in that municipality. I think there's got to be some balance here. We tried to make a suggestion, so we'll discuss what we suggested. Quite shy, and I'd say a bit of a hidden promotion is the idea of removing entrance exams for high schools and colleges and having a metric prom. I don't think it's a bad idea, but for my taste it's not enough, it's shyly done, it's not worked out enough to which it could have been worked out, no matter what it's going to be the subject of some later laws or sublegal acts, there was still room and opportunity for such a thing to be found in this law. I'm going to mention one more thing, I think the concept of a specialized school and somewhere related to this issue of special work with talents, something Mrs. Djeric was talking about, is hardly being defined at all, not at all. It's almost impossible to change the amendments. I think we have a great need and we even have a very good experience, and I'm going to remind you, for example, of Philology High School, Math High School, I think we should be particularly involved in organising specialized schools, especially schools that will include that large number of very talented children who, I'm afraid, don't have a great chance in this regular education. Because as long as you break up with all those students who don't want to learn, who can't learn for some reason, who for some reason are psychophysicalally disabled, etc., it's all right to take care of such students, but somewhere else a group, not so small, of 1,000 or 2,000 talented children from various areas, goes undetected and we don't take advantage of the opportunity to take them for their own good, but also the good of the state in some way, we help their development, etc. The Democratic Party of Serbia has submitted 52 amendments to the law. I told you already, we could have submitted at least another 100 amendments, but it just wouldn't make sense. We tried to iron those amendments out those ironing things and ironing them. So, about them, we will, of course, discuss these amendments when amendments are discussed. In the end, just a few sentences about this second law. No doubt there is a law on textbooks to be passed. It's one substance that's long been regulated, I think it's the last law since 1993. We could say she's completely unregulated. So, one very sensitive substance. Personally, I've had experience with it, I've written 13 textbooks in my life, and I know all about the technology of publishing textbooks, about all the marifettes that exist there, etc. It took one law to try to fix it, where, right away, I don't expect, the practice will show, probably in a few years, and this law would have to be somehow, in some parts repaired. Generally speaking, this law is far more correct than this first one. We only have two serious objections to this law, which we have referred to in some five amendments, and then, when discussed, we will make a statement about it. I will conclude this exposure by repeating the DSS's position that it is a shame that there was no opportunity to make one joint effort, all the political parties and in this Parliament and beyond, to come up with a more quality text of the law, because this is the area that deserves it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-18-0.u24457	Does he want the word from the authorised representative of the G 17 Plus political group? Snow White Stojanović-Plasic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-18-0.u24458	The G17 Plus Parliamentary Group will support both of these laws and I would like to point out that at least three other congregation working bodies, whose work I have been involved in, supported by most of their votes by these laws, and this is the Committee on Education, the Assembly Working Body for the Rights of the Child and the Assembly Committee on the Reduction of Poverty. Learning, when an individual is concerned, begins that moment of birth and lasts until his death. Learning, when it comes to society, peoples, and if you want civilization, is a process that is uninterrupted and difficult to determine the beginning, and it's impossible to determine the end. But what is a real challenge for the state is to set up a framework and a system in which learning and education will be implemented. Are there ideal frames and are there ideal systems? They don't exist. Are there much better systems than ours? Yes, there is. We often have a delusion about it and say that our education system is good, because when our children go abroad they usually show very good results or people who are educated in our system achieve exceptional results in the areas for which they have been educated and become top foreign experts. This is not a good indicator simply because it is about exceptional individuals who would likely achieve such results in some poor education systems. But their achievements just point out that our system is not good enough, because it does not provide enough conditions for most people to develop to the maximum of their personal limitations and all their possible capacities. That's what a serious education system should do and what it should weigh. I believe this law lays the foundation of such a system. He's not systematic just because he's setting up an area of education, I believe this law is systematic because he regulates the basics of our society. Because by setting up a system of education, you also set up a value system of society. Do we want to have one conformist, authoritarian society or do we want to have a society in which each individual will be free to develop all his abilities, including creative opinion, including the right to freedom of expression, conclusion and the ultimate limits of his own development throughout his life. I deeply believe in these other values and therefore I think that this law, precisely in the part in which it defines the basics of its postulates, the basic principles, the objectives of education, the outcomes of education, laid the foundations for the development of our education system, but also for the development of our society. What they're given at the level of generality is something that's completely understandable, because they're putting it that way and based, because I just don't think there's anything that needs to be explained. You can't specify something in general principles. What's been a feature of our education system so far? First of all, the incomplete coverage of all the members of our society. First of all, I think of children with developmental disorders and people with disabilities, but I also think of some rural areas where the education system, mildly said, did not function well and did not function in the right way. Also, our education system has not provided a good model so-called. the concept of lifelong learning. There are whole social groups that have been largely excluded from the education system. Why was the system a conformist? I think we've all had a chance at school to hear that it's not very desirable to have a special opinion, that you should fit in on average, most of it. Type sentences – you're not the smartest one, don't ask questions all the time, what you know, listen and write, remember, are some of the sentences we've heard, which our children listen to and which, unfortunately, are really not the right model for education. Learning in our education system is mostly reduced to just one of its elements, which is memory. The memory and reproduction of as many data as possible guaranteed an excellent assessment and a good perspective in the education system. Of course, as I said before, our system is also characterized by exceptional individuals. When I say that, I'm talking about both kids and teachers. But contrary to brilliant individuals, there are a very large number of those who have not found themselves in that system. Not in the end, but from what I've managed to count, our system has naturally characterized and profound discrepancies, both with the modernisation of society and international flows, and with our economy, its development and its needs. This, of course, produced not only an insufficient level of education of people in our system, we have already heard data from the minister, but has produced, unfortunately, and not enough rapid development of our society, and produced, unfortunately, a very high degree of poverty in our society. What's the new law offering? What I would single out is, above all, that individualization of education. Education as a process should be directed, according to how this law foresees, to an individual, to a child, to an individual, to reveal his abilities, to update these abilities, to cultivate creativity, to freedom of opinion, to connect, to implement conclusions, to save each individual for a long-term lifelong learning, to involve him in society and to include him in modern civilization flows. I think it's one of the basic values of this law. To support that, I'm going to set a few goals that are set here. They read as follows: developing motivation for learning, training for learning, learning and education throughout life and including international educational and professional processes. I would like to emphasise, in particular, point 7) – the development of self-awareness, self-initiative, the ability to self-evaluate and express my opinion. I wish everyone who works in schools could hear me. The development of key competences needed for life in modern society, training for work and interest in the creation of professional competences, in line with the requirements of occupation, the development of modern science, economics, technology and techniques. I think that this is how the foundations are very clear and I hope they will be implemented in practice, although it is the area in which I have the most doubts about this law. Also, what this law emphasises is the support of those with reduced abilities, children with developmental disorders enables them to get involved in this system, but also in one part it also stresses the need to provide maximum achievements to those children who stand out by their abilities and talents. Perhaps I can agree with some discussions that this was not detailedly worked out by this law and perhaps a better solution was that individual plans were envisaged for students who were particularly talented, but I hope that sublaws and further work would be such a thing... It's already scheduled? I'm sorry, I didn't find it very carefully in the law. So, then I point out really as one of the special values of this law, because it will allow both the weakest and the strongest in the education system to find their place in it and make maximum use of all their development capacities. There's something I want to say about teachers. The law stipulates, I will avoid the word gratification, the law provides for rewarding teachers who achieve special results, or who are constantly training during their work. I think that's a very good solution. Unfortunately, we've never had that opportunity before. The system was even in this part. So, whether the teachers were working very hard, getting extraordinary results, getting education and doing all the time, whether they didn't, the system treated them equally. Then the logical question was why would someone engage additionally and it all came down to the individual need of people who are responsible for their work to give something more to children. Of course, we are all witnessing that the competitions that our colleagues talked about and the extraordinary achievements of children depend largely on how and to what extent their teachers engage in their training. I also want to mention one phenomenon that we're all aware of in this society, which is the payment of so-called. extra lessons for the kids. At one meeting, I heard a number I can't repeat right now, and I think it was millions of euros, whose parents in their pockets are paying for extra lessons. I am witnessing that this was happening to children who are excellent students, that simply for some subject they had to have additional support and that, say, 50% of parents or 90% of parents in that department are paying extra lessons to their children, which makes the absolute system absolutely unfair, because they can only pay parents who have the opportunity to pay for such a thing. The analyses have shown that if all the money we give were attended by a number of fellow MPs, then everyone started signing up and saying – and my money is in that money. So a large number of people have to pay extra lessons for their children. If all that money got into the education system, we'd have a much better education system. How do we do that? Well, by further motivating teachers who will do their job so we don't all have to pay for extra lessons. Also, when we talk about teachers, I want to say something about the evaluation system. This law clearly defines, and the previous law has defined that the assessment is public, this law clearly states that the assessment is public and that it must at the same time explain itself to the child. I think it's very important. It's very important that the teacher, the teacher in front of the entire department, explain the grade he gave, because, believe me, the children are very well rated among themselves, they know exactly who deserves what grade, but very often in the diary they see other grades. Now it opens up a story field to get those other grades and how much pressure they put on teachers to give a student a certain grade. Of course, many of them are under pressure. To keep from talking about it, I'm going to say something about inclusion as a special value of this law. This is a really big step for our whole society. I think we should all be aware of that. So far, children with developmental disorders, even when it comes to easier developmental disturbances, easier intellectual difficulties, could not be involved in a regular education system. Those kids had to attend special schools. Why? Not because they were sent there by someone with their own bad will, but because the education system was not ready, regular schools were not ready to accept such children because they had very strict standards of achievements that applied equally to all children. It could happen that a child who, for example, suffers from muscle dystrophy and is completely intellectually preserved, because he cannot have an achievement in writing due to motor disabilities, could not attend a regular school. It was something that became totally unacceptable and totally unacceptable over time, and it seemed that a large number of children had fallen out of the education system. This time for the first time, I have to say, with great resistance and numerous professional circles and special schools fighting for their survival, the first time an inclusive education is introduced in Serbia and of course we have no illusions that tomorrow will bring all possible changes and change all the injustices that exist in the system. But the door is open, the adjustments are expected and this is an opportunity for our society, not because it is a European standard, a social inclusion, in the end all these modern standards are not there to impose on someone, but because it is indeed the result of the development of civilization. So it is the standard of one solidarity, one society that cares about others, is the standard that everyone under equal conditions can be involved in social life, and especially that they can be involved in education. On the other hand, it's not something we do for people who have developmental or disability, but it's something we do for ourselves, for society as a whole, because no society can develop unless it uses all its potentials and the potential of all its members. So this inclusive approach that this law offers is something that is of interest not to the education system, not to the individual, not to parents or children, but to the whole society. Also, the law respects respect for human rights, the rights of all, the rights of children, the rights of teachers, the rights of parents. It extends the responsibility and involvement of both parents and local communities and children in making decisions in the education process, and I think it is very important. I would like to highlight the very well-positioned role of school parliaments which are given quite a responsibility, but I would also say that they have an open and large possibility that children themselves, according to the principles of the Convention on Fundamental Children's Rights, have an impact on their environment and on their lives. Of course, as the special value of this law is to harmonize with global flows and economies. What I'm trying to say is that one of my most difficult experiences and experiences of my family during my children's education was to make some of the subjects from a class called technical education. I had to make, believe it or not, an electric motor, with all the screws manually done, so that it would produce electricity. I really challenge all of us to produce such an engine and then we can answer the question – can our children do it? They can't do it. On the other hand, they have two hours, now I've checked, that technical education a week, all with those saws and splinters, and once in two weeks of information. Of course he's very worried about how the law will apply. It is a great challenge for all of us to follow the application of this law. I believe it is necessary to have a consistent knowledge of the educational public, parents and children with the provisions of this law, at least with some basic. I suggest that, let's say, they might also print posters with basic principles of education and basic goals and that every school has them on it. I'll end up with that when one of my kids went to school seven years ago, it came from a state-owned Bucharest that said, "My house is Europe." It has been many years since then, and children will be able to travel through Europe as they do through their home next year, and in a few years they will live in Europe as they do in their home. I want to say that the provision that says this - that one of the objectives is to develop the capacity for the role of a responsible citizen for life in a democratically regulated and human society, based on respect for human and civil rights, the right to diversity and care for others, as well as the basic values of justice, truth, freedom, honesty and personal responsibility, that this is something that will ensure that the whole world for our children is a house in which they feel good.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-18-0.u24459	The word has been issued by MP Nikola Savic, an authorised representative of the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-18-0.u24460	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us a bill on the foundations of the education and education system, as well as a proposal for a law on textbooks and other teaching tools, which are discussed in a united debate and are adopted by an urgent procedure. I can accept the fact that these two laws are being considered in a united debate. The matter they treat is similar and connected. I can't accept that these laws are passed by emergency procedure and right now, at a time when students, teachers, teachers and all those involved in school and education are on vacations. When you pass this law and begin to apply it, the ones for which it is brought, which are, above all, students, probably and believe me, will not even notice that this law has been passed, because the essence of what matters to them, to the students, is not in this law. As far as students are concerned, above all, there are laws on primary and secondary schools and many rules, such as the regulation on evaluation, rule of conduct, final, senior exam, retraining, retraining, etc., and many of these regulations have not changed since the time of Minister Daca Markovic. In the adoption of these laws, the main word was clearly led by educators and psychologists, and you, Mr. Obradovic, confirmed it in your interpretation of this law before this National Assembly, and we have seen it now, from the presentation of Mrs. Stojanović-Plasic. Of course, I do not dispute that this structure should participate in the adoption and creation of this law, but they have dropped one thing here – there is not enough care about educational workers, and I will remind you that educational workers have about 102 thousand in Serbia. In this law, teachers are literally not left with any space in the realization and realization of the curricula and programmes. I want to remind you that educational workers, first of all, are educated people and nowhere, in any other branch like that in schools and education there are not so many educated people in one place, and we can see from here that no creativity and freedom in the work of these people is allowed. The law practically puts everything in the hands of the minister, and I must remind you that several of the last governments have not been celebrated by the election of ministers of education. On this occasion, Mr. Obradovic, I do not want to put you in this category, but based on what I heard from you today and on what I saw in this law, believe me that if it stays this way, you will be in a group of those ministers who, as I said, have not made a full or almost no contribution to Serbian education. We need to know that education is something that results in long-term pathways and that it is a strategic matter of every country. Here, Mr. Minister, you provided statistics on the structure and level of education of the Serb population and of the Serbian nation. I've got some different data from the ones you've given, but basically, more or less, the data I have and that you've said are compatible and I just want to point out that in Serbia 21% of the population over the age of 16 has not completed primary school. That doesn't surprise me, if there's any other information, which is that our country singles out 3.5% of GDP for education, and we know well that the world standard is 6% least, and in some countries it goes up to 9%. The future of the nation is not in cheap labour, but, above all, in educated and professional staff. In the light of the laws you have given, it is mentioned that union representatives, representative or others, participated in this law, but I would say that it is better to say that union leaders who, I must say, took care of themselves because of a huge number of educators. They weren't taking care of the interests of the educators, they were taking care of themselves, and I'm going to prove it to you. You used it to show that some other structures, such as trade unions, were involved in the adoption of this law, and that there were public debates, and in essence of this debate, we can say freely, there was no. You mentioned Belgrade, Novi Sad, Nis, from whom I came. I've spoken to a lot of educators, but that public debate is almost, you can say, never existed. When I mentioned these representatives or better said union presidents by school, their role was extremely stressed. They're literally wondering about everything and everything. They have powers that are greater than the powers of the director. They ask themselves, or they consult in the appointment and discharge of directors, the reception of workers, the adoption of the final account, the financial plans and all that, and they have no responsibility at all. These representatives, better said union presidents, provided themselves in such a way that, at the end of their role as union president in schools, they cannot be fired for three years. I wonder what's wrong with the other workers, the other educators? We know, unfortunately, that children are getting smaller in Serbia, that the school network is such that we have departments that do not satisfy the prescribed minimum and large number of educators are threatening to quit, but above all, the representatives, or union presidents, are being taken care of here. The grudge against this law is next. A very large administration has been scheduled. This law provides for two councils, the National Educational Council that so far existed and the newly foreseen Council for Professional Education and Adult Education. Then we have two institutions, each of these institutions has multiple centers, so these centers can form an unlimited number of teams, commissions, etc. We also have school administrations, local self-governments can also form centers, not to mention that Vojvodina has its own special Education Secretariat. Indeed, this accumulation of administration and institutions is unnecessary, especially at the time of this financial crisis, and more importantly at a time when each day the number of students is growing. Communication between institutions, centres, agencies and schools is not best regulated by this law, and in practice, believe me, it almost doesn't exist. Very often there is a overlap between competences, as one of my colleagues from other parliamentary groups spoke, and the National Educational Council and the Council on Professional Education and Adult Education, which will be formed by this law. Because of these overlapping powers and poor communication, very serious problems arise. This best shows the latest sad example of enrolling our founders in high school. You know, it's only about twenty days after our kids took the entrance exam literally on the last day, when their parents were supposed to take the files to the schools they were admitted to, to find out which school they were admitted to. On this occasion, I see no reason why the process of the admission exam, although it will now be regulated differently by law, for the process to be extended for a month, where both parents, of course, and children and also educational workers, are needlessly harassed. The lack of this communication that I was talking about is being used by NGOs, which organise a large number of seminars, under the auspices of the Ministry of Education. Of course, all the educators know that. These seminars give very weak or you can say no results. Some seminars are so well-conceived that the intelligence of educators is literally offended. You make us a system of education according to EU models, however, you need to know that economically successful countries, such as Finland, Ireland, China, etc. They opposed this way of education and did not accept it. I want to stress that education should follow the labour market, but unfortunately, in our terms, the labour market is almost nonexistent for already known reasons. If you get a little bit into that matter, you can see that, say, today's market is looking for some little welds for abroad, especially for Slovenia, some little waiters for the Montenegrin coast and girls for cafes, and that would be pretty much all. All of this requires a much more serious and thorough education strategy. I have to go back to this other law, the law on textbooks and other teaching tools, which is also very important, and I can say that I have a lot more trouble with this law than I do with this law on the foundations of education and education systems. The school reform, which has been taking place for a long time under the name "New School", also envisions a reform among textbook publishers. Today, every publisher in Serbia, whether he is a private or state publisher, does not matter, according to his choice, and hires the author, one or more authors, who make the deal and afterwards start writing textbooks. The publisher finds the reviewers, and when the job is done, then the technicians and the graphicians come into the scene, everything these writers wrote wraps between the colorful cover and the more colorful the cover, and the better the books are sold and easier to place between our students and schools. Each school, or teacher, teacher, has the right to choose the textbook he considers to be the best and to recommend it to his students. I want to remind you that there is no need to mention at all what parameters will affect which textbooks will be recommended to children. Much less attention will be paid to the essence and quality of the textbooks, and much more to some other things that I don't want to mention here, and you all know what they mean. I'll stay the most in history books, because history is nothing more than the memory of one nation, one state, and there's a fine line between the use of the abuse of history. History, or teaching history, should be subordinated to national objectives and national values and national aspirations. But you'll see from examples that I'm going to tell you that's not exactly the case. If the past can't change, we know that there are some things that can be changed about how to look at that past. By using history, believe me, it can affect much more powerfully and much more effectively some people and some things than some other means. It's not just history, it can be influenced by other means. Those who are seriously involved in the indoctrination of Serbs today work systematically on long paths and on long term, which is the most suitable treatment of children, means young populations. I'll list a few things from one history textbook for the sixth grade of elementary school. History for the sixth grade of elementary school is practically a history that our students face seriously for the first time, and you know that first impression is both the most important and the longest. I'm not a history teacher, so don't think I'm saying that. The textbook, written by Dr. Djordje Bubalo and Branka Becanovic, on page 24, deals with a teaching unit that speaks of religion. Of course, this is about polytheism, Christianity, Islam, Judaism, etc. As a contribution to the lesson given, pictures of religious objects are given, but imagine the Christian religion is not an image of an Orthodox church, but a picture of a Catholic church in Vojvodina. My people, I don't think it's necessary to remind that Serbia is a predominantly Orthodox country. Of course, there are other confesions. Furthermore, on page 124 of that same textbook, a lesson that speaks of clergy is supported, believe me, by a picture of the Roman pope. There's no picture of a Serbian patriarch anywhere, no picture of a Moscow Patriarch, Alexanderian, Vasilenian, Jerusalemian, no, just a picture of a Roman pope. Furthermore, in the same book on page 150, it is said that the Roman Pope Honorius III crowned Serbian King Stefan Nemanjec the firstborn. Again, I suppose you can guess what I'm going to say, there's no picture of Stephen the First, but there's a picture of the aforementioned Pope Honory the Third. In all of this, I recognize certain elements of proselytism. Furthermore, lessons that talk about Karadjord and Milos, and we know that Karadjordje and Milos freed Serbia and gave him folk dynasties, unlike all our neighbours who did not have their own dynasties that were imposed on them, so as the main characteristic of Karadjordje and Milos, it is said that they were pig merchants, it is their main characteristic. Believe me, nothing better has happened to ordinary citizens. Another drastic example. In one basic school textbook that discusses the regulation of traffic lights at intersections, on the pages of the textbook there is a picture of a Croatian policeman with a chess gun on his sleeve and a Croatian paw on his head. I really don't have a comment on all this. We all remember the affair of a few years ago when one historical reader was published in the edition of the Centre for Democracy and Reconciliation from Thessaloniki. For objectivity, I must say that all the nations in our environment have had certain objections to that reading book and have all banned the use of this book in their schools. Only our competent authorities, with the exception of one book, allowed the use of this book in our schools, and for example in these readers, there is not a single word in these books about the largest Serbian site in the Second World War, of course it is Jasenovac. Furthermore, two years ago, a school historical atlas of a Slovenian company was published with us. Well, fortunately, that atlas didn't go to school, but his price was really low. The press is in a huge circulation, the distribution went through the kiosk and could buy it almost anyone, so if someone hasn't learned something or skipped a lesson in schools, home when it's listed, it'll have the opportunity to miseducated and to misrepresent education based on it. Let's see why our textbooks contain such things that are not in line with our national interests. It's approaching these 20 minutes, so if you'll allow me to speak for another two minutes, so take that time off from the time of the parliamentary group belonging to the SRS, because it's in the context of all this we've been working on. What's all this about? I would like to point out that Croatian tycoon Ante Zuzul, who is the brother of Tudjman's foreign minister and a witness to Serbian Miomir Zuzul, is largely printing and selling textbooks in Serbia. According to some data provided by Belgrade publishers, the company has covered about 40% of the domestic textbook market in Serbia. (Zarko Obradovic, from the place: What is the company's name? Yeah, I'll tell you. Ante Zuzul is a professor of Croatian language, and he used to do construction. Since 2005, he has purchased the formerly powerful Belgrade-based BIGZ and has built two companies from the BIGZ. One company is BIGZ Pablishing and has opened a school book branch from Zagreb... (President: Time. Let me just say it to the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-18-0.u24461	Okay, but you've been talking for 22 minutes. I'll take some time for the MP's group.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-18-0.u24462	I'll continue later. (The Faith of Radet, from the place: you disobeyed him.) He only asked two minutes to explain. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-18-0.u24463	I listened to him. We only have one more authorized representative. The word is by Mr. Jon Magda, as an authorised representative of the parliamentary group for European Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-18-0.u24464	Dear President, Mr. Minister, the honourable representatives of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before the very beginning of the interpretation of this law, I would only have a few information. These laws have great support for the professional public. What I'm trying to say is that the Education Committee's address has come to a lot of letters of support for these laws. From here I would welcome the work of the Ministry and in making these laws they were very correct and they had a broad public debate, and now it is much easier for us to adopt these laws. I'll try to explain in short lines, for the sake of the public, some provisions of the law on the basis of the education and education system. This proposal systematically regulates education and education in the Republic of Serbia, in line with standards in line with the EU's legal assets, with important recommendations for development strategies adopted by the government and in line with the National Programme for the integration of the Republic of Serbia into the EU. The reasons for the adoption of an emergency law are the need to respect the experience indicators of the quality and efficiency of education in the Republic of Serbia relating to the results of student achievements obtained through international comparative research. In Chapter I of the Law, the principles and objectives of education and education, general outcomes of education, standards of achievement of children and students, the activity of pre-school, primary and secondary education and education, the exercise of educational-experienced work, the right to education, use of language, records and public documents are regulated. For the first time, the bill determines the general outcomes and standards of education and education. The citizens of the Republic of Serbia are equal in exercising their right to education and education regardless of gender, race, national, religious and linguistic membership, social and cultural origin, property, age, physical and mental constitution, development and disability disturbances, political determination. In Chapter II of the Law, the types, works and composition of institutions for the development and provision of quality of education and training shall be regulated. For the purpose of monitoring, enabling development and improving the quality of education and education, the National Educational Council is educated - for pre-school, primary and secondary general and artistic education and education and the Council for professional education and education of adults - for secondary vocational education and education, other forms of vocational education - education for work, vocational training and training. The President and members of the National Educational Council shall be elected by the National Assembly. I want to record that's what we've had before. The Council for Professional Education and Adult Education, appointed by the Government, is a new body. Chapter III of the Law provides for the types of institutions that carry out the work of education and education and other issues of importance for their establishment and work. The work of education and education is carried out by the following institutions: pre-school education and education - pre-school institution; primary education and education - primary school; primary school for adult education, primary music, or ballet school, primary school for education of students with development disorders; secondary education and education - secondary school, i.e. High school (general and specialized), vocational school, mixed school ( both gymnasium and professional or artistic), art school, high school for adult education and secondary school for students with developmental disorders, and when providing accommodation and nutrition for students is then a school with a home. The establishment can be established by the Republic of Serbia, the AP, a unit of local self-government, another domestic and foreign legal or physical person. When the institution is founded by the Republic of Serbia, the AP, a unit of local self-government, it is established in accordance with the act on the network. The adoption of acts on a network of kindergartens and primary schools remains in the jurisdiction of the Republic of Serbia, with the AP entrusted with the right to establish a network of secondary schools in the province's territory. The draft law proposes a new solution to be made in the unit of local self-government in which the language and letter of the national minority is officially used, i.e. in which educational and experimental work is carried out in the language and letter of the national minority, an act of a network of kindergartens and primary schools, with the opinion of the national minority council, whose language and letter is used in educational work. In the field of education and education, institutions are given greater autonomy in connecting with other institutions, and greater responsibility for quality assurance. The bill gives importance to a positive atmosphere in the establishment and task of all employees to develop and cultivate it. The provisions of the bill which protect all – children, students and employees from discrimination, violence, abuse, neglect, party organisation and action are of particular importance. The paper in the bill presents provisions governing the quality of work of the institution. In addition to external system support provided by counselling institutions, institutions and the Ministry, the institution has an obligation to take care of and improve the conditions for the development of education and education on its own and in co-operation with local self-government. In order to ensure the quality of work in the establishment, it is worth achieving the goals and standards of achievement, education and education programmes, development plan and satisfaction of pupils and parents, i.e. guardians of children and students. In the light of the situation and the interest of the Republic, the bodies of the institution whose founder is the Republic of Serbia, the AP and the unit of local self-government, the composition and competence of the managing body and the advice of the parents, the conditions and procedure of choice, the responsibility, responsibility and termination of the duties of directors, the acting directors and assistant directors, the professional bodies of the institution and the secretary of the institution shall be regulated in Chapter IV of the Law. Chapter V of the Law provides for all examinations which complete a certain level, i.e. a type of education: a final exam in basic education and education, general, professional and artistic graduation in four years of secondary education, a final exam in secondary vocational education, specialist and master's exam, as well as exams of other forms of vocational education. The examination programmes shall be carried out by the minister on a proposal from the competent council. Basic education is obtained after the final exam, on which the standard of achievement is checked and the public document is issued. It is important to say that the final exam in primary education will be passed for the first time by a generation of school students 2010/11. The year ends eighth grade. In Chapter VI of the bill, the organisation of the school's work within the school year, preschool institutions during the working year, school calendar, annual work plan, conditions when the educational-experienced work of the institution is interrupted, the right to free education, duration and conditions for enrolment in each level of education. Compared to the solution so far, the preschool preschool programme will be attended by a child for nine months, four hours a day. This is another newspaper. In Chapter VII of the Law, the rights of children and pupils and the obligations and responsibilities of pupils, evaluation, means of protection of rights – objection and appeal for assessment, application for examination and application for protection of the rights of pupils, obligations and responsibilities of pupils, educational and disciplinary proceedings, educational and educational discipline measures, as well as legal protection of pupils. In Chapter VIII of the Bill, the rights, obligations and responsibilities of teachers, educators, professional associates and other staff shall be governed in a special way. Conditions for entry into employment have been extended to all staff in the institution. For everyone in the institution, appropriate education, mental, physical and health skills for working with children and students are required during employment and during work. Chapter IX of the Law provides for inspection and expert pedagogical supervision. The provisions of this chapter are in line with the State Administration Act. In this connection, the Ministry of Labour of Institutions and Institutions is conducting inspection and expert pedagogical supervision. The paper represents the duty of continuous professional training of educational inspectors and educational advisers in order to better achieve and improve the supervision they carry out, with the programme and forms of professional training, the way in which they check the mastery of the programme, the form of assurance of the mastered programme and other issues related to professional training being prescribed by the minister. The paper in the draft law is an external associate that is being introduced to provide advisory and professional assistance to the teacher, educator and expert associate, professional councils, actors and teams: demonstration of procedures and methods, maintenance of the hours or activities, providing feedback on the activities and actions of teachers, educators and professional associates, providing professional recommendations for improving work and collaboration with the educational adviser and inspector. In Chapter X of the Bill of Law, a new concept of education funding is being edited. According to the provisions of this Chapter, the means of financing the activity of institutions are determined on the basis of the economic price for the achievement of the programme of education and education per child, i.e. the student (capital formula) on the basis of the number and type of students who are educated in the establishment and the corrective coefficient established for certain geographical areas, for certain groups, by levels and types of education. The economic price covers all current expenditure per child, i.e. the student, from all sources of funding, in accordance with the rules governing the budgetary system. The sources of funds are unchanged compared to the solutions so far. The most approximate new concept of the funding system is the financing of pre-school education and education. This model is proposed because the countries in the region that are EU members are implementing this funding model. According to the transitional provisions of the bill, funding by the head of the child and the student will be applied gradually, starting with school or work 2011/12. This system will apply from 2014/15 to all institutions. A year. Chapter XI of the Bill provides for infringements for the institution and responsible person, for the institution and responsible person, as well as for parents, or guardians of children and pupils. In Chapter XII of the Bill, certain operations of the AP have been entrusted. The new jobs themselves are entrusted to the Pedagogical Institute of Vojvodina, and they relate to national minorities and activities carried out in the languages of national minorities. Chapter XIII of the Law lays down the transitional arrangements and time limits for the application of individual institutes. Members of the National Educational Council, elected by the National Assembly until the entry into force of this law, will act as members of that council until the end of the election period. This advice will have changed jurisdiction, but will remain in the selected composition. The Council for Professional Education and Adult Education will appoint the Government within 60 days of the date of entry into force of this law. The newly appointed Council will carry out the tasks under its jurisdiction laid down by this law. Finally, the proposal introduces a newspaper for which the deadlines are set, so the adoption of this law by emergency procedure would provide legal assumptions that its solutions would begin to apply in the school year 2009/2010. A year. I thank you for your attention and invite everyone to vote for these laws because they are of great importance to our country. I'd only add if there were some ideologies here. I would rephrase that differently, and I would say that this is the definition of this country, the definition of citizens of the Republic of Serbia for European integration and for the European path of Serbia. That's where these two laws come from in the field of education and education.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-18-0.u24465	Minister Zarko Obradovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-18-0.u24466	Here's just a few words because it seems to me, for more than four hours and a few hours, we're talking about these two laws today, but in this first part, I still feel the need to say a few words. I would like to thank all of you, those who have participated so far, for the views they have made in the discussion regarding the law on education and education systems and the law on textbooks and teaching tools. Right away as a minister, I find any concern that this law has any other purpose than to improve the education and education system. Through the presentation of certain members of the majority people, fear can be felt whether there is enough national, in the presentation of minority members, whether there are enough conditions for respect and expression of their minority specialities. I say responsibly there are both, this is a law dedicated to the children of the Republic of Serbia, a law on the basic system of education and education of about 905,000 children in primary and secondary schools, about 80,000 future champions and all those generations that come later in this great system of ours. Our goal is really to create a system where children learn, what they learn to understand and know how to apply. I'm saying this by no chance, I don't want to answer at this point to any individual views, but trust me on some of those objections that have been put on our souls that aren't there, they haven't been in the law since 2003, or since 2004, and they haven't been in existence since 2006. What's being put on our souls is not enough, it's, it's just maybe in different places under this law. There, look closely at the goals and values, look at all the things about the education system, and then let's talk about content and how to improve it. I just want to say that you understand, the law is so well-conceived that in some parts it focuses more on the subject which is subject to consideration for the simple reason that some of the laws that apply to it are a decade and over, even two decades old. Why? Don't ask me, this 2009 is the 19th year of multi-party Serbia, so we've had enough time to change those laws so far. I've been a minister these 12 months and a dozen days, and here we are in the first year of our term, passing two by important laws – one that can be said to upgrade what was before, with a lot of new elements and one completely new. I want to tell you, that's why certain parts of the law seem more extensive than they are, because we wanted not to leave any space still empty about those laws. Of course, many other laws follow this. There's something else I'd like to tell you in this first part. Somehow, we resented the notion that the only and only minister was responsible for everything. I am not running away from it as Minister of Education of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, nor this government. I am responsible for what I do, but I want for the public, for all those people who work in education to say a few more words – we also have other institutions and bodies in the education system. We have the National Educational Council, we have institutions, we have a lot of actors who and how they affect the content and quality of education. They are extremely important and sometimes they are not seen, we will affirm them anyway, but, by this law, we will raise the quality of education and achieve the goals I mentioned, and avoid these mistakes that my colleague was talking about, if they are mistakes, and the SRS. Because the publisher, the three reviewers he chooses, their professional signature, is now known correctly, it goes to an expert opinion in the Bureau, from the National Educational Council, the minister signs. So when a few structures pass, and I'm talking about respecting the profession, respected colleagues, respecting the profession, because we really tried to get these laws to ask the profession what it means. This does not mean that everyone in the system has said what they think, because the system is very large, 103,000 people work in primary and secondary education and it is impossible in itself to ask and get an opinion at the same time, but therefore there are representatives, the assumption is that they speak for those they represent. Because as much as we conduct a public debate, there will always be someone who will say that it was not part of a public debate or challenge the representativeness of one who represents a particular institution, but I want to tell you that we tried to make a law that would make our education system better than it is, because we need it. As Minister, I must say, you can see that as part of an explanation for the adoption of this law, I was in a position to attend several international conferences that talk about the education and education system. In some countries, these issues that we are now discussing are considered issues that are outdated, which are skills, skills, skills, the content of the skills for this time that is coming, and yet there are African countries that do not have out of the way what we already have as a system. Our idea is to improve what's right and what's wrong with changing and offering new solutions. So I said, we offered a law that was aimed at raising quality, and we have, I've heard, a very large number of amendments and we've really opened up every amendment that promotes solutions in the law to accept and make the law better. Well said by one of the colleagues, education is a long process, and the children who are doing this now start to apply them become adult, so count for yourself, from age to age. It's only when someone becomes an adult who will understand what it means to get free textbooks from a country that gets it on September 1st of this year or ask if the Internet is connected to every school. I asked my colleague, French Minister Darkos, if there was an Internet in every school – he didn't know how to answer me. So he said yes, yes, yes, most probably. For us, the assumption that in France everything is connected to the Internet, well, they're technologically more developed than we are, and they are, but that doesn't mean that every school is equipped in the same way. It's the reality of every country, including ours. We want to improve the system, and in line with the financial opportunities to improve everything that's part of the money. I say once again, it's not all about money, money is very important, but this is content law. If the things that are set up here are applied in practice, we'll get the system. I am fully convinced, with all the criticism of that system, the system will give first results. Our problem might be that we haven't established the system in years before. We didn't just set up the system. We're only now adopting knowledge standards for eighth grade, respected colleagues. Standards of knowledge for eighth grade, so then it goes seventh, sixth, etc., classes and programs go, textbooks go. Don't ask me again why, but we're only adopting now. It's part of the life that we live in, and politically, and in every other way, but it's our goal to establish a system and know exactly what people do in the system and what their values are. But again, I agree with the opinions of one of my colleagues, whatever we do, if we don't solve the question of student and teacher relationships, teacher and teacher and what's going on in the classroom, we won't succeed. We had a very interesting consultation with experts from the World Bank and they said, experience is different, but unless you create a situation that you have a satisfied teacher, an orno to pass knowledge on to students, and children who are in the mood to go to school for learning, then there will be no results, and it's hard to know what's going on in that box. My colleague Đeric mentioned something, she mentioned a lot of things, but one of the things that I am potential as a minister, that's what I said in the National Educational Council, is to reduce the content of everything that our children teach us, to go to school convinced that they are going to learn something that will benefit them in life, not to experience as a problem and difficulty. To have a child aged six to seven years carry a bag that weighs 6.5 kg, to see what the subject's contents are from first to eighth grade compared to these standards of knowledge and to create a system of knowledge, where gradually with the child's age, with an increase in the level of his abilities, knowledge, competence, with a class, to acquire a new range of knowledge, and what he learns to apply. We are now creating citizens who need to provide Serbia with us to provide safe age. If we don't do it, then we miss. We're convinced that these things we do, we do for the best. If we're wrong somewhere, we're going to change the law, or we're going to accept the amendments, or we're going to change the law, because it's better to change it, make it better, than stick our heads in the sand, and pretend like everything's ideal, everything's great, just, well, something else is wrong. No, we want to simply improve this system and that's why we've offered these laws. But there will also be an afternoon to discuss individual solutions, when other fellow Members, MPs, will participate in the debate. Anyway, for this work so far, I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-18-0.u24467	In accordance with Article 85(5), we will also work after 1800 hours per item of the agenda at which we are at that time. Maybe we won't if we're done. I'm setting a break by 3:10 p.m. Excuse me. Make it exactly 15.20 hours, an hour. [[After break – 15.20]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, they are in accordance with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, until the opening of a joint principled search of the application for a word in writing, with a number of MPs, practically all MPs submitted. The word is made by the People's Messenger, Milisav Petronijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-18-0.u24469	Dear Presidents, Ministers, People's MPs, our colleague Miletic Mihajlovic, on behalf of the SPS-JS parliamentary group, made the position of our parliamentary group when it comes to the draft law on the foundations of the education and education system, and the proposal for a law on textbooks. I wouldn't take much of my time, given that our colleague very much stuck to the law on the foundation of the education system, I feel like a very important, significant law, the law on textbooks somehow stays in the shadows. The reason for my report is to dedicate a few minutes to that law. I can't take the impression without stressing one great seriousness, responsibility, the willingness of the minister to cross arguments with everyone when it comes to the law on the foundations of the education and education system, and not to point out that it is a serious approach, which deserves such a serious law. I am fully in agreement with my colleague Zlata Đeric, not the roof but the foundation. We all understand what that is about. I think if I were to be free, just in one sentence to say our point of view. The law is old by structure, and it's new by solutions. In that one sentence lies all the seriousness and responsibility of the ministry when it comes to this area. It doesn't touch the system, new, better solutions are offered. What's the seriousness? The seriousness is that we must not play the education system, depending on who is in power, because the education system is older than any party and any government. So, the system is not touched, but new solutions are offered, which aim to raise quality, introduce greater justice, efficiency, a very important issue of establishing standards, so everything becomes measurable. So much for that law. When it comes to the law on textbooks, I think it deserves a few sentences to be said about it. Mr. Minister, you, first of all, your ministry and government, when it comes to textbooks deserve at least two confessions. First, because you're finally putting order into this area and secondly, you're putting yourself on the stand, and I believe and I'm sure you'll succeed, providing free textbooks. I believe you will continue to do so until the end, that since September 1st, the first generation of champions will have free textbooks. When it comes to the introduction of order in this area, I will briefly remain on this topic as part of an important part of the educational-experienced system, but I cannot help but notice that this is an important and economic issue. This is the area where billions of dinars rotate. In addition, calculate yourself, if Serbia has close to a million primary and secondary school students, if so much is needed textbooks, textbook sets and other teaching tools, it is not difficult to get the figure spinning in the area. That is an additional reason why order needs to be introduced in this area. So far, we've had a situation in terms of which I would like to try to focus your attention on two questions. On the one hand, we had a public company that dealt with it, which they all marked as a monopolies, and we had a number of private publishers in an area where they didn't know the order. We've had a situation that's always the main topic in this area, the quality of textbooks, and there's always going to be a topic to consider. What was missing is standards on the quality of textbooks. We also had one situation that the approval of textbooks in private publishers created major problems. There's been a lot of misunderstandings, legal uncertainty, court proceedings, even if I don't talk any further. This is now an opportunity for this law to create a legal basis in the process of publishing textbooks, counting on the whole process, to introduce order, to ensure legal certainty, that all under equal conditions can do this job, by clear procedure, by clear standards, and what is also significant for this area, very precise and clear deadlines. The deadlines were also a stumbling block when it came to this area. We had a lot of examples when the school year started, we still don't know which textbook, or whether it went out or not. This area has been regulated by law since '93. The year and the minister's rules until 6th grade, and that was all. I'm going back to the opening sentence, you deserve a confession that you've committed, and I must say, a bold regulation of this area. It won't be easy. When you want to get into the essence of this kind of problem, I think it would be good to read from the reasoning of the proprietor's goal. He's saying everything. The aim of this law is to ensure, in conditions of competition, positive competition. With a clear procedure in place, the need to determine that the textbook needs to be written through the textbook's plan, preparation, approval and publication, elections and the start of a new circle – the quality control of the textbook. The whole procedure is actually very precise, detailedly elaborated and speaks about the essence of this law. So, he's setting up a procedure, with due respect for the prescribed standards, which is a new quality. First through definition – what is a textbook, what is a teaching tool, what is a textbook set, which is a language, which is a letter to do this, whether, and in that context, it provides an equal opportunity, prevents all those discriminations that are possible, etc. The aim is to raise the level of quality of textbooks and teaching tools through all of this, to ensure the diversity of their offer on the market, and by prescribing deadlines, once again I insist on this issue, to provide timely publishing of textbooks, which contributes to quality, improving educational and probationary work, and there is no dilemma there. Legal conditions are being created, the legal basis for these objectives to be achieved. When they were achieved, then we scored full when it came to textbooks. Conditions are being created for competition and equal rights are being provided for all. I'd just like to stick to some more detail, in addition to the procedure prescribed, there is a very important role in this part, if I may say so, the Supreme Body, the National Educational Council, through three important segments. It is the first that determines whether there are needs and what are needs for new textbooks, the one that determines the plan, and ultimately the one that proposes the Minister’s approval of textbooks. In addition, if we add professional representation through the Institute for the Promotion of Education and Education, it can be seen that there is actually a whole process in a very serious, studioy and professional way envisaged. I would especially like to point out that there are no more monopolies and no more of those who are lurking in this market. Everyone has the right to deal with publishing, whether it's a public publisher, whether it's private or not, but the same rules apply to all. Each of them must have a license. What's a license? I don't know what to make of it. A condition that you could do that job. Why would they run from it? If we meet the conditions, then we'll work, if we don't meet and we don't have to work. So, this detail here is detailed, and it's about issuing a license, and the possibility of withdrawing a license, but not as someone's personal whim, but it's very precisely listed in which cases it can happen. I think it's a new quality that also introduces order in the area. Once again, a very important question is the question of the quality of textbooks and that is one value. Since I said I wouldn't owe much, the other parts of the law have been processed very precisely, and that's what the approval procedure is, what the release procedure is like. The release procedure is accurate, even the low-cost one. This is the area where people get kidnapped, publishers work for those who make big profits. That makes sense. The state should also provide those who don't make that much money, and they are very much needed in the education system. It's perfectly regulated. Who chooses textbooks when he has to choose them, based on a catalogue that already exists in the Ministry. And what's also important is that the cycle begins at the beginning of a new cycle, which is to control the quality of standards carried out by the Training and Education Institute, and that's where the new cycle begins. So the law prescribed all these questions in one correct, fair way. No one's favored. In fact, here are the most favoured citizens, because through one regulated law they will come up with quality textbooks, on time and believe and more serious textbooks. I'll finish it, of course we'll give full support in the voting day and we'll vote for this bill. I call on all other MPs to look at not who the law was doing, who suggested it, but what it contains and whether it really meets the needs, criteria in this area, and I am sure it satisfies it. I call on all of us to vote for this law together.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-18-0.u24470	Since Mr. Miroslav Markicevic and Dragoljub Micunovic are not here on the list, the word is Mrs. Vesna Pesic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-18-0.u24471	Mr. Secretary of State and the honourable fellow Members of Parliament have already spoken on behalf of our Parliament club. It's a bright step. I just wanted to add a few more things to my own, so to speak, impressions on this law and pass some evaluations on to this law that has arrived by the NGO. I think it's always good to hear what NGOs think about this law, and this law falls under such laws that such an opinion is very important. First of all, I would say that the other MPs have probably received one letter from the Coalition for Inclusive Education and signed by five organizations, it's the Bridge Group, the Great Mali Inclusion Initiative, the Initiative for the Rights of Persons with Mental Disabilities, the Inclusive Movement and the Association of Students with Handicap. In this letter that I have, they have prayed that we do not allow anything to change the amendment when it comes to Articles 77, 97, 98, 99, because the law in general and in a quality way is governed by equalising rights for all children, the development of a democratic society by equating with European Union standards, and in fact enables full equality and inclusion of different types of children in the education system. These associations have greatly praised this law and in some ways tried to oblige us not to let anyone spoil what you did well. So I'm starting with compliments, that we've had such memos, which are very priced by efforts, not as it has been so far, that children with different handicaps are completely isolated, separate, but that this is an inclusive, means an integrated approach. I think that's how it should stay, and I agree with this memo. Another compliment that I would like to give to the law, it's best for me here to approach the process of education and education, because our school had one custom of that bug system, and we all went through that kind of teaching, we catch notes while the teacher talks, and then the next day when he asks us to lift a finger, we repeat a few sentences that he said, and he writes some grade, and we got through. However, this law is completely contrary to such a system, as it has been shown that in some modern times such a way of catching notes and reproduceing what the teacher said, with less or more understanding, that such a system did not give the possibility of really acquiring the right knowledge and the way to acquire self-knowledge. Our students have shown poor results in some competitions, not because they have no accumulated knowledge, we have all had these accumulated knowledge, but this approach actually now requires students to use their mind now, I use that term used in the law itself, so it requires that they use their brains, that they can analyze problems, that they can discuss the problem and demand the possibility of a problem strategic opinion that has not been present in our schools so far. I think it's very commendable, because it's actually more important today that we have an instrumentation on how to solve certain problems than to build up knowledge that we have less or more in our memory, what we've gone through, but we don't know how to think about problems, and today the modern world is just looking for a way of education that allows us to solve problems and we know how to think about problems, to know where to get informed, where to find the facts, not to teach them by heart, so how much we have left, and how much to take out of our heads and not to apply it afterwards. I think that shift in this law is quite visible. This applies not only in the way of using knowledge, but also in another educational part. I see there have been some criticism, however, I think as far as value orientations are concerned, they are very good in my opinion. Let's say here that you have even Article 4 paragraph 1 point 15), where you say, "Development and respect for racial, national, cultural, language, religious, gender, gender and adult equality, tolerance, non-discrimination (I don't think anyone said there's any idea of what non-discrimination means to us, I think it's excessive, of course we all know what non-discrimination means) and respect for diversity. '' Such a system of values, which is mentioned in many places, I think is very good, that it is very modern and that, given our society that has been through major, difficult situations of war, national hatred, and even today we are exposed to this by individual organisations, that this school system of values for primary and secondary schools is extremely important and I think it should also contribute to the improvement of our entire society, if this system of values is accepted. Maybe, say, when you say, tolerance to diversity, maybe it's a little vague, because it can be that diversity and something you shouldn't be tolerated about, say, when you're using alcohol or drugs, that's diversity, maybe it's a little vague. I'm going to point out that in the law, and in other places there are some misunderstandings that are not precise enough, but basically I think that the system of values that is proposed here is very good, that this valuable component is expressed and especially this new system of approach to the acquisition of knowledge, the use of knowledge and the resolution of problems, I think these are the biggest contributions of this law. I don't know whose credit it was specifically, but I think the whole crew probably had a part in it. Of course, I might show a little bit that there are some inaccuracies in the law itself. For example, when you look at Article 2, says – the education and education system includes preschool education, primary and secondary education and education, is an integral part of the overall learning process throughout the life of all citizens. We have suggested that this should be thrown out because this education system cannot be part of this process, but the learning process should be part of the education system, because it seems to me that there is an inversion made that doesn't sound very logical. Then there are some terms, let's say, where it's said in one place - entrepreneurship, whether it's entrepreneurship or entrepreneurship, because it's about children. Entrepreneurship is some kind of profession, which could hardly be used there, and I don't know if it's inaccuracy or if someone wanted to say something about it, and it's not clear enough. So, let's say, career-making. Again, I don't understand what it means to run a career of someone who's in high school or elementary school, but there's something now that's present in modern education, that kids who are in high school actually create their own interesting biography because they're big competitions for colleges, and then go to Africa or come to Serbia, so they volunteer, so their biography seems much more interesting because they develop their personality through these various possibilities and spread their personality, so they get a greater possibility of enrolment, let's say, to elite colleges. I don't think that was the case. So there are some inaccuracies that should be solved anyway. So, in addition to these key good things, it's likely that we should do one editorial that might be a little bit stricter, that this termology be brought into line and that some illogicalness or maybe it's not illogical, maybe it's just unhinged, that it's being removed, because it would be a shame that in one of these things, basically very good, the law, there's some kind of misunderstanding, that someone's wondering what that even means. I'd like to point out a few objections that have been sent to me again, and I'd like to point out the composition of the National Educational Council, which is 43 members. However, the observation is that this composition of the National Council may not be the most ideal. For example, when it comes to national minorities, given that national minorities have 15 national councils, they have the right to have only one representative of 43. It could even be considered to be some kind of marginalisation of the influence of national minorities in such a single body because there are 3-4 teachers, say, four teachers of Belgrade or three, I can't right now, that you don't exactly take my word for it, say, from Belgrade University, and from Nis, a lot of university teachers. I don't know why they'd pile up, and these pretty big and very widespread different groups only have one representative, especially when it comes to minority communities. I think a minority like that would be found in a 43 group to be practically marginalized and not be able to achieve what he is in such a council at all. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that it exists in the language, it also refers to national minorities, it says -- educational and probationary work is predicted to be achieved in Serbian. All right, also, when it comes to national minorities, the educational-experienced process takes place in the native language, of course, it's all right, bilingually or in Serbian, and then it stands kind of stuck and says, in accordance with special law. If we already have one of these comprehensive laws, I don't know what kind of law it is now, when it's all listed in Serbian, bilingual. What's a special law to do? It leaves some kind of vagueness and pours a little bit of mistrust. What kind of a special law that needs to be added here, so I'm asking it more as a question, because I don't even know what it was supposed to be, that there's some kind of special law in the first place. Another thing I'd like to draw attention to, is that a kind of discrimination written about a lot in the press, which is religious discrimination, is that if it is introduced into the law on religious communities, if discrimination is introduced, then this discrimination starts to spread according to all possible laws, and now we also have two types of discrimination in this law. When it comes to going back to the National Educational Council again, you have been suggested here to be from the ranks of religious communities, but one must be from the Serbian Orthodox Church. So, the Serbian Orthodox Church submits a list, and then one person from that church is proposed for advice. However, the traditional churches and religious communities also appear. I don't know why there must be one such misunderstanding in Serbia when it comes to it, so these traditional religious communities and churches also have the right to propose one representative, but 170 other religious communities have no right at all to have any representatives in this National Educational Council. I have to explain that there is a basic misunderstanding in our society – what Protestantism is. Protestantism was created by every individual, and that is what the idea of modern society and the idea of human rights is based on, that every man has the right to interpret the Bible. This is why there is not one church in the Protestant church, but each group has the right to establish its congregation, its church about its own interpretation. So the Bible is no longer a holy letter, but is subject to interpretation, and hence comes freedom of mind, and freedom of conscience and other human rights and freedoms that we now call constitutional rights. Being able to interpret the Bible there does not mean that it is cults, since it is necessary to distinguish cults from normal congregationes that interpret the Bible on their own. All these organizations, which exist in our country, have been expelled and have no representative at all. Such discrimination against small religious communities unfortunately continues in this law. Why was it necessary, why did it have to move on, why didn't you understand? I don't know who's imposing it, and how long this kind of expansion of this fundamental discrimination will last from one law, which is being transferred to this law, which is usually very successful in many things. Now I wanted to draw attention to Article 14(4).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-18-0.u24472	Mrs. Pesic, time's up, you finish your thought.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-18-0.u24473	Since time has elapsed, just to say that I think, here, even when it comes to the 19th century tradition, when it comes to the merger of national identity, identity and national identity, this is too connected to some kind of people in terms of ethnicity, and it's okay to be Serbian and these other ethnic identities, but we have to accept a civil approach, where it's actually talking about patriotism and belonging to a particular state.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-18-0.u24474	Your time is up. There is a word from MP Milan Stanimirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-18-0.u24475	Dear Madam President, honourable ministers, state secretaries, respected fellow MPs, we have two draft laws before us – Proposal for a law on the foundations of the education and education system and a proposal for a law on textbooks. From the discussion of authorised representatives of parliamentary groups, we have seen in principle that these two laws do not have any important, essential remarks and that they are nevertheless acceptable to those who have criticised them. An old Indian philosopher in the fifth century B.C. said that knowledge was a true organ of vision, not eyes. I'm afraid a lot of people haven't figured that out before today, like they haven't seen what he saw in the fifth century before the New Age. I am afraid that the political elite in this country all these years, without exception to anyone, was not fully prepared to enter into the root reforms of a yet outdated system, whose reforms and modernisation are a necessary condition for the development of a complete society. Why is that? This is because some theorists say it takes three years to adapt to the education system, perhaps even 12 years to see the first results. We really didn't see any political furniture that was in power that was willing to invest in something that would only show results in 15 years. I would like to believe that these laws are also one call to something that will give results in the near future and that in about 10-15 years we will be proud of what we have all done together to try to transform and reform education in Serbia. The reality is cruel, and we heard it from the minister, or 1,350,000 under-educated, 350,000 illiterate, 60% functionally illiterate, when people read the paragraph and do not know that they reproduce what they read, 40% to 50%, as I heard the minister say children who are functionally illiterate. The quality of education is therefore bad. It's also about the Pisa test, about the bad results, about how that Pisa test doesn't fit our education system. I had the opportunity to participate in a three-year programme under a programme to reduce poverty, organised by the UNDP and the Belgrade Political Extraordinary Fund, and visit some countries. I can see it's not that great anywhere. We are often inclined to criticise ourselves, and in some areas we have good results, in some areas we have bad results. The fight against poverty means, above all, the fight for education, which will allow for new employment and the future for our generations to come. For example, in Portugal, I asked their ministry how they were satisfied with the results of their students on the Pisa tests. And they complained that these tests didn't match their education system, because the results that their students showed on those tests were bad. Unfortunately, we know that everyone who has children, in the past 20 or 30 years, has been growing up to some generations that in many things know less than their parents. We know what we've been through, through sanctions, poverty, poverty, isolation, wars, etc., it's been a lot of the result, but our unwillingness to be more serious about education. The condition for economic prosperity and leaving behind is primarily one social pact between trade unions, employers and governments in many countries, but the basis for getting out of the economic crisis is to invest in education, knowledge and thus create a future for all. Long mentioned and often mentioned Irish wonders based on these two elements, on these two postulates, on this social pact, but also on investing in education. Recently, I was also speaking here in the Assembly that we have 150 and some high-school machinery schools that according to their programs are quite outdated and that produce, say, personnel that no one needs. I've compared that now, like when we say that we have a great Electronic Nis and they're going to produce black and white televisions, which are of excellent quality, they have a guarantee and it's all great, except nobody needs them. So we need to create an education system that will prepare our people, our children so that they can find work tomorrow, that employers are needed and that they can immediately find a job so that they can start families, etc. Says one university professor that reforms are like moving cemeteries – little support from within. It's about the situation in education. We are all inclined to say that it is necessary to modernise the state and that reforms are needed – but don't really change from me. We have both at universities, both in high schools and primary schools a lot of resistance to changing something that has proved to be dysfunctional and inefficient. I really think that we need to reach a consensus about these changes being necessary, so that we can improve our society. If we want to know which countries are the worst economically, and in the EU, but also outside the EU, in the whole world, then look at those who have the worst education system and that's about equality. Research among teenagers, not only in our country, shows that books are read in a negligible percentage, a book in the shortened editions that pass on the Internet. If it weren't for Harry Potter and the Lord of the Rings, many would not have read a single book and have no idea who Tom Sawyer was or Huckleberry Finn. They don't even read the papers and say their texts are long and boring – they read the tabloids. We had this Information Act, which is to read tabloids and newspapers that are distributed free of charge. They spend a lot of time playing games on Facebook-type social networks. At the appropriate celebrations, all of us who are involved in politics and many others, those who are in education, claim that education should not be treated as a cost, but as an investment in the future. What kind of investors are we talking about is enough data from the minister that more than 96% of the funds go to education workers' salaries and everything else just over 3.5%. That way you can't invest in the future. Paraphrasing Gramshi, who said about culture that she was too important to be left to herself, left to culture alone, could be said the same thing about education. Education is too important to be left to education and the competent ministry alone. As the topic of reform must be imposed as a topic in society, if we want a modern, European, democratic, more education and employment in Serbia, the theme of the education system and raising the educational level of the population must be put into the public eye, but not as something that is in the service of certain ideologies and policies, but rather something that is, above all, in the function of developing the entire community, which will all contribute to the well-being of all, and possible success being the success of all. The impact of education is immeasurable in creating the economic prosperity of our society. This influence is immeasurable in creating a cultural model of our community's life. Some traps need to be avoided. As someone who belongs to a social-democracy party, I have to say that neoliberal ideology tends to bring all social development down to the economic rationality that I was talking about in this first part of the exposure, bringing individuals down to economic success addicts. If the education system is brought down in the future to the production of those who will be prepared and trained only to have, it means the accumulation of money, profits, goods, etc., and not to the essence, which means the development of human and intellectual capacities and powers, then it will not hit the goal. This should be considered in the upcoming reforms of education. So all together we need to clearly determine what is the current education, or what is what our community really does and what is what, in our opinion, is ideal education, or what we should do in this field in the future. This should be a constant topic and a constant public debate throughout Serbia. This was also about tradition. It was about tradition in the context that this law doesn't care enough about tradition. One man can't live without memory, so the people can't live without tradition. As a man cannot live from memory, nor can the people live by tradition. It's not a tradition to worship ashes. It's to burn fire. We today and in education according to time, with the 21st century, should create a tradition in education that will not be ashamed of our descendants and will be the foundation of a strong and stable Serbia. It's one of the fields where true patriotism is shown. While I have already mentioned the creation of a cultural model, which unfortunately largely create tabloids, commercial television, but also inadequate education system, I must also call on the Public Service to return its educational programme to the level that he had at the time of our colleagues, Žarko Korać, who spoke here today, and Aleksandre Jankovic. In order to design a congregation chronicle that would explain to citizens what benefits the legislative framework we bring them, and this one in the area of education is more useful than the "What the hell are you doing" chronicle, with an emphasis on "br". Otherwise, there's plenty of "bre" in the tabloids and commercial TVs. Finally, personal impression, because I had the opportunity to view my three children from the last century, 88, 90 and 91 years, as guinea pigs of a failed education system, dissatisfied professors and transition society, which has become a permanent patient state for two decades. I am convinced that this proposal for a law on education and education, and a proposal for a law on textbooks and future laws that we adopt in the field of education, will provide the foundations of successful education reform, so that my experience with a fourth child born in this century, in 2005, is much better, for my personal satisfaction, for the satisfaction of thousands of parents and children in the future and for the satisfaction of our entire community. With faith in the successful reform of education, the ZES and DS parliamentary groups will support the proposals of these laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-18-0.u24476	Mrs. Milica Vojic-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-18-0.u24477	Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, for the MPs of the DSS this set of laws or these two laws in the field of education, and above all on the foundations of the education and education system, and how important and fundamental laws are. Despite working at a 40-degree MP's club, despite the fact that we had very little time to work, because you put 24 very important laws at a session that would take place within a few days, despite many difficulties, the minister witnessed a short stay when he introduced the law to us in the parliamentary group, as it seemed, we and how well and quality we worked on this law and made 52 amendments that I think are certainly worth at least looking at. This means that the DSS has based its approach on exactly these principles that I have said, quality and to the end honestly. On the other hand, the ruling majority pretend that this law is important to her, but it places it at a time when Saturday, 40 degrees, people are in the pool, do not convince me that Serbian citizens are not and are interested in this law. Every single one of us is concerned about this law, because we have children, we perfect ourselves, we want to do something. So, in the weather. There is no transmission, because as last night was an important rerun by Tur de France, a rerun of the volleyball game and a cartoon by the way, Serbia's national interest today was declared the departure of Duško Duuška from Albuquerque, and therefore the citizens will be able to see it, but they will not be able to see this debate, possibly if they are about three watching television tonight, they will be able to see it. It's true how you treat what's called a system of education and education in this country. Because we believe that and how important the law is, we, above all, have seen this law on the basis of the education and education system, we DSS MPs, and each of us will talk from a different perspective. What I'm trying to say first is that the structure of this law is not new. It is the structure of the 2003 law, something in-innovated, something consistent with the laws passed in the meantime, primarily the Constitution, the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination and similar laws. I must say that there are no MPs in this hall, nor a citizen in the country of Serbia, who would be against his child learning in a school without discrimination, in a school without violence, that talented and gifted children are not doing perfectly well, that children with disabilities are not involved in a regular system. I just don't think there's one of us and that's what's good. I'd like to take a closer look at this area regarding the protection of the rights of the child, which is here for the first time, and I'd like that, because I don't think it's just these things that I listed, this protection of the rights of the child, I'd like to talk a little bit about the fund of class, the burden of children, how they work and spend at school. Since they are not quality knowledge from individual subjects, they also go to special teachers that we pay privately, to schools of various languages and the like. Their working hours are 20 hours minimum. So let's look at the programs a little bit, and we'll talk more about violence from the program. So, I'd like all that stuff if we could talk a little bit, but we can't. The ruling majority made five hours, so we can put it all in those five hours, so nothing. I'd like to take my turn. Violence, you put him here in this law and I think it's a great thing. I really think it's one of the biggest problems of today's schools, and it's apostrophe of all, and teachers, and parents and students. It is very important that this topic is finally opened. What is and how important, none of you think like this. We have programs, we have a school system that doesn't meet the needs of children, or parents, or teachers. Each of them has its own passive, silent resistance to that system. One of these forms is neglecting school. Students don't want to learn, they're having a bad time. It's a passive violence. We will move from passive violence to active violence very quickly. The students have crossed over. According to a 2006 UNICEF survey, one third of the students experienced some form of violence from teachers, whether it was an insult, whether it was a threat, a blow. Two-thirds of the students experienced peer violence, and student violence against teachers was increased. We've been witnessing some of these activities, if I may say so, these past few months. I mean, it's a good thing you put the story on and opened up the story of violence in schools, but it seems to me that, apart from being declared that there's no violence in our schools, there's no qualitative movement, there's no measure, there's no activity, there's nothing other than definition, kind, what's forbidden? What is particularly surprising to me is that in one attitude you say: "The minister prescribes and closer conditions on ways to identify non-baleous forms of child abuse by the employee during rest, care and recreation and other forms of educational work." I would simply like someone to explain to me what this means – how the minister will prescribe non-verbal forms of abuse. By the way, let me ask – what happens to the certificates, because we had one period of training of professional associates and teachers who work in schools to fight violence, one intervention team, one program called "Krin", some of our people who participated in that program that they don't have certificates today, and we have people who might be able to do that. Then, let's go to the story of banning discrimination. Clearly, the law is in line with the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination. That's good. You have repeated what is set out in this law in Article 44, the definition of discrimination, but we still live in schools where children, Roma above all, children with disabilities, poor children, are discriminated against. I'd like to see what we're gonna do. That's what I'm interested in, applying this law at school. I'm afraid of it. Don't understand if I'm against what you said, I'd just like to see what's behind it. What I still want to say, and I have to say, because I'm coming from Valjev, there's Petnica. Children who are talented and endowed with this law, and according to previous laws, have the right to school according to their needs in the regular system, special departments, in special schools, in accordance with these and special laws. We had a story a few weeks ago about children from elementary schools going to Petnica, I don't need to tell you what kind of institute Petnica is, they can't go to that school since the Ministry doesn't have the resources to pay them. He knows that you tried to meet it, but I don't know whether it's paid or not. My second question is – how will you motivate teachers to work with talented students? In a regular school, he has average, underaverage, those who have various other problems and those who are talented. What are you going to motivate them to do, and how are we going to educate teachers to do all this? My comment in the end is that the story I don't see at all in the law, I really don't see it, it seems we have all new expressions, old expressions, the only expressions that are forbidden, which are patriotism, Serbia and tradition.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-18-0.u24478	MP Srdjan Milivojevic has his word. Here you go, Mr. Milivoevich.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-18-0.u24479	Dear Madam President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary and People of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Citizens of Serbia, today when we are discussing this law, we are actually opening a very important topic that can be formulated through the question – what kind of society do we want to live in? Or perhaps it is much better to rephrase that question and ask it – what kind of individuals we are, what kind of people we are raising, who are going to make this society the next day. I must tell you, Mr. Minister, you've done an excellent job with this bill. I really must give you my congratulations, because this law is a European law, but also a law that respects Serbian tradition very much, a law that respects the state of Serbia very much. Our children will not be expelled from Ivo Andric or Meša Selimovic in the future, so I don't know who from Malaysia or what other countries of the world. Our children will continue to study Serbian history, Serbian geography, will study the literature written by Serbian writers, writers living in this country, citizens of Serbia, and, of course, will study the contemporary fluids of civilization and what the world carries with it. When we talk about the education system at all, it is very important to consider education not as a political topic and not as a topic where someone wants to say that the law on the basics of education is a law that someone has ordered us to pass. Does anyone in this country really think that someone in Brussels, The Hague, Washington, New York, Moscow is waking up with an idea - what kind of law are we going to serve these Serbs today? Please, that goes beyond the imagination of the freest people. We do not pass European laws because someone is making us or forcing us to. We are passing laws like this because 130 MPs sitting in this hall express the majority will of Serbian citizens to pass such laws. We make these laws as a result of our efforts and desires not to enter Europe, but to be part of a modern civilized world. If we look at human history, the history of human civilization, look at the ancient Greeks, the ancient Greeks despised the culture and customs of the people in the environment, but did not despise their knowledge and their education. But they failed because one minute they didn't adapt to the modern-day fluids of civilization. The Romans, a very old people, the Roman Empire lasted if we were to observe the Western and Eastern Roman Empire for a very long time, but that people also failed because they did not adapt to certain principles declared. The graves of human civilization are filled with failed and extinct peoples, who may have contributed more to the history of that civilization than the Serb people. Who today remembers the Incas, the Aztecs, the Maya and many others, the Babylonians, and some other peoples? Everyone remembers the Resistance, Mr. Krasic. Who today remembers these nations, and who today even mentions these peoples, and why did these nations fail? Because they did not accept certain programming principles that came from around the world, they lost step with education and receiving new knowledge and new experiences. This is why this is a very important law, because if we look at knowledge as a sum of wisdom and experience, sometimes it was said that knowledge killed wisdom, because sometimes people were first wise, then a combination of wisdom and experience came into knowledge and then a man who had knowledge and education could mate people who had wisdom or intelligence to recognize problems. On the other hand, we have people who say that information is killing knowledge today. However, it is very important for me to know how our children will be educated, and it is very important for me to know that our children will gain their knowledge according to modern civilizations. Mr. Krasic, I don't have children yet, but I will be very happy the next day when my children ask me – who has passed such a good law, let me say – I. Thank God you don't learn by Krasic's law, because you would sit in the rocks, but learn by the law passed by Mr. Zarko Obradovic, so sit behind the computer and discuss modern civilization achievements, like your peers everywhere in the world. There's obviously a lot of heat in this room, and apparently the heat is causing a camp with some. I have two ears and one mouth, which means I have to talk twice as much as I hear, so I'm gonna bring my exposure to an end. For those who don't like this law and who earn persistently from my left, there is in Jagodina, there is no Dragan Markovic Palma, a very beautiful institution that he opened, not the Zoo, but the Museum of wax figures, and I think there will be places in the wax museum for many who oppose modern civilizational fluids. Then they will be able to view the congregation on the postcard and to serve for education to children on a trip to Jagodin, but I am sure that this law that we are making today will serve as an example to many in this country as laws should be passed. That this law will be another guideline towards Europe, towards civilization, forward. That this law is another flame in the European lighthouse that was set on fire in this country by Dr Zoran Djindjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-18-0.u24480	Mr. Krasic, I'd like to ask you not to disturb the speakers as they speak, especially inappropriate questions and findings. You probably feel offended, but I'm seeing it as part of the necessary defense that the speaker had to have, because in a very inappropriate way you interrupted him while he was talking. There's no basis for replication. Mrs. Vojić-Markovic. No, he didn't say who was talking. He said who was throwing. It is clear to everyone that nothing was relevant to you, Mrs. Vojić-Markovic. (Srdjan Milivojevic: I really didn't mean you, Mrs Vojic-Markovic. I give my word to MP Sashi Maksimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-18-0.u24481	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I will define my presentation more towards the proposal for a law on textbooks and other teaching tools, because I view it as a basis for improving the quality of education in Serbia. We have before us a bill that should regulate the area of publishing textbooks, raise quality and prevent monopoly in the field of publishing textbooks. Like I said, you should. This law should create the same conditions for the issue of textbooks for all publishers, which means equating a state publisher, i.e. the Institute for the Publishing of textbooks and teaching and private issuers, in the conditions of competition. However, in this law there are many inconsistencies, inaccuracy, vagueness, and rich and bad. The facts are this: the field of production of textbooks in Serbia is currently completely messy, we can even say chaotic. There are no defined clear procedures, and in force is still an old law from, as you know, 1993, with all amendments and additions to the 2006 law. Meanwhile, the ministry has conducted a tour or experiment, as you will, which has also had its problems, and of course, with these problems have also come the consequences. The experiment so far has not shown that so far demonopolization has brought some more important quality textbooks, except for the coloring of textbooks, nicer colors, better quality presses, which is a shift towards better, but in any case it's not enough. If we compare the results of comparative analysis of old and new textbooks, as regards the content and way of presenting materials in textbooks, we face the fact that some old mistakes have been repeated in new alternative editions, but that many new errors have been made in the new editions of textbooks. The fact is that a large number of textbooks from which students in Serbia learn have aged, written in a language that is not suitable for the age of which it is intended and burdened with a bunch of incomprehensible terms, but also cardinal inadmissible errors, such as mathematics for the second grade of primary school. Since he's a little funny, I'll read him to the MPs and remind Mr. Secretary, I assume he already knows a lesson like that. The lesson is called half and a quarter. The task is like this – Jova gives Aci a quarter of his candy, Aca tells him it's cici and wants at least half of his candy. The question is - I remind you, it's a math textbook - what do you think of Aca? This is a complete example of a pointless task and shows the inconclusiveness of the publisher who published such a textbook, but to God and the Ministry who failed to return, not approve, or whatever you want. This is not all a big surprise given, Mr. Minister, that your assistants write textbooks for Serbian language, textbooks for French, of course for the publisher of the state, or for the Department of Teachers and Teachers, so we come to the situation that the list of approved textbooks appears after the textbooks have been printed without evaluation and approval, and largely bought by parents with a promise from the Ministry that everything will be fine and that the textbooks will be approved. Now what? Now private publishers are suing the state, and parents who bought the books of individual publishers, mostly on credit and on checks, can now put these books in the trash, or possibly have thrown them so far. The problem in our textbooks is archaisms, foreign words and professional terms that are not explained, so they just confuse children. There is no connection between expertise and school and life experiences that children have. The contents are not exposed in such a way as to give the child the opportunity to work on their own, but because of this someone brilliantly invented, of course, mandatory work notebooks, which parents have to pay for, and that teachers do as little work as possible. Children, as you know, learn lessons by heart, from bad textbooks, from textbooks that are not suitable for their age, old age. They fill out their workbooks in class, and, of course, they don't learn anything. By the way, they have no great will nor to learn. What scares me is that this bill will make the situation worse on one side. It is true that the process of approving textbooks will be better arranged, but on the other hand, there is the possibility that we can get a clean commercialisation of the market to textbooks, while quality is suppressed in another way. Quantity does not necessarily mean quality, it is clear to you, especially if the Ministry remains as inert with the procedures as it has been so far. I sincerely hope you change that, Mr. Minister. You've been a minister long enough, I think it's time for the Ministry to start working properly. In addition to my thinking are the current procedures of the Ministry, but also the draft law on textbooks and other teaching means that are in front of MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. We go like this, by some of the most important members, Article 15. The proposal for a law which states that the publisher submits a request to the Ministry for the authorisation of textbooks within 60 days of the date of adoption of the new curriculum. Now I ask you, what is the quality of the textbook to be written, that is, to be done in 60 days, especially what the publisher must also submit in three copies, with graphic, visual and technical textbook manuscripts? Elaborate, by the way, the textbook manuscript publisher, contains, as you normally see in Article 13. The draft law, at least three individual reviews, a joint final assessment of the peer review committee on the consistency of texts and visual content of textbook manuscripts with the curricula and the programme or the viewing programme, established standard of quality of textbooks, educational-experienced work objectives and the developmental level of students of a given age, as well as an assessment of the language order of the text, the decision of the competent authority of the publisher on the adoption of manuscripts. And then the Committee on Religious Training if it's religious textbooks or textbooks in the language of a national minority. In addition, this must contain the opinion of the National Minority Council and not read any further. And all in 60 days, Mr. Minister. Of course, with all the writing of that textbook. There's no talk about the quality of the textbooks, because it's impossible to do all that in such a short time. You'll change that! Okay. The SNS also submitted an amendment even to Article 15, which extends to a period of 90 days. I think we should even cancel that time limit of any kind, whether 60 or 90 days, but knowing the functioning of this government, if you're looking to delete a member, it's usually rejected without any more reason. The next problem of this bill is that the law does not address the question of calling competitions or public calls, or any other way of notifying publishers and the general public for publishing all textbooks, so that it is not known whether the competition is practically constantly open, it is not available and how will the wider public and publishers be informed? Whether via SMS, whether it's a Pony express or otherwise. The draft law was adopted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia in order to put it into assembly procedure by emergency procedure, with the claim that the adoption of this law by emergency procedure introduces legal certainty for all publishers that textbook manuscripts are approved for use under the same conditions – by prescribing standards, procedures and deadlines in the process of approving textbooks, i.e. preventing adverse consequences (now I read what is written in the reasoning of the law) by the authorities and organisations, and that the approval of textbooks is linked to the school year. Given the fact that a new primary school class class education programme has been adopted, it is necessary to provide legal assumptions for the application of this law and regulations adopted on the basis of it before the start of the next school 2010/2011. A year. It's nonsense, Mr. Minister. Why? Highlighting the fact that the urgency of the procedure for the adoption of this law is linked to the school year, and given that a new teaching programme for the seventh grade of primary school has been adopted, it is not appropriate at all. The procedure for approving textbooks should be implemented according to existing rules. You're aware of that. It is clear from the final and transitional provisions of this proposal that sublegal acts implementing this law will be adopted within six months of the date of entry into force of this law and that publishers are obliged to comply with their operations with the provisions of this law within one year of the date of entry into force of this law. So it's gonna be hard on the new program, at least for seventh grade. There was also a replacement of thesis in the justification for the adoption of the law by an emergency procedure. It is stated that the approval of textbooks issued by private publishers was carried out without prescribed standards. Mr. Minister, what standards have these textbooks been published so far? Now, come on for private publishers as much as possible, but by what standards did the Department of Book publishing issue if they weren't standards? Finally, the aim of the law should not be to prevent harmful consequences for bodies and organisations, as stated in the reasons for the adoption of an emergency procedure, but to create quality textbooks. That's where you probably agree. In any case, the number of publishers is not a point to start with in solving the problem of production of textbooks, must first create a general policy of publishing, raising the quality of textbooks. The fact is that mostly rich countries, where there are so-called. The developed market, the printing of textbooks can be left to market mechanisms. Serbia is unfortunately a poor country that has a desire, has an obligation to implement the principle of quality education in practice for all, however, in order to implement this, solutions that will encourage the quality of textbooks must be carefully chosen, while at the same time taking care of the social aspect. So far, it is a public secret, unfortunately, to debate and similar things affect the definition of school for textbooks, and I fear that this practice will become regular with the adoption of such a law. Mr. Minister, I hope my fellow MPs don't mind me taking the opportunity to commend one member of the law in addition to all the criticisms. It was a Article 3rd paragraph of Law, which says, "The textbook is printed in Serbian, with a Cyrillic letter." Although the constitution unequivocally confirms the Cyrillic as an official letter in the Republic of Serbia, we have witnessed that the use of Latina and the unfortunate Americanisation of Serbian language are losing, slowly but surely, national identity, so it is commendable that the legislator remembered to introduce this article into the law. On the other hand, Minister Obradovic, in an interview, you will remember better, Mr Minister, in which you said: the predicate of the law on textbooks and other teaching tools was written by publishers, representatives of the Institute and representatives of the publishing association. Is that right? Mr. Minister, it is inadmissible that the law is written by those to whom the law applies, whether from a state, private company or a natural person. What exactly would the legal order of this state be like if everyone wrote the law the way it suits him and tied to himself? For all the reasons so far listed, SNS MPs cannot and will not vote in favour of the proposal for a bill on the basis of an education and education system, nor on a proposal for a law on textbooks and other educational means.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-18-0.u24482	Mr. Zoran Krasic answered the question. You're advertising the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-18-0.u24483	Since he's a rigorous Rules of Procedure, I've applied, but you don't notice me. I signed up for the Rules of Procedure. I used to use Article 27, when I thought your failures to conduct the National Assembly session were the result of disagreements, disagreements on the Rules of Procedure, etc., and now I am absolutely certain that it was that much more serious injury from Article 104. The Rules of Procedure, which calls into question the dignity of MPs and the National Assembly. You gave yourself the right earlier to interpret what I said based on someone interpreting something. That's where you demonstrated first that you didn't hear, and earlier on, it's known that you didn't notice very well when you pushed me out of a place where I could sit, but it doesn't matter. You know, Mrs Djukić-Dejanovic, when an MP, however much laik is, because he doesn't have to be an expert on an area, when he lists something he doesn't have or swears to something he doesn't have, then probably because of the reliability, truthfulness and security of those words and those messages that are directed towards voters, probably there's no interference with how many there are or jumps through the system, which is what the Resistance is known to do, so that no harm is even any provocation, so perhaps before I see perhaps one, two or three MPs who have been involved in the adoption of this law and amendments to this law since 2003.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-18-0.u24484	Mr. Krasic, the fact is that you've disturbed the speaker, Mr. Milivojevic, and the fact is that it was my duty to respond. My reaction was also consistent with the content of what you said in the distraction, and with your behavior. So it wasn't right to comment on how many children Mr. Milivojevic had, it really wasn't right. You are in the form of questions, in any case, throwing away while the MP is speaking is not allowed and I am obliged to take care of the order and I have only warned you not to do so, although I should have applied the provisions of our Rules of Procedure which involve punishment. The word is by MP Goran Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-18-0.u24485	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, Mr Minister, today, in the framework of a set of proposed laws, we are discussing two very important and delicate laws, and these are the draft laws on the foundation of the education and education system and the proposal for a law on textbooks and other teaching tools. The importance of the SRS parliamentary group attaching to these laws can be seen from the fact that we proposed some 84 amendments to both laws, 67 were to the first, and 17 to the second law. The aim of these amendments is to amend certain provisions of these proposals, however, as a debate is envisaged today in principle, and not in particular, I will try in a certain way to rely on an exhibition previously given by my distinguished colleague and authorised representative of the SRS, Nikola Savic, and to present to the citizens the basic views of our parliamentary group on these two laws. In the area of education, as well as in any other human activity, there are certain legalitys, i.e. the progressive movement carried out and passed from one generation to another, so in order to get a picture of where we are today in this fundamental area of human activity, we need to go back a little bit and look at all the circumstances that have affected our educational-experienced system. So I'm going to briefly give one chronology of what's going on in these areas of our education and education, and then in the second part, I'm going to make basic remarks about this bill. Namely, when it comes to organised schooling in Serbia, it can be said that its origins date back to the first half of the 19th century and the first written traces suggest that at the beginning of the 19th century Serbia had 40 schools with a total of 1,500 students and until the seventh decade of 19th century only male children were educated in these areas, and the first elementary school for women was founded only in 1864. At that time the focus of teaching was exclusively on mastering the skills of reading, and everything was based on the work of memory, by the way the teacher spoke loudly, and the students repeated after him and thus were learning and remembering. You see, it's kind of the first publicly declared goal of education and education in these areas, mastering reading skills, and later writing. The goal was represented sometime until the Berlin Congress in 1878, after which Serbia became an independent state and gained the right to manage its own activities, thus both education and education in its territory. At the time, there was no first ministry. As we know, Dositej Obradovic became the first minister of education and repeatedly urged the Serb youth to sign up and finish school because he will benefit greatly from it later. As we know, in 1903 there was a May coup when the Obrenovic dynasty replaced the Karadjordjevic dynasty. At the time, there was a tendency to transfer to Serbia positive school experiences from some countries, notably France and Tsar Russia, which were our friendly countries at the time, and since a parliamentary monarchy was established, there were also material preconditions for raising new school facilities and opening new schools and other accompanying institutions. Furthermore, the period between the two world wars marked the creation of the Kingdom of SHS, later the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, and during that period for education are very important for two years: it is 1929 and 1931. In 1929, he was brought the so-called so-called The law on folk schools and for the first time on our premises is prescribed mandatory eight-year schooling in so-called People's school. In 1931, there was an abolition of the previous districts and the introduction of new administrative and administrative continents, so-called Baninium. During this period, it is characteristic that each bane had some way of free hands and treated school in its own way, so a crafts school was opened in one ban, in another trade school, etc. Although in principle, there is a tendency to unify the school system throughout the Kingdom of Yugoslavia. However, as we know, this has not been done for many reasons. First of all, from the internal problems that rocked the then Kingdom of Yugoslavia, so that this 1929 law was more of a formal character and remained a dead letter on paper, because in addition to the obligation to enroll all children there is information that it is for example. In 1939, a total of 550,000 children of stala for the first class remained unlisted. A parallel that Mr. Minister Zarko Obradovic presented to the Education Committee a few days ago fell into my eyes right now. In fact, he pointed out what the government has given in terms of the law, that according to the 2002 census in Serbia, there are 21.9% of the population over the age of 15 who have not completed primary school and plus 23.9% of the population over 15 who own only primary school. By simple accounts, we come to Serbia that some 45.8% of the population has no more than primary education. This is an alarming and alarming phenomenon for us, so we believe that this problem must be approached much more seriously. Although it was not personally clear to me whether or not the Kosovo population was involved in this data. That's probably what the minister's gonna give us the answer to. Furthermore, the period from 1941 to 1945 was a period of war and schools in Serbia were working on this so-called. The war plan and the programme, brought by General Nedic's government, and he reduced the then material from 14 pre-war cases to 7 war cases, which were priority and normal for all these items were written and new textbooks. In general, during World War II it was disabled to work around 50% of the school space, of which 14% were permanently destroyed and 36% were less or less damaged. If we look at the chronology of the post-World War II, the newly created government has taken care of fixing opportunities in the country, so there has been the creation of a new school system, in which there have been obvious root changes, both in teaching plans and programmes, as well as in textbooks and other accompanying works. December '45. the year was passed a law on the introduction of mandatory seven-year schooling, so-called Seven-year-olds, and in May 1952, that law was amended and then so-called. General instruction on schooling in so-called eight-year-olds. That law was more or less present, I think eight years of schooling until these days. During this period, it is important to mention the first major reform of education in our premises, which was in the period from 1954 to 1958, and the primary task of this reform was to adapt education to modern socio-economic flows as much as possible. Thus, in 1954, the Federal National Assembly appointed a special school reform committee, which in 1958 adopted the famous proposal for a system of education and education in the Federative People's Republic of Yugoslavia, which, unlike today's law on which we are discussing today, was the subject of a broad public discussion. There are recorded clues that it may have been debated for more than a year, which is clearly not the case with this law we're discussing right now. Further, in 1960, a resolution of the Federal National Assembly, which further affirms learning with work, opening of factory and school centres at large enterprises, reforming the education of teaching staff and expanding higher and higher education institutions. The next major resolution was in 1970. It is a resolution of the National Assembly on the development of education and education on a self-government basis and it further affirmed new socio-economic relations between educational workers and workers in productive activities. Then, she introduced the principle of solidarity to help developing municipalities develop undeveloped. Furthermore, there was mass lending of students and students, and the newspaper is also the well-known targeted education, where each level of education after primary school ends at a certain stage, so-called. the first and second stages of secondary education. Based on this 1970 resolution, our school system worked practically until the end of the existence of SFRY. The last decade of the 20th century, as we know, marked war facts in these areas, and it had to leave a mark on our school system, because at that time, generations and generations of students were educated, and now we have an example of seeing these war generations, which may then have gone to school in 1990, have now become students and graduate students, and in some ways we can only now assess the effects of these war acts, because as we know, the effects in education are seen much later than in other human labor activities. After the end of the war in 2003, a comprehensive law on the foundations of the education and education system was introduced, which was then slightly modified in 2004, in order to have the famous Law and Higher Education adopted in September and thus, chronologically, we came to this present law that we are having. As Mr. Minister said on the Committee, about 50% of this law is new legal provisions and about 50% of the existing provisions have been detained. Since our goal today is to assess this bill, I would have immediately presented this first discrepancy that I have already pointed out, that there was no public discussion on this issue, although you, Mr. Minister, have just stated that some working groups have worked in some internal circles, we still believe that the working group is not a representative category, but that this law had to be given much earlier, means that it comes down to the base to be evaluated by educational workers, from pre-school to higher education institutions, because it is a law that is in the interest of more than 100,000 people who are employed by education, which is a fundamental issue. The proof of what I said can also be this letter which all three education unions have sent to the Education Committee and where it is said – unless a union request is accepted because there has been no public debate, we believe that the procedure for the adoption of the bill should be interrupted and it should be restored to review. I don't want to affirm union attitudes right now. The union is not a professional category, but I wanted to make a clear observation of them, too, so they think there was no public debate, which is still one big flaw. In short, in the second part of my presentation, I would now make only the main remarks of the SRS parliamentary group on the draft law on the basis of the education and education system. For the sake of easy follow-up, I'll go over my head. In chapter one, where the basic provisions of the law are given, education goals are mainly stated, but there are no educational goals to be seen. As we know, in the teaching theory, education is manifested through some four components: physical, intellectual, ethical, aesthetic. I couldn't see from here what the goal was for any of these components, and that would be the main grudge for that first head, which doesn't contain the goals of education. Second chapter – development, security and improvement of quality of education and education. It defines institutions that monitor the quality of education and education, and these are advices, first of all the National Educational Council and the Council for Professional Education and Education of Adults, then institutions and the powers of the Ministry are given. Our main observation would be that the National Educational Council, at least when it comes to practice so far, did not fulfil what was defined in the law as its obligation, which is that it submits at least once a year to the Assembly a report on its work. We'd put that as a major remark within Chapter 2. In the third chapter, institutions and other organisations engaged in educational-experienced activity are defined. That's the only thing I'd like to say about what happened to the so-called. networking schools. Namely, if the Republic, province or local self-government units establish a school institution, then it is necessary to appear in accordance with the law on the network of institutions, and further states in the bill that this act consists of units of local self-government, or based on criteria established by the Government. We think that this is the wrong approach, because it was logical to first take the opinion of these people from the base that deals with direct educational-experienced work, and to make up the criteria by which to act. Because if the Government, for example, adopts a criterion that is not valid for some reason, then the unconscious units of local self-government will have to work and act on it, which is at the beginning of the wrong approach, so we believe that this should be corrected. In chapter four, it's organs and institutions. It's about the composition and competences of the managing authority, the advice of parents, professional bodies of institutions and secretaries of institutions, and, as far as I can see, there's the biggest newspaper to introduce an intern secretary, to whom the director has to assign a mentor to bring him into the business. It's a little questionable whether it's necessary or not. In chapter five – education and education programmes and exams, the exams that should be passed at the end of a certain level of education in order to acquire some calling, are final exams, general, professional, artistic graduation. Our proposal is to first check the effects of these tests for a few generations first, and then write them as mandatory. In other heads, in order not to go in line, I'd just say that everything that's a newspaper needs to be checked for two, three or four generations, so that some possible addition of the law can be introduced as a legal obligation. In the end, I'll just have one more sentence and I'll finish it. I would like to draw attention once again to all those who influence the adoption of this law to be very careful, so that the situation does not happen as with the Higher Education Act, where the shortcut is passed by law on behalf of some, in the first wave of lofty, bologna principles, and time has shown that it is not quite so. Because if today, four years after the adoption of that law, you ask teachers and students, what is the basic essence, or what is the basic objective of the Bologna Declaration, I am convinced that more than half of the respondents would not know to answer this question.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-18-0.u24486	The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-18-0.u24487	Ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased to take part in the debate on the draft law on the basis of the education and education system. I listened carefully to all fellow Members of the People's Parliament, as well as the presentation of the Minister on the reasons for the adoption of this law, the reasons for and against, the new rights that the law defines, as well as the assessments of what good, and what poor application of the law will in future bring to all those to whom the law applies. To start at the end, only about 75 thousand newborn children are born annually in Serbia, which means that the 9-year-old primary and preschool education system, 4 years old, covers less than a million children between the ages of 6 and 19. Most of these children are fortunate to have living parents, which means another million and 700 Serbian residents, which makes up about two million and 400,000 people to whom this law will directly apply, which is almost half of Serbia. More than that is just Family Law, which is like a small constitution and applies practically to all those living in Serbia and, of course, the highest above all is Serbia's Constitution. What, then, is good in this law if it will produce consequences in the daily life of a large number of people? The new rights are good, this is my personal position, and I don't think that these new rights have been questioned by any of us, nor by those who are against them, nor by those who are for – therefore, the rights to additional teaching, the rights to paid schooling, the extraordinary, the rights to extending preschool from six to nine months, and a series of new rights that the law introduces no one has questioned. That means the law is good. What else is good in law? I wanted to quote, even by members, but I think I would bother the National Assembly with quotes, but it is clear that the law points to a new social model when it comes to education. This is, after the first shifts in 2001, the first law where I see the system understands, acknowledges and accepts that the school serves education, transfer of knowledge, and that the education, or transfer of values, is a whole society, not a school, as in the title, educational institution. By the way, I belong to a minority who thinks that education is an overly educational system, and that many other sectors, side-by-side, help education as an educational system also be an educational institution. Carefully listening to the reasons against, that is why I want to see what has missed possibly the minister and the ministry that the law has proposed, as well as to us who have read the law, because no one can read as well as one whose opinion you listen to, and all in all but three very reasonable and serious remarks that I think have been translated into amendments by MPs from various parliamentary groups, are the biggest objections to this law – which is the heat, which is Saturday and what is afternoon. It's quite a nice set of remarks that I've had a chance to hear several times and that all together, of course, doesn't make sense. Not that the law doesn't make sense, but that there's no point in being hot, which is Saturday and it's afternoon. I don't agree with the heat, and Saturday and noon, somehow. So we even have a consensus and it doesn't make sense that it's hot, really. Why do I say it's important? Because in the criticism of this law, it is terribly important that we listen carefully to each other, because if we are not as a People's Assembly interested in this law in politics or in Family Law, or to the laws in the fields of public health and health that come to us, then I don't know what we could even make arrangements about when our conflicting political views are at stake? Why do I think that the best message is this good spirit being implemented by different members of the law? Because it seems to me that the law is an attempt, when it is brought in, to oversee the application of this law to be a promotion of the knowledge society. I'm someone who is already known to publicly advocate that Serbia's only problem is ignorance, and that ignorance in places where it can't be – ignorance in public affairs, ignorance in the management elite, ignorance in various places where ignorance produces harm from ignorance. I never talk about intentions. I believe that people always and more often, out of ignorance, do harm. When you look at why those with whom we are working and the EU are more successful, whose member we want to become, because they changed faster in the knowledge sectors, because they gained knowledge faster and because they put knowledge as a priority in their societies. I am grateful to my colleague Goran Mihajlovic for the comprehensive chronological display of education, but I am truly grateful, because I intended to make a part of my presentation so and I thought that this was the part that should be devoted to Dosite Obradovic, once in this Assembly to hear the chronology of education and once and more to hear the name of Dosite Obradović, and the sentence he said – school, brothers, schools, not bells and protractors. That's what I've believed since she taught me to read, and there's this beautiful 47-48. The chronology presented by my colleague Mihajlovic shows what has changed, and at what pace I too serve as a great argument to share with you what are all what I call urban legends when it comes to education. So, as my colleague spoke impeccably and factographically, where do we put the sentence – it's always been better than today? When? When were the Stipe Shuvar reforms? Between the two wars, when women weren't allowed to go to school? When didn't everyone have access to education? When was it better? In the '90s when there was no electricity or strikes, or there was no water, or they bombed us? So, when it was better, if we had a sentence it was always better than now? On the contrary, I claim that it has never been better than now, no matter how many ridicules it has caused among colleagues who think that now is the worst since it's ever been. I would ask for second time evidence because the argument of my fellow opposition parliamentary group is in favor of my thesis that it is now the best of all. It's never a problem that it can't get any worse; the problem with human society is that it can always do better. My efforts for continuous reforms in the education system, because of my personal attitude towards education and knowledge, I personally call myself a nerd with pride, because nerds I mean as people who have been curious all their lives, gain and seek the knowledge of their entire lives. If Dostoevsky said beauty will save the world, I only claim if beauty joins and nerds. We nerds will join some beauty, hopefully, in the future. Why do I think that the will to change is crucial for successful Serbia in the future? Twenty years ago, no school in Serbia had a computer. Four colleges had computers in processing, one of which was my college. Everything went well and on the initiative of people who love change. At the same time, most schools in the EU introduced information technologies. And they went forward, not because they're smarter, not because they're more capable, but because they have built the will to change in the system of education, because they have built the will to change in the system of knowledge, because they're open to new knowledge and because they see their education system as training for the future. If we divide it as a European value, which we do not seem to argue about, then as a National Assembly, I think we can become a spirit promoter that I see in the law implementing, which is – that Serbia must take knowledge as a priority in every sector where political, economic, cultural and whatever life you want. Why is the will for change in the system of education precious to the future? Because it creates a chance for children who were born this year or children who were born in 2001, or children who will only be born next year. If we are obliged to anyone, if there is anything patriotism, if there is anything full of heart when it is said Serbia, then it is creating a chance for people who will be born in Serbia and for those who will put us in the places where we are now, as the ruling elite that we manage the resources in Serbia. We owe them a chance to live much better than we do, and to education much better than we do and to be more successful than we do.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-18-0.u24488	MP Alexander Pejcic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-18-0.u24489	Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, we have two laws ahead of us, a bill on the foundation of the education system and a proposal for a law on textbooks and other teaching tools, and I will only remain on the first law, a bill on the basis of the education system. In the beginning, a little dyspression. Even we Southerners, ministers, say to us that we have only two downfalls, noticed that there are a lot of grammatical errors in this law, and that's a good signal for this law to re-enter the procedure only in the fall when you correct those grammatical errors. Otherwise, no one from the DSS argues that Serbia and how this system law is needed, a quality law. If we had heard from you in the opening statement that about 1,350,000 citizens of Serbia are semi-literate or illiterate, that 350,000 citizens are illiterate, that they don't even have any classes of school, and one to three classes of school are one to three. In principle, this is one of the reasons why Serbia needs one quality law on education. But we argue with you in something else. For us, there is a vague reason why this kind of adoption of this law, first of all by emergency procedure, at the time of the school break and the second thing, you said in your lab that there was a public debate. We claim there was no public debate. For us it is a public debate when trade unions, and professional services, and when NGOs are involved, and staff from schools and many other structures. I have here a statement from the union's representatives, who feel that this law is not good particularly in that domain of the education funding system in some future time, and you said it would be around 2014, that it would remain between 15 and 20,000 teachers without a job. They say further that such a funding system has been implemented in Romania, Bulgaria and Slovenia, which is much more allocated to funds from Serbia for education and that the funding system has not proved good there as well. My colleague, Milica Vojic-Markovic, said the MP group and DSS MPs would talk about some special legal principles. That's how I want to talk about structure and delegation on school boards. You took over from the previous law that tripartite delegation, three from the teaching council, three from the local self-government and three from the parent council. You've reduced the number of delegates on the school board in primary education schools, which we think is fine, for the simple reason that there's an accelerated schooling going on there, in one year they end up two years. Parents would change every two years. It's okay. However, we think that this solution was not well applied in practice, and later I will give you an eclectic example. We think it's best to give the teachers a head start here, get five from the teachers' council, get two from the local self-government and two from the parents' council. When selecting a teacher's board, he knows best who the best candidate is, because it is addressed to him, he is directly with him and knows his references. That's one of the reasons why he defined us, which is why we think that on the school board he should be five from the teaching council. One example I wanted to tell you happened in Leskovac at Desanka Maksimović School, I don't know if you've heard. Namely, that's where the director was appointed. I can see the assistant's holding her head, 'cause she probably knows what's going on. The school's director, Desanka Maksimovic, was appointed, named Stana Stankovic, while she was on sick leave. There's been a change of local government and we don't mind, the SPS has remained in power with the DS, the school board has been changed. Suddenly, they began to change their principals suddenly by school, disrespecting the competition institution. In fact, that woman had the right for another year and a half to be director, and that was established by the inspector, the supervisory officer, who sent you the record. I don't want to doubt your honesty. I want you to name me the one who didn't deliver that you within 15 days have to plead on that record. You haven't spoken. The woman was transferred to sick leave when she was, with all the clues. In that sense, I would ask you to send a clear message to all school heads, to all educational inspectors, that such things do not happen in the future. I'm afraid this will be a practice for the future. This law has some good qualities. We commended Article 12, which provides for the establishment of a council, above all the National Council and the Council for Professional Education and Adult Education. But let's argue about one thing, and let's argue about whether that advice should be appointed by the Government or by the Council should be appointed by the National Educational Council. We need it appointed by the National Educational Council in order to depolitise this very advice on professional education and adult education. DSS MPs have invested a large number of amendments, you've heard from my distinguished colleague, Zoran Shami, about 52 amendments. I hope that you will consider them all and that you will include certain amendments in this draft law on the basis of the education system.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-18-0.u24490	MP Zoran Babic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-18-0.u24491	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, by analysing this bill on the basis of a system of education and education, I can't say that the bill promoter had a bad intention. But the education system must be viewed from a sociological, economic, geographical and ultimately from an existential aspect. One of the reasons for the adoption of this law, as you stated, is that the education system is not in line with the requirements of the economy, i.e. employers. That's right, except I'd like you to tell me what the economy in the Republic of Serbia is doing. Is it a meditative economy, or industry? Is "The First Five-year-old" from Triestenik, where, as you know, there is a secondary and higher technical school. Will the graduates of these schools be able to get a job in "The First Five-year-old"? No, I don't. Is Magnochrom or Car Factory working, and there is a great Department of Engineering in the Kingdom. Can engineers who have graduated from the Faculty of Engineering in the Kingdom since 2001 count on a job at the Magnochroma or the Car Factory? What about “14. In October, from Kruševec, Gosom, MIN from Nis and a long list of companies in Serbia, such as this, is long. Where will future generations of engineers, constructors, technologists, but also metal-stricken, metal-hungry and other young people who will acquire professional training under this law? Could we perhaps expect that in Kragujevac, as the peak of hypocrisy, all-powerful Minister Dinkic will establish the school staff needed in the auto-industry? Will this man, whose actions become Serbian state cancer, continue to deceive and impoverish Serbian citizens? While a man is in a position to cheer and dress in Serbia, you, Mr. Minister, unfortunately, to train future unemployed, future strikers, teach them how to survive without pay or with 15,000 dinars a month, teach them how to strike hunger and, God forbid, as easily and faster as possible to cut off the extremities, teach them how to strike in front of the government of the Republic of Serbia and possibly how to break through police cordons. No matter what law on the foundation of the education system it is, there is no work in Serbia. Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, in addition to these many agencies you have established, seem to me 105 or 106, under this bill you have provided for the establishment of a National Educational Council, I do not think I am wrong, with 43 members, as well as a advice on professional education of adults with 21 members, expert commissions with unlimited number of members, institutions for improving education and education, or farting the quality of education and education. You have foreseen the establishment of a centre for development of programs and textbooks for professional education, adult education, for professional development of educational staff. All in all, through all these bodies without any control, you plan to hire a large number of people, who will be burdened by all the taxpayers of the state of Serbia, who are not directly related to teaching and the journal. On the other hand, by increasing the class norm and introducing the principles of funding schools depending on the number of students, which at this point would mean that some 30 per cent of Serbia's educational workers are surplus. I have one question, which is – are teachers responsible for all her economic difficulties in the empty or half-empty schools of Serbia? Under such a bill, teachers in relaxed impoverished villages and townships, such as southern Serbia, will be far less rewarded and less paid for much harder work than their colleagues in large areas, such as Belgrade. In the light of this bill, you stated that internal indicators of inefficient education and education systems suggest that the network of schools and the number of employees does not adequately monitor demographic change due to migration and decline of birth, nor the increased needs of the population for pre-school education and education. Is this law going to change that? I don't think so. Will this law give children in Serbia new, more modern, more equipped schools? I also think it won't, because the last, not with the last budget rebalance, the republican budget for this year, the local self-government has lost 15 billion dinars of transfer funds. Most municipalities and cities in Serbia are in front of bankruptcy and do not have the funds not only for construction, but even for the investment maintenance of existing schools and pre-school institutions. Finally, I would quote to you Mrs Anastasia Milojevic, whose statement you can see in one of the comments on the Internet of this bill, which says: "I am a graduate professor of class teaching. I'm 30 years old and I've been working for four years. Every summer, I get sick of working from September, and I need a job, I support my family. What do you do to give us a job? I always work in small communities that count only 15 students. What if that goes away? Where's our perspective, who do I turn to for a job? What's with the school? Where are so many young educators going? Remember these words well, Mr. Minister, these are the words of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-18-0.u24492	National MP Radica Jocic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-18-0.u24493	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Mr. Minister, in addition to legal and strategic reasons for the adoption of a law on the basis of an education and education system relating to compliance with some new laws and strategies related to the national programme for the integration of the Republic of Serbia into the EU, which is obviously the most important, as significant reasons for the adoption of this law, the government has also cited empirical indicators of the quality and efficiency of education in the Republic of Serbia which are mildly concerned. First, the results of student achievements show that children in the Republic of Serbia have lower levels of achievements from peers from other European countries, especially with regard to the use of acquired knowledge in new situations, which is a serious indicator of the lack of functionality of our education. Secondly, UNICEF research suggested teacher assessment of the increase in school violence among children, but also of the teacher-teacher relationship and vice versa. Thirdly, research by international and domestic institutions suggests a small number of children from sensitive groups, especially Roma, children with developmental disorders, rural children, and a high rate of rash from education and education systems. Fourthly, the network of schools and the number of employees does not monitor demographic change, migration and decline of birth, or the increased need for pre-school education and education. Fifthly, the education system is not in line with the needs of the economy and, which is also indicative, the achievement of programme content does not provide sufficient competitiveness for finished students on the labour market. The sixth, the educational level of the entire population is very low and given the state of illiteracy and professional in-training of the population, the problem should be systematically approached. Seven, the education of teachers and educators shows in practice that they are more educated for the profession than for a teacher’s call, i.e. without sufficient pedagogical and psychological disciplines, didactics and methods, which significantly affects the results of education. These indicators, although they seem rather discouraging at first glance, have led the government, preparing this bill, to set itself as a goal to improve all three dimensions of education – equality, efficiency and quality of education and education. How successful the government has been talking about the large number of amendments submitted by the parliamentary groups and reactions of educational workers' unions that can be monitored in public. Given that I have already talked about this in the context of an isolated opinion, I would just briefly remind myself that I believe that bodies such as the National Educational Council, the advice for adult professional education, are seduced by centres as organisational units and plus many expert commissions that can be educated with double membership, pre-grey bodies that only increase the state apparatus, and do not contribute to the efficiency of our education. In Articles 44, 45 and 46, which relate to the prohibition of discrimination, the ban on violence, abuse and neglect, and the ban on party organisation and action, it is well-numbered that everything is forbidden, but I think there should be members where everything is allowed for teachers and educators to cope with students who are increasingly aggressive, especially in higher-class primary schools and secondary schools, for which parents have less and less time, who are increasingly looking forward to better success and so forth. I'd like to take a brief look at the part about the school director's election. In view of the school board, there are still nine members, three of whom are representatives of local self-government, three representatives of staff and three representatives of parents, and the school board appoints and resolves the local self-government unit assembly, it is clear that school directors will continue to be party staff, as their choice will not be possible without the consent of local self-government and the minister, and the opinion of the teaching council remains not binding for anyone. I guess that's why it was important for the coalition government to form the same in the Republic and local self-government, I guess that's why it was necessary to transfer all the coalition authorities wherever possible, I guess that's why Mr Branko Ruzic, chairman of the Executive Committee of the SPS in his letter to the Municipal Committee of the SPS in my place 21st year, wrote: 'Forsing the same authorities by verticals in the Republic is certainly the interest of citizens and the interest of the party. This makes it easier to communicate local authorities and resolution ministries in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, not only on those headed by socialists, it is easier to plan and provide funds for various investment ventures and other party interests, such as employment, selection and appointment of our staff in the institutions of the system, etc.' Given the partocracies in all spheres of our society, it seems that all this leads to the fact that as directors and teachers and teachers they will become party staffs, even though the minister spoke at the beginning of half an hour about the desire to improve the quality of education. Given that the provisions on the final exam in primary education and education have been changed, I would say that it was high time to change this type of admission exam for high school, in which students have previously given questions and answers. It is clear to all of us that Europeans, to whom this country is flocking, are not meant to have smart people come out of our school, it is clear that they are only planning us for the simple workforce and the market for their products, but I guess we ourselves should take a little care of these things ourselves. In line with the fact that the final exam in primary education will be the first time passed by the 2010/2011 generation. the year ends the eighth grade, and that the transitional provisions of the Bill of Law set out the obligations of the Institute, the National Educational Council and the Minister to prepare a proposal for the adoption of the programme of this examination, we expect that they will all bear in mind that these same students have been evaluated for eight years, and that the final exam is only one day, which should by no means be crucial, while ignoring all that the students have observed until then. Chapter 10 of the Law, Articles 155 to 160, regulates the new concept of education funding. According to this proposal, funds to finance the activities of institutions are determined on the basis of the economic price for achieving the programme of education and education per child, i.e. the student (i.e. Capitational formula) based on the number and type of students who are educated and some corrective coefficient. We understand that this model is proposed, because the countries in the region that are EU members are implementing this model, but do we have to do everything that is right for someone else to prescribe? What about small schools that mean a lot in their midst, especially rural ones? What about thousands of educators who are likely to lose their jobs this way? Article 160, which regulates the provision of means of higher quality education, says - the institution can participate in parents, children and students, units of local self-government, donors, sponsors or from extended work to provide funds for higher quality in the field of pre-school, primary and secondary education. The funds referred to in Article 1 shall be used to improve the conditions for education and training in relation to space, equipment, teaching tools for the achievement of programmes which are not the activity of the institution, for the nutrition and assistance of children and pupils. How do you think, Mr. Minister, that in the White Palanca primary school provides additional funding from parents, donors or sponsors, if the average profit has been the lowest in Serbia for over 12 thousand dinars for years now? And how from the local administration if they're saving her maximum savings from the Republic? Won't the government question the functioning of some schools this way? The White Palanca didn't mind being so poor that it became a place with the highest number of doctors on the head of the population, but the question is, are we going to make it as long as we keep that trend going? I would agree with previous discussions that it is high time to pay special attention to something nice in our schools, and these are talented children and those who show special results in competitions. That money doesn't have much to do with the fact that last year's first place in the republican biology contest, besides all the university centres, laboratories and institutes, was won by a girl from the White Palanca OS. I would also agree that it was a mistake that the backlog of the ruling hadn't entered the middle grade for a while. I think she may have lost her purpose in this way, and I would ask the Ministry's representatives to seriously consider that even in the lower classes, the evaluation of the government will be numbered and will affect the overall success, because I think it would contribute to timely recognition of students' development problems. As a longtime educator, I worked both in high and primary schools, I have to refer briefly to Article 88, which regulates that the school calendar is prescribed by the minister by June 1st, and yes, which is very imprecise, the students have school leave. I think many educators will agree that lately we have something too many of those so-called. leave. Were not the winter and summers sufficient, then the spring and the autumn, then the Easter? The process of education requires a certain continuity in work and I think that this number of holidays interrupts this continuity and reduces the results of work, because no student vacation uses to make up for what he missed. I can't help but look back on the so-called today. inclusive approach or mode of operation, but on the one hand. Of course I don't mind this kind of work, but as a teacher, I must appeal to the minister to bear in mind that everything necessary for such a way of working is to be provided. First of all, the learning staff is qualified enough for such work. Imagine a teacher in a classroom with 30 students, who should give everyone enough attention and time, and he still has one or two students who, for any reason, need additional support in education and education. I don't think children with any kind of special needs should necessarily be enrolled in special schools, but then we have to do everything, and we have to invest as much money as it takes, so the other kids in the department won't be denied anything. I come from a school where about 30% of the students of Roma nationality. Believe me, teachers and teachers are making an unprecedented effort to finish primary school. I think this is a particular problem that deserves significant attention from the Ministry. Teachers have to work specifically with the parents of these children because they don't see the purpose of schooling. Since the sixth and seventh grade, children are starting to run seasonal affairs, girls in that class are already getting married and so on. Do you, Mr. Minister, think that one teacher can do all this, still hold extra and extra classes, prepare students for competitions, conduct pedagogical documentation, hold parent meetings, attend seminars for continuous completion, read and permanently perfect, and still have time for his children? You will be pleased, Mr. Minister, with this law many, and I would like to remind you that you are the minister and those 102 thousand educators. The SRS parliamentary group has submitted a number of amendments, in an attempt to correct the bill and bring it into a state that it can be applied in the state of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-18-0.u24494	National MP Slobodan Samardzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-18-0.u24495	Dear People's MPs, respected members of the Presidency, Mr Minister, the bill that we are talking about today is not really prescribed from some European regulation or directive. As a text, he is obviously the work of a working team formed by the minister of education and there, unlike some other examples and cases, it can be said that it is indeed so. This assembly passed a number of laws that were prescribed from some European legal projects. I mean the EU, of course, is not the case here. Although it may not be an objection to this working team, perhaps only because the EU does not issue a directive or regulation in this area. She just doesn't regulate her. In the EU, it is almost fully in the competence of the Member States. In this text, however, a lot of these, I would say, ideological innovations that have come from the EU and which are largely contained in recommendations made by its authorities to Member States. These recommendations, as the word itself says, are not binding and are at least practiced, used and adopted by Member States. It seems that we have been very approachable here and that we have largely accepted and concentrated them, placed them in this first part of the principle law. I'm going to illustrate only one thing, just one principle, to show how pointless and extremely unnecessary that was in this case. That's the principle of non-discrimination. It is mentioned in this proposal by law, or explained, or even normised by several members. If I did not skip one, in any case, in Article 3(1) of Article 4 point 15, in Article 6(1), the whole of Article 44, which has four or five views, is dedicated to the prohibition of discrimination or the principle of non-discrimination. The accident of applying this principle is precisely because it sets out a law on education like this. The educational system traditionally in this country, we take into account an older history, and the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, the socialist Yugoslavia, Milosevic's 90s regime, the post-tobaric regime, traditionally has a very egalitarian attitude. It's a characteristic of the education system in this area. All of us who have entered the education system relatively long ago and passed through all of its stages, including degrees, will hardly be able to confirm that some principle, that any discrimination has been applied in this education system in any way. These regimes were flawed by many things. Let's take the post-war socialist and communist regime, or the '90s regime, or finally this post-taxtobaric, but in the area of education he normally gave the best results relatively compared to other social subsystems. Indeed, everyone had a kind of equal approach, more or less, it's understood how much conditions allowed it, or how much the environments, some that were representative and developed, could have done better, like Belgrade and the centers of the former republics. Some, like less developed environments, to a much smaller extent. But the principle of egalitarianism, egalitarianism, which I think is completely justified for the area of education, was present. Where on this particular case do you insist in such a large number on this principle of non-discrimination? Totally unwarranted. It simply seems to me that it is one such outer ingredient of this entire ensemble of principles, which came from such a need to play these European ideas. I say we play because with European ideas it's such that you either apply them or you don't apply them. You can express your idolatry to them or keep mentioning them, putting them in some symbols visible on hats and computers, etc., but the thing is how you live and how your private life works, and your public life and systems within that public life, especially when it comes to education. So that's one aspect that's quite characterized by this ideological process of this law, which wasn't necessary at all. It's not necessary given the reality and the whole history that we know of, how much I know her in this case or how much I've lived her like a man who's been through education systems in multiple regimes with us and on our occasions. The second perhaps greater application legal-systemically for this law is that it has foreseen a very large number of bodies and institutions that need to implement all these principles, principles, objectives, forms, processes, etc. The system is reorganized. There's a lot of these organs. Some functions could come together without any big consequences. We have two national councils, although this one is not called national, but it performs the same function, expert education advice, two institutions, a large number of centres, a large number of administrative authorities, etc. Besides, the law is insane. There are very many norms that are unnecessary, which are general, or are too detailed. There was no normal nomotechnical measure between the generality of the norm and its concrete application. So that I don't speak abstractly, I'll set an example of a part of the law. The provisions on the director of the institution; there are only six members who regulate the status of the office, the authority, the choice of director. In those six members you have at least 55 views and at least 50 points that regulate these things related to the director. If I didn't prove it now quantitatively, so I wouldn't waste my time, but it could be easily checked. Namely, this team has written a small law on the director of the facility. Just see if it's possible to sum it up? Is it possible to sum up 15 points of the director's authority at five without losing anything? Seems possible to me. Either a dozen points about his impeachment or replacing him into some smaller number. Simply, it will be difficult to apply if that language of law or law in this case is so stretched and intense. There are many such examples, and I would simply draw attention to one of the ways in our legislation that has not come to a level of short and clear expression and writing. When it comes to many detailed provisions of this law, we will have the opportunity to discuss in the follow-up of this debate when it comes to details, etc., but I would draw attention to one member not because it is a member, but because it is a problem with which a major failure has been made. It's something here called education and education abroad. The whole thing is regulated by only one member – 92, and you see it the way. Since it's short, I'll read it, you won't be bored. "For children and students staying abroad, education and education can be organised in Serbian according to a special programme." Who exactly are you thinking you can't see, but let's imagine all of our children living abroad and staying. These include, in my opinion, if I'm right, maybe I'm wrong, not just children, people who work there occasionally or work in our diplomatic services, etc., but children of the entire category of population that they, the hosts, call foreign workers. The area was terribly abandoned and was in the former Yugoslavia, but of all the Yugoslav republics that exist today and have such activities in the world, Serbia is the most lagging place, above all where the population is concentrated labourably, in Western Europe, etc. A completely unsettled area, given the circumstances, I know something about it. I didn't do it, but I do know that all people complain that these children are going into the education systems of these domestic states, Germany, France, etc., but teaching in the Serbian language that they are being organised is extremely weak, disorganised, no funds are being given. They simply resent and protest for it in the largest number of cases. One such area could be devoted to at least as many members and as many provisions of the law as it is devoted to the possibility of foreign states and foreign private persons to establish educational institutions in Serbia, at least so. Compare these members, and you will see how dedicated it is to the arrangement of one, and how much of the arrangement of other things. In addition, this little item I quoted, where it is not said to be, or to be, established, it is accompanied by another attitude, where it is actually said that the minister practically edits the matter. I don't think it was a healthy idea. ), since the matter has been abandoned, neglected and has not been given particular attention to it, it has simply been pushed by the minister to deal with the problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-18-0.u24496	The time of the parliamentary group has been used, and Mr. Shami as an authorised representative has four minutes left. Mr. Zoran Mašić has a word. Your remaining time is seven minutes away.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-18-0.u24497	The Honorable Presidency, Mr. Minister, representatives of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in this time that I have, I will try to present to the minister, the associates and the general public what, in my personal opinion and in the opinion of us from the SNS parliamentary group, is not best regulated, although I will agree with most of the speakers who have said that this is a very comprehensive law and that most of what regulates comprehensive and relatively quality regulation. However, I think that some of the solutions that are being introduced either as new or as something that has already been in the existing law, which is not properly implemented, are repeated and I don't think it will bring much improvement. First of all, I'd like to start by introducing a final exam in basic education and education. Minister, you're a university teacher, as am I, and as a number of MPs, and you know as well as by passing a graduate exam, the comprehensiveness of the education process at the university and high school is being checked. I don't think anything good in the sense of verifying the knowledge of a founder will do and improve the introduction of that final exam, will just lead those children into a stressful situation, besides parents, who will have concerns about whether and how they will pass that final exam. Especially as you define here in paragraph 2 – the final exam assesses the degree of achievement of general and specific standards of achievement in basic education and education. This word "achievement" I don't think is in the spirit of the Serbian language and you've had to find a better solution, I guess, to check the total knowledge. He says – after the final exam, the student is entitled to enrol in high school without passing the qualification exam. That's a good thing, but I think the good practice that's been introduced in these things is I don't know exactly how many years, where our founding children passed this qualification exam, which was at the same time the possibility of ranking. He was also classifying. I'm very interested in how, based on the status of the final exam, you're going to do the classification, whether only by success, and how you're going to rank it all. I think it will be much harder for you than it has been so far, especially since it has already entered normal practice to pass this classification exam and children are well prepared, with a high percentage well laid both Serbian and mathematics. The next thing I want to point out is what I expected, and I think a lot of others, that this law regulates education in a much better way especially gifted and talented children. In my opinion, in Article 77, just defined in a way, and that is, in attitude 4, it stands – for students with exceptional facilities, it brings an individual educational plan, according to the attitude of the 3rd of this article. Paragraph 3 also defines what the institution should prescribe for a child and a student who, due to social deprivation and disruption in development, disability and other reasons, needs additional support for education and education, the institution brings an individual educational plan. For these specially gifted ones, you only exclude point 3, and these are specific standards of achievement and adapted standards for individual or all subjects with education to deviate from specific standards. That's what it says in point 3 you're subtracting. There has been a serious error and a serious failure at point 5, where it stands: individualized way of teaching and teachers, or individualised approach adapted to the type of interference. Do highly gifted children have a problem with this? This point 5 applies to them as well. I ask you and your associates to look at this one more time and, if there is no amendment, to make a correction through the Educational Committee and to exclude this point 5, not only point 3) but also point 5), because this is an insult to those highly talented children, to their parents, to define their status in this article. Just as I personally thought that in a much better way you would define curricula and programs, mentoring work with these children, funding and scholarship of those children, because they largely affirm our country through various competitions etc. Next thing I know, it's about the directors of the facility. You have made this law that the head of school or educational institutions is the most important director in this country. Why is this director more important than a high school principal or a college dean? You're running some kind of test on him. According to that logic, it should also be introduced to the head of high school or to the final dean. I don't see the point of that. Especially since the existing law prescribed the director to pass the exam for the director, so far it has not come to life. Whether or not we'll see in the future, but this member who's been regulated 59, they've been made certain, let's say, failures and conflicts, so that the deadline for directors is set for a year in this article. Article 174 states that the director of the institution has been elected until the date of entry into force of this law to pass the examination within three years. This is about the classic bringing into an unequal position of a person in the same legal situation. So one is put on a deadline for a year, and the other directors are given a three-year term. (President: Time. Unfortunately, the time was up, but I still wanted to talk. I hope it'll be through the amendments, licensing teachers...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-18-0.u24498	National MP Nikola Savic has a word. The SRS has 33 minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-18-0.u24499	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will begin this exhibition by continuing what I was talking about as an authorised representative of the SRS group, when Ms Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, contrary to the Rules of Procedure, interrupted me, although I have notified it in good time that the time that is over 20 minutes has passed has denied me the total time available to the SRS. But good, what's there. What I'm talking about, I'm gonna have to finish, and after that, we're gonna point to something else about this law. In fact, I was talking about that in our textbooks, citing above all the examples of history textbooks, there is much that is not in spirit, or better said is contrary to our national interests, national values. Now I'm going to try to show what's going on that there are things in the textbooks that I said something about here and something more in my previous presentation. Namely, the Croatian tycoon Ante Zuzul is largely printing and selling textbooks for Serbian elementary schools, so that Serbian founders learn the first letters from the Croatian Bucharest. That's what I can say, because that's really what it is. That gentleman became the owner of some publishing house of once powerful Bigz, the Belgrade publishing office, and he built two companies from Bigz. One's called Bigz Pablishing, and the other's called Bigz School. He is primarily a businessman, but by performing on the Serbian market he managed to win some school directors and some people at the ministry and reigned somewhere with 40% of Serbian space, i.e. book markets. It's not just this Bigz, or Biggs Pablishing, but on our market it's a government and a Slovenian firm called Clet. In fact, it's a German firm, only representation and subsidiary is the main one in Slovenia, with representations here with us, and in these companies they claim to have a long tradition in publishing school textbooks with an enviable renaissance, and that is what they say – in many countries. This company "Clet" publishes all textbooks for elementary school from first to fourth grade and I will list only some textbooks. Don't take this as a commercial for this firm, just for business, that's not my intention, even on the contrary. I will list some of the textbooks published by this company: "Mathematics", the textbook "Play of Numbers and Forms", the first and second part, "Serbian Language", "Citanka", "Play of Words", "Bukar from Letters to Encyclopaedia", "Teachers Handbook" with the textbook set etc. I really ask Mr. Obradovic, the present minister here, what will the state do to prevent Croatian and Slovenian capital from educating Serbian children with their textbooks? Indeed, this is a very sensitive matter. I'm not against the flow of goods and capital, etc., but certainly this is the most sensitive sphere of society, and here it needs to be very careful. The Ministry of Education, as well as some other government services, must do their job to deal with this serious problem and sort of solve it. Indeed, we must not allow our young generations to be educated by remembering what our enemies want, Madeline Albright, Hillary Clinton, Gjerj Soros and many others, not to mention them. Now I'm going to say something more concrete about this law itself. In principle, I've made a lot of remarks about this law, and it's written by the SRS and a large number of amendments to this law, and I'm just going to count some things that I've noticed by watching and listing this law. For example, in Article 8(4), which refers to persons who perform educational-experienced work, when looking at that member and that attitude, he is, in his essence, discriminatory in some way. Namely, those who, during their education at a higher school, did not have such subjects as psychology, pedagogy, which is a small number of subjects, have, above all, philosophical, philosophical, etc., and all other colleges, whose diplomas work with, above all, in professional schools, did not have that, and there is a lot of need in Serbian schools for this type and this profile of experts. Furthermore, there is a provision in this same article that I also don't think should stand in this law. It primarily refers to the number of points. She's completely unclear. I asked some educators, and I'm an educator myself, and believe me, it's not clear to me. Again with this provision were damaged by those educators who did not get their diplomas at the time when the transfer system worked. I went a little deeper into all this, and I want to ask the Minister -- is this perhaps some sort of substitute for a professional exam that was once passed by educational workers? Although, there's this category now, but it's not called a professional exam, it's a license, but there's a big problem. Because because of bureaucracy and these powerful institutions, agencies, centres, etc., especially in the interior of Serbia, a huge number of educators have been waiting for years, some after 5-6 years, to pass the license exam, but they simply don't get a call, they don't know who to turn to, and because of the lack of urgency of the administration, they're not able to pass the exam, the license exam, and if some provisions were literally applied, and some members of this law, such persons should stop working, and of course not their guilt. We have seen here, with this newly formed advice on professional education and adult education, 21 members are foreseen, and from which structure these members are proposed, but none of the structures give out how many members and, as is said in the National Educational Council, it is not said how, from where and whether membership will be financed in these councils. In Article 33, which speaks of extended action, you have indeed well predicted it by law, and that is fine, however, if we have in mind the Budgetary System Act where 40% of these funds made on the basis of their own incomes go to the state, then this extended activity will literally be extinguished, because none of the educational workers, none of the schools, the school director, will be interested in dealing with the extended work, because of all that when the state goes down, taxes and everything else, there will be nothing left for them, so simply no one will want to get involved in all this. One of my colleagues mentioned the board of directors' exams. There are certain misunderstandings about these specifics and these things. Of course, I don't mind, in essence, that directors have some kind of, say, obligation to know something more than those people and school workers. However, you are automatically favoring certain people by imposing a mandatory exam for the director. Does this mean that if someone who has ambitions to become head of the school, in a year, two, five or ten, practically points out those ambitions, reveals their own strategy, maybe someone sees their chance to become headmaster of the moment when the previous director is out of office or something else, and this is how you practically force him right up front to legitize, and you know that such people will be envious by their colleagues or by direct competitors for that place from his school, so that he can, to some extent, disrupt relations at school, collective or institution, as the law says. For example, it says here that an assistant director needs a certain part of his working time to spend in class. Of course, it's not a dispute, but you have to bear in mind that according to the standards prescribed by which schools the assistant director will have, these are mostly large schools. You know we've got 40 schools, 50 classes. First of all, it is thought of high school, although there are elementary schools that are quite large, so the assistant director, based on the total number of schools, has very few schools. Therefore, it should be clearly specified here what is the scope that assistant directors should carry out in teaching, because it is large schools and it is a large amount of work, so that it should be defined exactly. It's my opinion that it should be a maximum of 20% of that standard for teachers. As far as the election case is concerned, it is a matter of religious and civil education, you have this law provided that when a student is once declared to be an electoral object, that the subject must remain in place until the end of schooling. I personally think, and practice says so, that this should not be seen in this way, but even on the contrary to leaving students with the possibility, the SRS has written one amendment on the subject, that during schooling an election subject can be changed. We simply know from experience that when children define themselves as one or another subject, they really have absolutely no idea what they're dealing with in one or another case, but they're defined on the basis of some criteria, his friend or his friend have defined themselves for this subject, so he's either heard that the professor of religious science is younger or better than the professor of civic education, or vice versa, especially since these objects are descriptively assessed, they don't affect the average, so it doesn't create any additional complications when running the school administration. Because of the time I have to leave to my colleagues, to mention the graduation you provided for by this law. So, general, professional, art graduates, I don't have any major objections to that, but one thing, one big remark I'm going to make here -- general prom, I guess, it refers to, although it doesn't stand here, but it implies it refers to high school. Students who have graduated from general school don't take entrance exams in colleges, and students who have a professional degree, means students from vocational schools and students who have a passed art degree in art schools, they should literally be admitted to colleges.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-18-0.u24500	The word has a folk emissary Marina Ragush. The time available for the SRS parliamentary group is 18 minutes, followed by Parliament member Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-18-0.u24501	Mr. Minister, I'm really glad that we can think loudly about these topics together and talk, hopefully, in the most constructive way possible, so I believe you will help us to come up with some answers concerning the educational community in general, even if what should be, the state of Serbia. Today I listened carefully at certain intervals of colleagues from the ruling majority and opposition parties, especially the Madam Chairman, and I really agree that it is a natural state – that everyone wants to change and that this type of dialectic is something that is listed in the most perfect being in nature, such as man. The comparison with the EU and the developed countries of that family is also how well, especially if we have in mind and the next thing – that the system or the governing elite has set up and made such a change possible. Then the logical question arises – why hasn't the management elite set up such a system for nine years, so we might have fewer arguments to criticise the ruined Serbian society in certain ways? I'd like you to give me an institution that works in a satisfactory manner. It seems to me that the state of Serbia and all citizens of the Serbian state are unfortunately the experimental rabbits of the worst kind of experiment in vivo. As the elite came, she changed course. As who led certain institutions, he gave himself the right to simply manage the fates of these people and these countries in the worst possible way. Reforms, which would even try to implement, would stand at the beginning. Now, ladies and gentlemen, we have a sick company. Generations that should take over responsible functions in this country and in this society, which cannot be cured from delinquency, underage prostitution, rising drug abuse and very bad role models. We have a criminalized society, a society where there are no positive criteria, and that takes too long. Any other argument after nine years of so-called. There's really no basis for democratic change here. The only conclusion that can be done here is that there was no will, that there was no thought, that the priorities were different, such as the completely poor privatisation of everything that existed as a possibility of making something, terriblely high pressures on educational, health and all other workers and people who are in very sensitive areas, setting media bad patterns, by system – the worse, the better – inciting frustration and violence at every step. We are now in trouble – how to cure future Serbian society, because we do not have it now. We have chaos and anarchy and we all witness it. We used to kill ourselves here talking about roof, basic, lateral, secondary, important and irrelevant laws, and look at what it looks like one day in Serbia – you have to thank thousands of euros for something that should be a day-to-day activity; you have to look for a connection to enroll a child in a kindergarten. You can't talk about some things because you'll never be able to get a job in the state of Serbia. You have to be a member of the party in power so you can survive in Serbia. Ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the very important ministry, this is a very sad time. I'm not saying that it's unique or I don't want to say that it's never been worse, but we're the contemporaries of this time that we've got at our disposal and we have nothing to be proud of. This attempt to reform can mean a good move and can mean success as long as one child has a chance, an equal chance, to school, to achieve results, and that the parent knows that the moment that child is sent to school that the child is safe; that the educator also knows that there is a state behind him that will allow him all possible conditions to participate in child maturing. Mr. Minister, will this be the case with the adoption of these laws? Is that how it is now? We have had the opportunity to read the most different research possible, statistics that are not at all bright, how do we say underage children in elementary schools, how are teachers and teachers, so in which way is, unfortunately, a collapsed institution of something that should be incomparable, because it replaces parents in these institutions, and it's being brought down by all those who are a role model in this society, those who think they can buy everything, and they've destroyed everything behind them, they've left a wasteland. These are these changes that have been very current, unfortunately, since 2000. I wouldn't generalize there, there are honest people in and around the government, but they're in insufficient numbers to spend what they are your intention. Tell me, how is it possible for a student to try to kidnap a teacher's diary, and how is it possible that he would take it against her? Also tell me, how is it possible for you to do nothing and have images of violence among children on it? Please tell me, how many members of the M.O.P. will it take to stop drug dealers from entering the schoolyards? Finally, tell me, where will these children be able to work after the completed educational process? I say "educative" because unfortunately it is a very important function, which has once made of us what we are now – educational is lagging behind. You have teachers, professors, school directors, who in the highest number and percent barely patch up the end and who are very often struck by certain political decisions or unless they respect what is the pressure of influential parents, even victims of persecution. This also applies to certain children and certain parents. So whatever you touch, and as far as education is concerned, it's a big problem. Believe me, it's me during a campaign, which I don't want to talk about right now, and I'd really like to talk about, but I was really looking forward to meeting you, and I'd like to introduce you to that situation, because I'd like to hear what you think about it, horrified, and I've really shaken one example of the refugee family to the extreme, but here we have multiple violations of basic human rights, which is the worst of human dignity. The family's name is Macura. In time, because of the Storm, she ran off with her head regardless of Serbia, placed in an object of Shulja rock, husband, wife and three extraordinary children, children for example. A woman does more jobs, irons and clean houses, so that the family has extra income. Her children are on the budget. They're all academic citizens. You know, Mr. Minister, with tears in her eyes she came and asked, "How am I going to be able to pay them the exam now, because they were late to pay and they had to be in debt?" So that's just one example. I would hate to hear the answer – let them not be in debt, let them wait for the money, because those kids have to enroll next year, they have to take exams. Not to tell you what caused it in that family, which lives in 15 squares, in a cave rock facility, on the edges of society. On those margins of society, ladies and gentlemen, there is now a million people. I may have come to this subject in a completely different way, but I'm going to allow myself that kind of freedom, because my colleagues have previously really tried very well to reason on something that should be a reform of this system. We welcome the intention, but I ask you and I want to hear the answer – what about this moment now? What's with the huge number of people now? They're kids, they're teachers, they're parents, it's a whole society. What is also unclear, which is a very significant data, Mr. Obradovic, is why the cost of tuition in Serbia is so high. What is it to say to academic citizens for that enormous cost of tuition really offers? Better working conditions? Better knowledge? I'm not sure. According to research by the Centre for Educational Policies, scholarships for state-level students in Serbia and Croatia are among the most expensive in Europe. I suppose you have this information, too, but he asks Serbia and Serbia to know. At universities in Great Britain, the tuition ranged from £6,000 to £8,000, while in Austria, Italy, Spain, Portugal, the year of study costs between 600 and 1,450 euros. In France, there are state colleges that are free of charge for foreigners. Students only pay taxes from 130 to 800 euros. So, according to Vanja Ivosevic of the Centre for Educational Policies, the average salary in Serbia is 385 euros, according to the school fee 750. The most expensive tuition is at the Faculty of Architecture of 240,000 dinars, which is around 2,500 euros. The difference is that in most Western European countries tuition covers textbooks and other study prices. There are no free textbooks for freshmen in Serbia. Reports of exams and other administrative costs shall be paid. Since I would like to leave Mrs. Pop-Lazic in good time, because I know she has a lot to say, here's what I'm going to end up with, and hopefully we're going to get answers: how do you think you can arrange such an important area as is enlightened in the state of Serbia and deal with something and with those people who are supposed to replace you and all of us today? I think what I have last cited as an argument further creates terrible frustration within every family, if not every third in Serbia, in which every average family actually survives. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-18-0.u24502	You left Mrs. Pop-Lazic for five minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-18-0.u24503	There, and this lack of time in some way represents a handicap for all of us to deal with such an important topic, and I have to protest on behalf of the SRS that in these conditions we are talking about this law, as we talked yesterday about very important laws under conditions that do not allow citizens to hear what these laws bring to them, and of course they are familiar with the views of their representatives. A little something to say in five minutes, although I intended to have a longer observation and to use the principle debate to comment on the conditions and circumstances in which we passed this law. There will be an opportunity to talk in particular about individual solutions. I just want to draw attention to the minister and take advantage of that opportunity, given that we were able to read in the explanation, and many colleagues called for the fact that 21.9% of the older than 15 years were without a primary school, that almost 24% of the population was only with primary school and that we were wondering what caused it, what led to it. This law sees it as a kind of strategy in the field of education. Is it just poverty, negligence, ignorance, whether there's no clear strategy and anything like that? Let's compare those numbers to some years ago 10, 20, 30, 50, anyway. Today 10% of the population, statistics say, lives in total economic poverty, but 90% of the population, perhaps even more, lives unfortunately in cultural poverty, which passes, we have to admit, in spiritual misery. Why is that? Because of the moral crisis, because of the lack of cultural patterns, the system of values, and all of this is what should be fixed or done through this strategy or through that previous law that we had yesterday, the law on culture, is kind of precise. So here I am, because time is passing quickly, to remind you, even though you know it, that in the last decades of the 19th century, attending a four-year elementary school was mandatory, there were state and private schools, high schools that were obliged to care – what: Serbia, morality and character. These are the values that many of us today or those who create laws dare not bring into our laws. Society cannot develop unless there is a clearly defined system of values on which its moral and civilizational structure rests, unless it has a precisely profiled and patiently created cultural pattern. I had a desire to quote Slobodan Jovanovic, who and how he dealt and constantly talked about the need to enlighten individuals, create democratic institutions, wake up public spirit, follow-up, humanism outcomes, but I will only indicate what he insisted on. Public awareness, moral education, spiritual self-development. I will leave a quote for some of the amendments, because they will answer many of the questions that fellow MPs have asked. I can't blame you and the Ministry for being rogobatan, which is the legal norms of the rogue. The Legislative Secretariat would really have to take care of that, because language is not the net of what is irrelevant. Because if it did, the Montenegrins wouldn't have introduced two more letters, nor would the Bosniaks have introduced their Bosniak language. I'll remind you, in that language and Cyrillic letter today 60 people in the world, I mean, first of all, the Cyrillic letter, 60 people using Cyrillic to write in their own language.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-18-0.u24504	Mr. Shami, do you want a word? Here, you have a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-18-0.u24505	The DSS today said everything she wanted to say about the proposals of these laws. We'll continue the debate in detail. I just called to do a few things. First, what Mr. Magda said came to the address of the Education Committee, my God, more papers supporting this law, it's simply not true. We have received three documents, one by representative unions, stating the union's objections, one by the Educational Association, which again lists objections to the law and one document by independent publishers related to this other law, where they also have some objections. All those papers were received by the members of the Committee, nothing more than that we got. That's one thing. Secondly, Mr Magda said he did not understand our remark that the law is ideological, because, my God, there is a country's definition of European integration, or our definition of European integration, as it has been expressed. I agree, it's not a dispute. There is a state definition that Serbia wants to join the EU and that nothing is disputed. However, this definition is not ideology. Ideology is every idolatry. This is about where and where we should and where we shouldn't, growing an unnecessary idolatry, and that's what I was talking about. This has nothing to do with our desire to join the EU. Finally, Mrs. Comic, I'm sorry she's not here, I wouldn't talk about beauty or knowledge. I see, though, a positive shift in DS, they finally admitted it's Saturday. It's something else. It's not our problem today is Saturday. It's no problem what's 40 degrees or what's afternoon. They voted me singing for this law that he was good. The trouble is that the law on the basics of education and education is not right.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-18-0.u24506	Since all MPs are from the list of parliamentary groups and in accordance with Article 93. The Rules of Procedure have exhausted their possibilities for participation in the debate, Mr. Minister, do you want to give the final word at the end of this part? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-18-0.u24507	I think right now, at the end of this debate today, there is a need to say a word more than that opening address, especially that there have been a lot of questions raised during today's debate. Before that, I'd like to thank all of you for your patience and goodwill that today on Saturday, July 17th, under these conditions, we're talking about education, to you who are here, but I suppose the other colleagues had other things to do. To tell you the good news at the beginning, I got a text message from the president of the Union of Educational Workers' Union that our young physicists won the contest in Mexico. I had to mention this because Leonardo sent it to me in the last part of the day, probably watching that transmission of ours, so I'd be in a position to pass it on to you. I have to say that today I've been in a position to hear a lot of interesting things about the education system, but unfortunately I have to say a lot of things that can't be called interesting. Some of them were, I understand that, and party-motivated, once skipped, some of the colleagues were not familiar enough with what was the topic of the agenda, and some unfortunately because of their new political position they used that attitude to forget what happened yesterday. As far as we're concerned at the Ministry of Education, and me as Minister, it's an answer to the question of colleague Ragush, yes, there's a good will for us to change the system, but not to change the system in a way that we don't need anything before, and everything will be ideal for us. On the contrary, let's try to create a system where we can use what's good, develop and change what's bad. We do not think that we are neither the smartest nor the best, that we will succeed during one term of office from 2000 to 2012 in order to solve everything. We will certainly be able to raise more questions, because there is not one minister or one government that has succeeded in the field of education to achieve more significant results in a short period of time. Everybody knows that. Why they forget, that's another question. We have one fundamental problem – if there are no children, our story about the education system will be an empty story. There must be more children, the demographic situation in Serbia needs to change, and we need to change education and a system of values. The system of values in a way to change the attitude towards education, to change the position of education in society, and then it will certainly be easier to solve a lot of other subjects. There's no reason to complain there was no public debate. We respected the procedure established by the government or government before us. If governments before us respected the procedure in the way it was regulated by government documents, we respected it, if they didn't respect it before us, neither did we. Now meet each and every one of you, where he's been, what he's been doing, and if we've respected the procedure. As far as I'm concerned, I think there's only one number of colleagues here who have the moral right to criticise this text the way he criticized it. Others say that more politics for the sake of it, but I'll show you why I'm saying it. We had a public debate and we had people who wanted to participate in the public debate, we had numerous confirmations of that public debate and I announced it today. There's nothing to hide, there's nothing to hide. We wanted to offer solutions that could make things better for us. We've also been having talks with the unions since the unions are being taken as some kind of confirmation of the position that we haven't talked. Here, the president of a union sent me this message, so he wouldn't talk to me. I'm sure he wouldn't let me know. For several conversations with them, we opened and closed certain questions. And you'll see, there's a letter that we sent them, 60 or 70% of the things they've asked us as open questions we've solved. Where's the main stone of thinking about unions? The financing issue to be applied 2014/2015 the year; then it comes out in public with numbers that are absolutely not founded. For the past year as a minister, I have never come out and said there is an surplus of 1,000, 2,000, 3,000 or now I hear 17,000 people, and I know representatives of unions who criticized their colleagues when they go public on the basis of which criteria could determine whether they even exist. (The Faith of Radeta, from the place: You said five.) No, I didn't, I never mentioned the number of people who could be extra. I said there's a surplus, which we all know at the Ministry, union representatives, because since August of last year, together with the people in the Treasury, we've entered the income structure. We wanted to determine who and how much he was doing, what and how much he was receiving, and then we came up with the frantic data for us that there are people who are physically in a situation that are barely alive compared to the payout fund, that there are teachers and teachers who charge for the same job certain amounts of money, that there are more secretaries per institution, that there are people who haven't finished school, they don't have a proper degree of professional training, and they're getting paid and they're working, that there are more assistants, directors, than the regulations condition, that there's a lot of other illogicalities, and we've started to solve everything ever since. I'm not saying that we did it, but we started to solve it, because in education nothing can be solved overnight and the main problem of dealing with unions is this issue that will be applied 2014/2015. A year. But we said, that's what I told them publicly, and I'll tell you -- we're not you, nor me as a minister, nor this ministry, nor this government is anyone who wants to break the back of Serbia's education system. We need education. If we determine in the years that come through certain projects and pilot programs and apply that this system is not good, of course we will give it up or we will make adjustments. After all, if you've looked closely at a member of the law that refers to this, you've seen that there are a lot of corrective factors. The same goes for the school network. Someone objected to us not to worry about tradition. That's not true. Even the pedagogical tradition is listed as one of the criteria for establishing the network of schools, because we don't want to undermine anything that's happened so far, but we want to step forward. We want to, and as Minister, I said, that and I think that the government policy, we want to be in step with the world, with everything that's being applied in the world, and it's good, but let's not forget about Dosite, Wolf, Nejegos, and many others, Milankovic, Tesla and others. Now that I start counting, I'd probably leave out a lot of people, because there are a lot of people who are part of our education system and our values. It's a very simple thing. Whether some people want to hear it or not, they don't want to hear it or just hear it the way it suits them, it's not on us. We left the director's structure the way it was. Mr Samardzic, I must disappoint you, the content of the provisions of the Education and Education Law relating to the selection of directors is no less than the 2006 proposal when your minister was doing this job, no less. If it was a lot then and now it's a lot, if it was small then and now it's small. So you probably weren't familiar with it, because if you were familiar, you wouldn't be saying this. Just for the sake of knowledge, when it comes to education abroad, after a few years, ask yourself why not before, now for the first time this school year we have the rule on extra work abroad, we boast that we have a diaspora that has three million people, and unfortunately we have three thousand and 580 children who are part of the education system and a small number of countries and 29 teachers on permanent work and one number of additional ones. There's got to be a lot to change. That part of the law is small because we have a rule that we first passed after a few years. Here, my colleague says even about a decade. There's no saying patriotism. True, but it was neither in the 2003 law nor in 2004, nor in the 2006 law. Did you think of that word later? Wait, when you call the minister, then the minister is obliged to give an answer. Here's Law 2003, here's your change from 2006, no patriotism. Whether it's an ex-post mind or something, you can judge for yourself, but there isn't. If it's not then, then why are you nagging us for not putting it on? Besides, you know how many comments there were after 2000 on the content of the word "patriotism". There are traditions, and there are Serbian traditions, and there are Serbian cultures, there are also Serbian history, when you look at the structure of the National Educational Council, so you look at who makes up the National Educational Council, does anyone think about education that can be questioned that what else is part of our history can be taught in this country? Considering, of course, what the involvement of minorities in the creation of this history is, but it's really not right to call us because of what you didn't even apply when you were doing this job in this area. You had three ministers. I haven't mentioned any of my predecessors to this day in a single word, and I've been a minister for a year. But everything has a measure. You've crossed the line today. Yes, you've crossed the line and that's what you should know. I could understand you talking about systemic differences, you don't like how this advice was chosen, I can understand that. But putting the state of education into this ministry's heart, and having three ministers before that, it's really unfair. That's where we differ, that's the system of values. We'll take a careful look at all 220 amendments at the Ministry. Whatever amendment improves the education system, we're really going to apply it, there's no party, there's not going to be one. There's no money, unfortunately, for longer, and it's not a situation now but years ago. I actually think we may have missed the chance when it came to privatization that part of the funds was aimed at building objects and investing in education. I think that's when one chance was missed, and now we have to figure it out. Someone asked if we had a strategy? We have a strategy and we really want to pass laws that will improve the system and make changes to the law on higher education, and bring short-term and long-term measures. Now we have 103,000 people in primary and secondary education and about 20,000 in higher education. When it comes to higher education, it's practically known, I have to mention this because there have been some issues that pop out of the subject, but they're part of today's debate. There were also words about Petnica, and about Bologna, and about higher education, and I want to say, in the end, why, because we're going to be in a position to say a lot about the content of the law through the amendments anyway. When it comes to higher education, the state has through standards, through the work of the accreditation committee defined exactly how many employees there are in relation to the programs being implemented in colleges and in terms of space, however you like, all standards are met and that number is now optimal. If there are more employees, they will objectively have to share the fate of such a condition, but here we have a factual state. When it comes to primary and secondary education, we have about 103,000 people. We have one or two percent natural spills a year. We've calculated that we have several thousand people who have one of the conditions for retirement. It is our intention to try to create funds in the Government of the Republic of Serbia for an economic and social programme and offer a number of people who want to, if they want to, leave the system so that they can receive new people and employ a number in adult education. To create a situation where we don't have any extras, but who knows in advance, if we don't have kids. Because if we don't have children and money, then the average, the number of children relative to the number of teachers and all other things are objectively questioned, but we have a plan and we'll work on it. As far as we're going to do it, we're going to figure it out together here and in some other places where education is being talked about. We're trying to be truly socially responsible to the government, as much as anyone accepts it or doesn't accept it. Why am I saying that? If we hadn't changed the Law on Higher Education, last year, there would have been far fewer students enrolled. I must remind you, honourable fellow MPs, that the degree of passing of students in Serbia at universities was from 22% to 28%. If we hadn't changed the Law on Higher Education, taking into account the October test deadline, that figure would have been slightly higher than that. We reduced the number of points for enrollment and a large number of students were enrolled. There are now over 100,000 students on the burden of budgets. Where you'll better divide the socially responsible government, if it's not that big a number. We're the only ministry or one among the rarest, not to be the only one, who before the new year was part of the surplus funds that we had thanks to one protocol and the way we worked at the Ministry of Education, shared with employees, part of certain incomes. One of the few ministries. We talk to unions all the time and share what we have, we can't share what we don't have and what we can't. But I'm telling you, we're trying to apply everything objectively. In the very end, in fact, Bologna and Petnica were mentioned. I have to go to one and the other. Bologna, whether we like it or not, whether we love Bologna or not, had an impression or content on whether or not to apply the Bologna Declaration, but 46 countries in Europe apply the Bologna Declaration or is part of the Bologna Process, 46 countries, of which 27 EU member states and 19 are not. Bologna has already become a system of values and has been given an assessment of the first decade of application of the Bologna Declaration in Luven. A new decade has been opened, a decade since the creation of a higher education space in Europe. The others are interested in how Bologna is applied. In Brisbane last year, there was a 44-nation rally. America is interested, I'm saying this because I heard it from people who spoke at a conference on the Bologna Forum the last day of the Bologna Conference, there was now also in UNESCO in Paris about that word. Everyone is interested and a little bit watched and what others are doing, because everyone wants to be first and better in the field of education, to find their place in the 21st century, for centuries of knowledge. Three years from now, we've received a score of 3.8 from the Bologna Declaration. I think it's a very good grade, but that doesn't mean we shouldn't keep working. So far there's been one order of criteria, now there's going to be another. Four other international conferences – 2012, 2015, 2018 and 2020 are planned, will likely go to the second grade of higher education in the countries of application of the Bologna Declaration and the creation of a European space. We have Professor Vera Dondo, who's a member of the Bologna Group Forum, who's following everything we need to know. This is what I'm telling you, we're not behind, people. They started to mention us positively, whether it's because of us in this ministry or because of the predecessors, it doesn't matter. But Serbia is no longer someone mentioned negatively, on the contrary, who began to mention us positively. Naturally, we'll work on it. Five; a few days ago I received from the director of that facility a paper called the income and cost structure. And I was surprised, I have to admit, because then I saw that this ministry funded only 9.7% in 2008, and in 2007, it was 16.37%. Make your own conclusion whether it's possible that one ministry that finances someone with 9.7% could shut down the Petnica research station. Of course he can't. Not that we can't, but we won't. We've talked to the director, and we're going to finance all the programs that are part of what we do in the education system. What are the motives of mentioning the Ministry of Education in this context, it remains for both me and you to conclude. Anyway, I've been in a situation today as Minister of Education, despite this weather, so sparring, to hear a lot of useful things about the education system and the importance of education. I would like this positive atmosphere that was here today, regardless of the individual steps, to be passed on to others. I'm totally convinced and I'm standing there, until we change most of society's view of the importance of education, education can't take huge steps, and in the meantime we're making a system. As the soldiers say - and any system is better than that there is no system. But we don't want to have any system, we want to have one functional, economical, quality system, which these children who are coming or now within education really are capable of being able to look for and find a job with that knowledge. We can't solve everything. The state of the economy is not something we can do, but we can have a significant impact. At the level of secondary education every year, we plan to enroll students in the first grade of high school together with the labour market, the National Employment Service and employers. With colleges it's different, they have accredited programs for a number of years and these programs after accreditation can't be changed. We have seen and placed a focus on secondary vocational education, advice and adult education, so that through those two areas in the years in which they come try this vast number of people, you have all quoted that number, we are all aware of how bad it is for Serbia to change. Because experts from the World Bank say Serbia can only develop on condition that the educational level of the population is increased and labour productivity is increased. With these solutions and the laws that we're going to make, we're going to try to solve this first issue, and productivity and the economic situation at all is not just a matter of this ministry, as much as we want to help, but we're going to help create educated people and help them with what they want. If they do, so they can work, if they want to continue their studies, to be successful in their studies. This is the beginning for us one time, because we now have these two laws, and then we have two more and two more in September later. And finally, since this other law remains somehow always in another plan, and it doesn't deserve it. We've really had conversations with all the publishers. A colleague noticed that when I said they were doing it, right, they participated in it, of course we were in the ministry being someone who ran and directed everything, not wanting to bring a private publisher, any, and especially a public publisher, into a subordinate situation. Equality, equality, the same conditions for all. I have to tell you, we're working very well with them, I don't know what kind of, I don't know, direct or indirect contacts you have with them, but we're working very well with them. The best evidence is this project of free textbooks. We made a deal with the publishers. We made a deal. We provided them with information from the teachers of the lower classes, what teachers chose. I have to tell you that there were 10 publishers, 44 sets and no one questioned the choice of teachers. We shared that information, we gave them the opportunity to see for themselves, and then we talked about this project and this law. I'm saying, the only thing where we're different, besides that controversial article 15, because we're really technically missing a part of the text, is the license issue. As minister, I think there should be licenses. It must be known who deals with the issue of publishing textbooks. Some publishers think you shouldn't. All right, that's where we part ways. But again, they'll be involved in making a regulation on the content of that license. So we really don't have anything controversial here either. They themselves say that they will share time with regard to publishing textbooks to this law and after this law, with all possible shortcomings of this law, because there is no law that is ideal, but they agree that we can change. Let me tell you right now, if we apply. Since, if you have carefully looked at the transitional and final provisions of this law, you have seen some provisions applied since school in 2010 and 2011, some 2014-2015, because for certain solutions in this law we need time, we need professional teacher education, we need to make some preparations. Of course, for all children with special needs, we will try to solve their needs. Next year, at the end of this year, we need to get a loan from the EIB, a few dozen million euros just for primary and secondary education. Part of it, not part of it, but what happens to investment and equipment, so of course we will for all students and schools in Serbia. The essence of this bill is to increase the number of children in primary and secondary schools, to reduce the number of special schools, to make more and more children part of regular education, to change the system of values. In the end, as a parent, what I think about myself, I think about you, as much as we try to talk positively or negatively about the education system, we in the education system can do nothing ourselves if we don't have support and parents. It is a system of values that is fantastically important, but parents must be part of the process of education. I'm also saying what I said when we represented a UNICEF programme to prevent violence in schools, because we're working with them on it, I said ask, parents, my children how it was today at school, what they were learning and if they read anything. It is tragic. It's tragic when a student raises his hand to a teacher, because unfortunately that's the wrong system of values, as tragic as another wants to stab his stomach with a knife because of his cell phone, as it did a few months ago. But it's part of the system that exists and I hope it stays behind us, because we at the Ministry of Education want to bring all that stuff to an end and solve it. But I'm telling you quite frankly, and you know it that you do in education, if there are 905,000 children, if there are 1,815 schools, objectively by number, these are phenomena that are in the trail, but they get that kind of importance that you say we don't care about all of our education, we don't care about school, which is not true. Because a lot of kids, perfectly normal in the education system, who have a system of values in the family and where they have their own system, they finish schools. I'm sorry, we have 85% of the children who enrolled in the first grade of high school received or entered one of the three desired profiles they chose. There was no problem. For others there will be places in schools compared to the knowledge they have achieved. That's how it's always been, except in the changes in the system, some things change, so let's forget what happened before. Anyway, thanks for these attitudes about education. We will continue the conversation when it comes to the law in particular.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-18-0.u24508	The word is Mr. Shami. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-18-0.u24509	Thank you. Mr. Minister, first of all, the minister does not pass the law, the law is passed by the Assembly. In this assembly, the DSS MPs noticed that there was no word for "patriotism" in the text of the law, and we proposed that you enter it through the amendment in some places. It's up to you to assess whether you think you should or not. Secondly, if you're asking me if then the ministers for whose ministry have passed the previous laws, Mr. Knezevic and Mrs. Colic, have made a mistake not putting it into the law, they have made a mistake, it doesn't matter which parties they are from. Third, no DSS MP has in any way blamed the current Ministry of Education for the state of education. I don't think anybody said that, every normal person knows that education is an inert system and that what you do in education is good or bad shows your results for about 7-8 to 10 years.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-18-0.u24510	Thank you, Mr. Minister, to you and your associates. I thank you, too, for your participation in the debate. I am concluding a joint principled search on the draft law on the basis of the education and education system and the draft law on textbooks and other teaching tools. We'll be working on Monday at 10:00. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing the session of the 11th extraordinary session of the National Assembly in 2009. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 100 MPs. In order to accurately determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert identification cards into the MPs' units. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 85 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that more than one third are present and there are working conditions. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Borislav Pelevic and Srdjan Spasojevic. According to Article 88(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I have called for today's session, in addition to the representatives of the promoter, Dr Oliver Dulic, Minister of Environment and Spatial Planning, also present at Aleksandra Damjanović-Petrović, Assistant Minister, Nebojsa Janjic, Assistant Minister, Ljilja Stanojevic, Assistant Minister, Nenad Tesla, Director of the Republic Geodetic Institute, Željka Jurakić, Director of the Environment Protection Fund and Svetlana Ristić, an independent adviser, who I welcome. We move on to a joint principle search of the 12-15th agenda: – PROPOSALS ON TERMS AND CONSTRUCTIONS, COUNTRY AND CATASTR, SOCIAL STATATION AND FUND FOR THE PROTECTION OF LIFE CENTRAL A CONSTRUCTION I would like to remind you that, pursuant to Article 94, the common principle search is carried out on the 12, 13, 14, and the 15th point of the agenda, and before the opening of the common principle search, I would like to remind you that, in accordance with Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, are five hours, and that is: The Parliamentary Group For European Serbia - one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; the SRS Parliamentary Group - one hour, seven minutes and 12 seconds; the G17 Group of MPs plus - 28 minutes and 48 seconds; the DSS-Vojislav Kostunica Group - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; the Parliamentary Group "Forward Serbia" - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; the SPS-JS Group - 18 minutes; the MEP group LDP - 14 minutes and 24 seconds; the Parliament group Nova Serbia - 10 minutes and 48 seconds; the sending group of minorities - eight minutes and 24 seconds and the PUPS - six minutes. According to Article 93(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, MPs who are not members of any parliamentary group, have the right to speak every one to five minutes. I ask the MPs' groups, if you have not already done so, to file a statement with the order of MPs. I would like to inform you that the parliamentary groups have authorised them to be represented by Parliament MP Siniša Stamenković, MP Milisav Petronijevic – MEP of the SPS-JS, MP Bojan Mladenovic – MEP of the SRS. According to Article 142, paragraph 2. I am opening the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly a common principle search on the Proposal for a Law on Planning of Space and Construction, the Proposal for a Law on State Border and Cataster, the Proposal for a Law on Social Housing and the Proposal for a Law on the Environment Fund. Does the representative of the promoter Dr Oliver Dulic, the environment minister and spatial planning want a word? Yeah. Here you go. To inform you that Mr. Jovan Nesovic is an authorised representative of the G17 Plus Group. Mr. Mica Rogovic, representing the parliamentary group Forward Serbia. Mrs. Milica Vojic-Markovic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure. I'm opening a search and I gave my word to Mr. Minister, but before that, Mrs. Milica Vojic-Markovic.
