ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-21-0.u24652	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the 11th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009. Based on the official record of the presence, I find that the session is attended by 118 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. Here you go. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 93 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. more than one third of the MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. On Tuesdays and Thursdays, following the opening of the sittings and the establishment of the number of MPs attending the session, and before moving to a further discussion, the session was organised by Article 235(2). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, i.e. the possibility of seeking information and explanations on the basis of Article 235. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the President, or authorised representatives of business groups. Does anyone want to request a notice or an explanation regarding Article 235? National MP Dragan Todorovic was registered in the electronic system. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-21-0.u24653	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am asking first of all the question to the Prime Minister and Foreign Minister – what will be done about the statement by Joseph Ljoveras, head of the European Commission delegation, that the European Commission will begin preparing a feasibility study for Kosovo, which should be admitted to the EU because it has a European perspective. Only countries, not AP, are received in the EU. What does the government think after this? We're almost there. All the time you claim that you have thrown all your cards into diplomacy, that in this way you are trying to solve the KIM problem, that you have won a great victory in the UN, you are waiting for the decision of the International Court of Justice in The Hague, and every day you allow Kosovo to continue on and on and on and on and on, it is an unquestionable fact. Take only what happens to Eulex, the mission you accepted, a mission that thanks to Boris Tadic and DS came to KIM, but with only one goal, the goal set by Martti Ahtisaari – to create the institutions of Kosovo, and it is shown every day in practice. It is now an attempt to introduce customs between Serbia and Kosovo in every possible way. It is particularly important that the EU lets Serbia know that it can count on EU accession only if the border control with KIM is solid, like any other interstate border. This speaks essentially of your real intentions to admit indirectly, step by step, to the independence of KIM, and all the time you deceive and lie to the citizens of Serbia that you do not accept the independence of KIM – you do not accept publicly, but secretly do everything to accept and cooperate. This is also shown by these two terrorist attacks in southern Serbia, where you, allegedly because of the possibility that terrorists came from the KIM area, co-operate with Eulex. Why with Eulex? There is still Unmik, there is Resolution 1244, for KIM are responsible for the UN? Why do you accept the EU, because that is the goal – to push the UN out and the EU to assume the right to decide on the future KIM status. It's something that's absolutely inadmissible. There's something to be done. What should be done urgently – to ask this question in the Security Council, to get the UN and Unmik back to those positions they were in, and to cancel their hospitality, as it is obvious that this is extremely harmful for Serbia and that they will have lasting consequences. You are making it impossible for future generations that what Serbia has right, which is to return KIM to Serbia's constitutional and legal order, makes it harder and further every day. It's a historical responsibility, but unfortunately you don't have that responsibility, which you show every day.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-21-0.u24654	The word has been given by MP Slobodan Samardzic, an authorised representative of the DSS parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-21-0.u24655	Dear People's MPs, the Honorable Chairman, my question concerns Parliament Speaker Mrs Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic. I'm asking her for a notice and an explanation. Explanation – why has it not put on the DSS Assembly's agenda so far on the draft law establishing the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina? Notification – when will they put this initiative on the agenda? I must remind you that on 24 April of this year, the DSS launched this initiative, it has properly fulfilled its constitutional obligations to launch this initiative. We expected, therefore, to place this important issue on the agenda at the next session. At the Assembly Committee on Constitutional Affairs on 11 May, the DSS representatives referred the question to Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic – do they and when she thinks to put this issue on the agenda? She replied that she would do so immediately after obtaining the government's opinion, which is quite all right. We have waited neatly for all the legal deadlines or better stated all the business deadlines that have expired. Today it is almost three months from our initiative, and this proposal has not been put on the agenda of the Serbian Parliament. According to the Rules of Procedure, under Rule 141 of Article 5, if the deadlines of business do not necessarily have to wait for the Government's opinion to be put on the Assembly's initiative. So, the President of the Assembly overstepped its powers and violated the Rules of Procedure. In other words, it had to be found by the end of the last regular session at the Serbian Parliament. We don't care too much about the issue of internal disputes and disputes within the ruling coalition over the Duke's statutes and the law on determining jurisdiction, that's their business. That's a lot to talk about in public, in the end line from last October to today, it's been almost nine months and we haven't finished the job. Of course there are some very big problems. Of course, we are not particularly interested in that, although it is not uninteresting from a political point of view. We are interested in why the President of the Assembly has become an instrument in the hands of the ruling coalition and the instrument of their enigma and the dispute over the Statute of Vojvodina. So no matter what was happening internally in the ruling coalition, the Constitution, the law, and the Rules of Procedure of this congregation must be respected. This topic must be found on the agenda. We had to discuss this because it is a matter of constitutional and legal constitution of Serbia. The status of Vojvodina is a constitutional issue. The Statute of Vojvodina had to be adopted by a certain deadline. Overstepping is very large, but even more difficult is the fact that it's not even in sight to solve this issue. We are witnessing many maneuvers that the ruling coalition has made in recent months, or to replace this topic with someone else, such as the regionalisation of Serbia, or to simply remove the topic from the agenda, not only the Assembly, but also public opinion. That discomfort is obvious, but she, as I say, doesn't have to commit to the congregation, the congregation has to do its job. That is why I insist that the DSS initiative be included in the Parliament's first regular session, but also get written notice and explanation of Parliament President Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, why this has not been done so far.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-21-0.u24656	The word is made by MP Miroslav Markicevic, deputy president of the NS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-21-0.u24657	Dear Vice-Presidents, honourable fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, I hope that at this point a direct transmission is going, as what was last night, and very important to the citizens of Serbia, is a set of public health laws, as I have been informed since the nights, was broadcast at five o'clock this morning. Given the importance of what I want to ask, do I want confirmation from you, Madam Vice President, whether it's a direct transmission or not? Do we have a direct transmission? Thank you. I wanted to ask one question that I expect to hear and answer from the Prime Minister, Minister of Minority and Human Rights, Minister of the Interior, Minister of Education, and this is about the rights of Serbs in this country. So, if we look at the Balkan political scene, after all the bloody wars and what's happened here, we see that, thank God, I am telling you honestly, the only state of Serbia has remained as far as the ethnic composition of the population in that percentage as before these unnecessary wars. However, it does not amnest anyone, so neither do we here to ask some questions about the rights of Serbs in our own country. In fact, we are witnessing that there are municipalities in the state of Serbia, when I say this I don't mean Kosovo and Metohija, because what rights are Serbs down there I guess the whole world knows, the one who wants to know, I advocate the rights of Serbs in municipalities in the territory of the Serbian state where they are in the minority. What's this about? So, we are witnessing that there are municipalities in the state of Serbia where it has dared the Serbian population from 20% to 30%, such as in southern Serbia, where Serbs are exiled from all authorities and do not participate at all. When it comes to the state level, we have various laws that we positively discriminate against members of national minorities, and for that we all advocate and no one is against it, and this sector, and this set of laws and regulations, and sublegal acts should, if necessary, develop more and more in the direction of European laws and European values, but I ask what is the question of Serbs who are in some municipalities in Serbia? Where are their rights? How is it possible that in some municipalities in the authorities of the state administration, therefore, there are no national flags in state institutions and why does the government tolerate it? Where are their rights and who will take care of their rights? Where's an empty chair for them? Where is positive discrimination for them? We have come here to these days that some, unfortunately, of fellow Members of the People's Parliament mention the handiwork of the division. What kind of message is that to Serbs in their own state? That's what I'd like to hear from the government's authorities, from the Prime Minister to the resolution ministers, and I'd very much like to hear from this minister who, by some chance, is here in the assembly today. So my question is -- what are the rights of citizens of Serbian nationality, one report to be received, in all municipalities in the Serbian state where they are in the minority? There's been a series of cases going on in the last few days, and there's no answer. How is it possible for 713 monuments to be torn down in one place where Serbs are inhabited and there is no answer? The latest, from unofficial sources, the interior ministry answers say – it's not for one night, it's been going on for months. It's an insult to those people out there. Someone wants to say that they haven't gone to their cemetery in months, and they know that Serbs have almost a cult of the dead. Therefore, Mr. Minister, while you are here, to repeat in these 30 seconds what I have left, I demand that you provide me and the National Assembly with a report on the rights of Serbs in municipalities in the state of Serbia where they are minority. Do they respect their national, human, religious and any other rights, the right to employment in the state administration, as is the case with members of national minorities? Are the rights of Serbs in municipalities where they are in minorities respected?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-21-0.u24658	The word has been made by MP Tomislav Nikolic, president of the parliamentary group Forward Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-21-0.u24659	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have one question for the president of the National Assembly, because this can't go any further. It has been before that the government has humiliated, it does not appreciate the National Assembly and MPs, but it seems to me that this composition of the Government is the worst in this regard and that, I say to the MPs of the ruling majority, and not to us of the opposition, we are still fighting and throwing away, but you, dear fellow Members of mine, are only serving to satisfy the number needed to satisfy some of the laws that you are proposing, for which you are grinding your teeth, are being brought. Last night between 21.50 and 22:00, when there were 30 MPs in the hall, and it was the laws on the health of the population, today there are almost a hundred of the ruling majority, as it is the Council of National Minorities, and you want to show how you take care of minorities, and last night you showed that you are not taking care of health. Mr. Tomica Milosavljevic used the ministers' manners from the smallest, and the most powerful political parties in the government, exposed the mockery to the National Assembly, all the MPs, used inappropriate tone, inappropriate words, yelled at the MPs, and at our throwouts from the O.R. so he couldn't speak to us, he said – sorry, I got carried away, I thought I was at a professional meeting. Imagine how he's just talking to his colleagues at a professional meeting. He finally told us - public health and smoking in the halls of the National Assembly, smoke a little more in the halls, you won't be long. Big punk. It's really appropriate for a health minister. He quoted Zoran Djindjic as saying that health must not be the basis for the social decomposition of the population. Two months ago, I was in the village of Vidic, a royal municipality, and I don't have any family ties there, in an old house coffee cooked by a woman bent almost to the ground. I thought it was spinal disease, since the older people in our house are bending to avoid pain. I asked her if it was a spine, she said, "No, I need an artificial knee. For two years now, I've been on the list for 150 years and I've been waiting, and I'd die waiting, I'd die immersed, waiting for an artificial knee. From the Vulovic family, check with the Kings. Rade Miletic of Bajcetina stopped going because he is waiting for a third year to be implanted with an artificial hip. There's a list there, and it's never gonna be a turn because there's no 35,000 dinars to pay for that hip, but it's waiting for them to put in that cement guy who works socially. It's about the health care of the population, the care of those that no one has where to push and stretch. The company G17 plus the cleaning lady in health institutions conditioned to be members of G 17 Plus. This is your relationship with the Republic of Serbia, especially the National Assembly. Tell your ministers, I will no longer tolerate such behavior. To all that he did yesterday, Ms Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic said -- Mr. Minister has very reasonedly explained and has no injuries to the Rules of Procedure. So, whatever you do to the MPs here, there's no harm to the Rules of Procedure. Let's start yelling at the ministers, too. There are wonderful ministers here. They're from another political option, but a man doesn't dare say a hard word to him, because he doesn't deserve it. You can see how he treats us. There are these arrogant ones, I would take advantage of a folk expression, but it may cost me 3,000 dinars, better to keep quiet, which only decibels prove their strength and thus irritate the National Assembly, and for that reason there is no transmission. You're living on us here, and you're letting it go at night. I watched the National Assembly from one to half past three to see what it looked like. Ask these cameramen why the transmissions are static, why it only focuses on the speaker. There's no more walking cameras, that noise in the O.R. to see how many of us there are, what we do for that time, who participates and who doesn't participate. (President: Five minutes, MP. The time to look for information has been used. ) I apologize, Mr. Chiplic, you should have sent Mr. Bradic, he was a representative of the promoter when it came to human rights. You shouldn't have come today. He knows better than to violate human rights than you do.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-21-0.u24660	Do any of the other presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups appear and have the right to exercise their right under Article 235(2)? In the electronic system, I don't have registered names for MPs, which is why I'm asking a question. If none of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, responds for the word, we continue to work. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Borislav Pelevic and Momo Colakovic. Notification of the invitations to the session. According to Article 88(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the President of the National Assembly, Ms Slavica Djukić-Dejanovic, has called for today's session, in addition to the representative of Mr Svetozar Ciplic, the Minister of Human and Minority Rights, to attend the State Secretary at the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights, and for the next item of the agenda, in addition to the representative, Dr Diana Dragutinović, finance minister, to attend and Dr Zoran Ćirović, Assistant Minister, Elizabeth Paunovic, Assistant Minister of Health and Zarko Milicevic, junior advisor at the Ministry of Finance. We move to the 21st point of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on National Councils of NATIONAL MANJINS (principles) You have adopted a bill submitted by the Government. You have received reports from the Committee on International Relations and the Legislative Committee. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I find that the time of debate, by parliamentary groups, is the following: The Parliamentary Group For European Serbia - one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; the SRS parliamentary group - one hour, seven minutes and 12 seconds; the G17 parliamentary group plus - 28 minutes and 48 seconds; the DSS Group - Vojislav Kostunica - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; the Parliamentary Group "Forward Serbia" - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; the SPS Group - JS - 18 minutes; the MP group LDP - 14 minutes and 24 seconds; the Parliament group Nova Srbija - 10 minutes and 48 seconds; the Parliamentary group of minorities - eight minutes and 24 seconds and the PUPS - six minutes. According to Article 93(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, MPs who are not members of any of the parliamentary groups, have the right to speak each and every five minutes. I ask all parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word, with a number of MPs. I would like to inform you that the parliamentary groups have authorised them to represent them on these points of the agenda: MP Kenan Hajdarevic - MP group LDP, MP Miletic Mihajlović - MP group SPS-JS, MP Otto Kišmarton - MP group Forward Serbia, MP Zeljko Tomic - MP group DSS - Vojislav Kostunica and MP Marina Toman - MP SRS. According to Article 142, paragraph 1. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a search in principle. Does the proposing representative Svetozar Ciplic, the minister of human and minority rights, want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-21-0.u24661	Dear MPs, honourable MPs, we are in front of a principled debate on the law on national councils of national minorities. For the first time in the constitutional and legal order of the Republic of Serbia, the law was unfortunately only announced in 2002. Following the adoption of the Law on Freedom and Protection of National Minorities, the SRJ Law on National Councils was to be passed at the time. Unfortunately, for less or more justified reasons, only this government has managed to formulate a law on national councils of the national minorities. Since 2006, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia has introduced, among other things, a new institute with a special chapter, i.e. special grouped provisions in the Constitution, which together represent an institution of minority self-government. In this way, national councils are envisaged to represent a mechanism that would allow citizens of the Republic of Serbia to implement minority rights through minority self-government through the constitution. What is significant, the minority self-government is not only the right of national minorities to independently look after the Constitution of guaranteed rights, but at the same time the responsibility of national minorities to form and select national councils independently look after the rights guaranteed by the Constitution. In the environment, countries that have national advice as experience have shown that, regardless of the degree of minority self-government, the position of national minorities can be seen in a qualitative shift forward. The creation of this proposal, which is very important, of this specific law, consisted of two phases – the first phase in which experts and the second phases involved representatives of all selected national councils. In other words, what I can confirm is that, with more or less deviations, this bill is also a consensus among selected national councils, or representatives of national minorities. There are several main flows related to this law, i.e. several important features that this law, which all of us who tried to formulate solutions, wanted to make the law as effective as possible, and national advice as responsible and as better a mechanism for members of national minorities as possible, in order to realise our constitutional rights. First, given that we have 16 selected national councils, but that we also have 28 national minorities, the first question that was raised is the issue of mutual difference, not cultural, not ethnical, among national minorities, but the differences that probably led to no one even wanting to get involved in writing the law on national councils. These are differences in numbers and population. With that in mind, we have come to address the most important issue, and that is the question of the choice of national councils. The first and basic question, both the first and the basic principle, was national advice, as an expression of the free will of members of the national minorities, should be chosen and elected in a direct manner. The assumption of this is special voter lists. Special ballots have always been a particularly delicate issue. This delicate issue has been discussed with representatives of all national minorities and on the basis of international conventions, on the basis of consultations with representatives of international organisations dealing with the protection of human rights, based on the norms we have foreseen, there is no doubt that the formation of special electoral lists does not endanger the constitutional position of national minorities or their civil rights. Much more important than this is the fact that national councils have accepted the establishment of special electoral lists, and it is particularly important that the application to a special electoral list formed for each national community is not an obligation, as well as that not applying to a special electoral list does not constitute a loss of any constitutional freedom or rights guaranteed to minorities. On the other hand, with the awareness that there are also national minorities who were not ready or were not willing in the larger part to go to direct elections just fearing, having certain fears of special voter lists, we have provided for a mechanism that unless a special electoral list is established in a legal manner, such national minorities go to the electoral elections. In other words, the electoral system, which is very specific, but which is extremely clear and hopefully efficient, involves the formation of special electoral lists and national communities, national minorities who enroll more than 50% of their members who have the right to vote, go to direct elections, and those national minorities who do not do so go to the electoral elections. This system, I repeat, has been accepted by members of all national minorities. The Ministry of Human and Minority Rights, as well as the Government of the Republic of Serbia, are aware that this election system, which has not been checked by us so far, has not had any practice with it, requires special attention and delicate access to electoral actions, and precisely because of this fact, because we are aware of the possible problems, we have foreseen the adoption of technical electoral acts to be completed, clarify and specify the electoral actions that are needed, starting with the formation of a special electoral list, through its monitoring and updating, to election actions, whether it is about direct elections, whether it is about the electoral actions being carried out in the electoral system. The electoral system has been modified in this direction that candidate support must be certified before the state authorities and thus guaranteed by whoever signed it for the credibility of the support. In addition to the way we choose, what is very important are explanations. We were in a legal situation to write a law which, by its nature, is an exception, as is the minority self-government, as the Constitution states, an exception to the general constitutional rule. She's an extra guarantee, she's a special system. In other words, it meant general systems, such as education, health care, official use of language and letters, information, we must prescribe what kind of system, such competences, which will implement constitutional standards. This is also in the legal and technical sense of a very, very difficult task, and I hope that we have done this task as lawyers both honestly and honestly, and that we have managed to reach almost all of the capacities that the Constitution has guaranteed in the provisions concerning the rights of national minorities to national minorities. The problem in formulating the provisions concerning jurisdiction is, above all, the fact that in certain areas of social life laws have not been passed. that the laws of the previous constitutional system were in force, or in other words that there was no harmonisation of constitutional and legal order, legal order with the 2006 Constitution. On the other hand, we also had a situation where laws were passed, system laws in certain areas, and that their writing went at the pace behind the writing of laws on national councils. It is very important that we also accept the fact that this bill has passed the verification of the national minorities themselves, that, on the basis of the participation of national councils, we have a consensus on the way of the elections, which was the most prominent, and on the authority, and I note that the Constitution has guaranteed participation or participation in the decision-making or participation in the decision-making of those issues guaranteed by national minorities, and that the greatest number of competences is actually merely participation in the decision-making, not the decision-making itself. And that, finally, such a bill in its working version has gone to confirm the experts involved in the United Nations, the Council of Europe, the European Commission's protection of human rights and has received an assessment that, as far as the region is concerned, as far as all those states that have national councils and the Constitution are guaranteed minority rights, in fact, a law that is a leader. All that remains is to see and to help the realisation of this law run uninterrupted. What is most important, and I deeply believe that this law is in both its legal and its political meaning the law that will serve the Republic of Serbia, and that it is one of the few laws in the field of human rights which, by connecting both procedural and material provisions, is actually a law that provides for a mechanism for the direct enjoyment of human rights. Hence, I believe that the debate will also be interesting, and what I particularly believe, after the adoption of this law, anyone who comes to Serbia will see a model of constitutional guarantee and legal realization of minority rights that do not exist in Europe, in particular in its efficiency and in its fullness.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-21-0.u24662	Does the rapporteur of the Committee on International Relations, MP Miletic Mihajlovic, chairman of the Committee, want a word? No, I don't. ) Does the rapporteur of the Legislative Committee, MP Vlatko Ratkovic, want a word? No, I don't. ) Does National MP Milica Vojic-Markovic, who issued an opinion at the session of the Committee on International Relations, want a word? Yeah. Here you go. The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojic-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-21-0.u24663	Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, the Democratic Party of Serbia has not disputed for one single moment that this law had to finally be found before MPs because it is practically one in a series of those laws that have long been discussed and long been under way. Since 2002, when the Law on the Protection of the Rights and Freedom of National Minorities was passed, a lot of drafts have really been made so far. I know that drafts have been made and are in line with national minorities, that there is an opinion of the Council of Europe on one such draft that says that the draft is good and that it needs to be elaborated. It's been done since 2002 on this law, and it's perfectly fine to finally meet her before us. Finally, the 2006 Constitution of the Republic of Serbia also gives a very wide range of rights and freedoms of national minorities, and on the basis of what the Constitution predicted Serbia eventually became a leader towards the rights and freedoms of national minorities it gives in the region. I underline, the DSS does not dispute the need for this law to be passed, but what is problematic for the DSS is that this law in many of its provisions is in line with the Constitution. He's anti-constitutional in many of his provisions. Also, it does not recognise the laws that have been regularized in the Republic of Serbia, which are regularly passed in this parliament, which remain in force, have not been suspended. So those laws have to be respected. It is controversial for the DSS, disrespect for the constitution and disrespect for the laws that exist in this country. On the Committee on International Relations, I asked Mr. Minister and it was very important to me that he replied, to explain to me the way this law was brought into line with the other ministries in the government and to answer me how the government voted, how the members of the government had declared this law. Why did I ask that? It's just amazing to me that the Ministry of Culture has forgotten that there is a Law on Broadcasting, which is still in force in this country, has not been suspended, and this law is in direct contradiction with this law. Is it possible that the Ministry of Finance, for example, did not notice one part of this law, where it is said that national councils can form companies? National councils are, according to the bill, budget users. Budgetary users, according to the laws of this country, cannot form companies. Is it possible that the Justice Ministry does not say a single word for a clear violation of the constitution when it is said that citizens of Serbia, members of national minorities, should declare their belonging to a particular national minority. It's directly contrary to what the Constitution says in Article 75, and it's amazing to me that the Ministry of Justice is only on that part, and there's a lot of things to point out, it doesn't say a single word. According to what I know, the Serbian government has given a negative opinion on this law. I was denied by the minister, he said that everyone gave a positive opinion and that most of the problems in alignment were the laws that were not passed, and they were just being prepared, not in an apparent conflict with the laws that exist in this country. In the end, what is amazing to me, the government voted unanimously on the counter-constitutional proposal. Is it possible that in one country, and the Republic of Serbia is considered a normal country, for a single-regular country, the government of the country is destroying the country and the system in the country, voting for a completely unconstitutional proposal? I can't say because I belong to a parliamentary group whose entire parliamentary group, the minister who was then judge of the Constitutional Court, forced people out of parliament who went completely regularly in the elections and were members of this parliament and I am simply afraid that he is continuing his career in the same direction. He broke the Constitution, or should I say he interpreted it very personally, to be nice, and continues the personal interpretation of the Constitution in this case. The DSS doesn't want or is ready to keep quiet about it. The violation of the Constitution of a country, the countries of the Republic of Serbia in this case, must be made public in the Serbian parliament. That's why I have singled out my opinion on that committee, and I have the right to say that in front of the MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-21-0.u24664	The word has Minister Svetozar Ciplic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-21-0.u24665	It is very clear that a large number of exhibitions will open up large legal dilemmas, especially since we who participated in this first had to realise that this law is a system that the law must formulate a subsystem, a system above other systems, a system of exceptions. Is it unconstitutional for someone to declare their national identity? Yeah, only if he doesn't, he's being forced. In my presentation, I explained very clearly that enrolling in a special electoral list is the free will of every member of the national minority. No one shall lose any right under this law in the event that that voter list is not entered. At the same time, since it is a personal, private, constitutionally guaranteed will to express itself in this way, there is no doubt that such a statement is in accordance with the Constitution. On the other hand, the special voter list does not have to be formed in those elements and in the way the law provides. In other words, a national minority who does not form a polling list, or over 50% of its members, has declared to want to go to the electoral elections. There is no necessary mechanism in this law. Usually a clear norm may be a dilemma, but what all the dilemmas need to understand is the very attitude of members of the national minorities, that they had nothing against such a solution, that they agreed with it, and if you will, they insisted on it. So no one has the obligation to declare their nationality. That's right. No one can forbid anyone to make the same personal claim. These are the provisions of this law when it comes to special electoral lists. There's no dilemma. Maybe we didn't get along very well on the International Relations Committee. When opinions were referred to, we did not get negative opinions, but we received opinions about how certain issues should be resolved, as well as a large number of draft laws. Thus, especially in the bill of law, i.e. in the draft law on national councils of minorities, there was a dilemma from individual resolutions at the level of experts, advisers and co-workers from the ministries about what should be done and what should be done. Each resolution ministry shall have the right and obligation to accept individual proposals or objections or not. If he doesn't accept them, he has the right and the obligation to explain why he didn't accept them. The procedure has been applied in a small number, I repeat to a small number of objections when it comes to the law, as has been the case with other draft laws that parliament has already adopted in this session. There was no political opposition to this law. It was exactly what I suggested in the opening statement, which is that one law exception, by nature and by raid of rights as a law exception, cannot be in agreement and cannot have the same solutions as the laws that are general, general. That's why he and the law are the exception. That's the logic of the law. It's a notorious thing since the Roman Law, that the special law and the provisions of the special law derivate the provisions of the general law, and that the two laws of the same legal force cannot be contrary to each other. They can have different solutions. That's where this rule is from. We were really struggling with some things, especially those laws that were passed just before the 2006 Constitution, so they couldn't even establish the fact, or certain rights that the 2006 Constitution mentioned. That's the fact. We couldn't ignore those rights since the Constitution mentioned them. One of them is the right in the field of information. From here I believe that I am slowly and painting the problems that we have encountered, above all in the legal-technical aspect that we had in the course of writing and harmonising the solution.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-21-0.u24666	In the electronic system is the application of the National MP, Milice Vojic-Markovic. By accident? Thank you. Do they want the word of the president, or representatives of the parliamentary groups from the smallest to the greatest? The president or the authorised representative of the PUPS parliamentary group? No, I don't. ) The President or the Authorised Representative of the Minority Group? No, I don't. ) President or Vice-President of the New Serbia Parliamentary Group? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Miroslav Markicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-21-0.u24667	Dear Vice-President, Mr. Minister, the political position of New Serbia and my human being is that my son Vladimir does not need any right for hair or for Iot to have any Zoltan, Mehmet, Joseph in this country. I think with this attitude I express the attitude of 99% of the Serb people. Nothing is questionable about these national councils of minorities. I understand this law, first of all, is not going to tell the electoral law on the councils of national minorities, but that's how it works out the way their rights are regulated, or how they're going to choose their representatives in the councils of national minorities. I must tell you, Mr. Minister, there are members of all the national minorities in New Serbia who, thank God, live in our country. In a municipality in your Vojvodina, where 83% of Serbs are, I am proud to say that Istvan Nadj, popular Beli, president of the municipal board. It kind of gives me the right to ask you some questions. I want you to answer because, let me put it this way, my creamy question for a few months, I've asked all the ministers. You will be forgiven if you do not know the answer to this question. The Minister of Commerce didn't know what the price of a single energy source was. I ask the question, are the human rights of members of the national minorities heating up on gas compromised? Where's the Energy Agency? Where's the Monopoly Prevention Commission? Where's the Ministry of Energy? Where are national consumer advice or what is it called? They all receive salaries from the budget, like we MPs, like you, Mr. Minister, and no one wants to answer. So, of the 228,000 households in Serbia that use gas as a heating energy in winter, more than 70% is in Vojvodina. I don't know exactly how many members of national minorities are heating up on gas, but I believe it's a good number, and I think they're mostly interested in this question as citizens, because those who rob with that price of gas from a Serbian citizen don't care if it's a Serb, Hungarian, Romanian, Bonšak. They're the ones who want to take the money. I'd like to ask you as Minister, as a representative of the Government, and I'd like to ask you to take a pen after everyone has taken a pen and written. In response to your colleague, Minister Petar Skundric, who I received after several months, says - the two parameters that affect most the price of an energy entity dealing with natural gas trade in order to supply tariff customers are the import price of natural gas and the rate of dollars. So, the import price of gas and the rate of dollars. When you raised 60% of the price of gas and caused otium in both the political and other public, when there were plays and stories about the gas mafia and the collapse of the government, the rights of the Vojvodina and the citizens of Vojvodina that are heating on the gas, there were approximately only Markicevic left to talk. Maybe it's because I'm hot on gas too. Nothing's disputed, I'm telling you the truth. At that point, I'm talking about these two parameters, there are equally endangered members of the majority nation and members of the national minorities. That's why you're in debt, and I'm getting a relationship here to answer this question. So, a thousand cc's of gas then cost $496. The dollar was 51. Mr. Minister, that's 25,296 dinars. Now the import price of a thousand cc's of gas is $230 and the dollar has jumped, 66 dinars, that's 15 grand and 180 dinars. I ask and believe that they would like to hear the answer to this question all citizens of Serbia, whether they are members of national minorities or majority people, anyway. Where's this 10 grand? Where's that extra profit? In response, the minister is said to have no monopoly, so among other things he says in one paragraph, we specifically note that qualified consumers, so the gentleman, all customers except households, can buy natural gas on the free market at prices that are not regulated. So for households there is a monopoly, for members of national minorities, if we talk about their rights today and how they will regulate their rights, that is, how they will organize themselves. I think it also belongs to the human rights corps that someone who has a monopoly on the import of some energy that's very important, the heat season is on our doorstep, it's going to pass quickly, you know, as the people say, from St. Elijah's sun all the miles, August 2, it's transformation, and we're slowly coming into the prewar, or the warm season, no one here can answer. Is this question that complicated? The director of Serbia's gas knew nothing else to tell me but that I had no idea. Okay, I have no idea, this people have no idea, just answer this question. Anybody smart and qualified from the government to come and answer? When the right information and answers are not given, then there are all kinds of semi-information and half-truths. That's why you, as Government, are guilty. Here's the thing. Some sources claim, I don't know if that's true. You are here to respond to the citizens of Serbia. That winter gas that our president, otherwise born Saraylia, gave his hometown, who paid for that gas? Whether he paid for it from his father-in-law, grandfather's, savings, or now in those half-truths, to say, they should now pay for all Serbian citizens, whether they are members of national minorities or that they are Serbs. Is that true? Why don't you use timely information to contain, say, rumors like that. I still won't believe it. Don't make someone here a benefactor and a humanist in a wider Balkan space over their backs and over their pockets of poor citizens anyway. So, Mr. Minister, I think this question is very clear to you. I'll be pleased as a MP, and if you say, honestly and humanly, this is not my sector and I'm not in charge, I'll ask at the next government. So I repeat, Mr. Minister, $496. You know how 60% of the collection was explained. It's only done in banana states, where citizens are disfigured and have no human rights, when something increases 60%. We now have an announcement from the circles close to the government, as it is likely that the elections will most likely be near, that by the new year we will not increase electricity, gas etc. Who's talking about the increase? I'm talking about a cut. You are at this price robbing citizens of Serbia who are heating up gas, therefore, all citizens of Serbia and members of national minorities, because they are fortunately a special topic today. Nice laws, real politicians who want to represent a group of minority, national, all that's nice, but what are the people going to live on? Will this law that we pass today reduce the price of Hungarian gas in Vojvodina that, for example, heat on gas? I don't think so, and the question might be that they might want a bigger answer today. I can be a Serb and I don't know how big and Mr. Pastor I don't know how great a Hungarian is, but if he doesn't have a people to live, he can't be a man, first of all, let alone Hungarian, let alone think about his human, cultural and any other rights. So please answer this question, and I'll be pleased in advance if you say I'm not professional, I'll ask in government on Thursday. How is it possible for us to pay for the most expensive gas in Europe? Serbia's most expensive gas pays, as does the most expensive gasoline. Don't tie that to the Russians and sell the NIS. It has nothing to do with the Russians. It has to do with the excises that are doubled. As the people say, Mr. Minister, vita meals, green pine, I am waiting for a quick answer, and I believe many citizens in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-21-0.u24668	The word is from MP Kenan Hajdarevic, the LDP's authorised representative.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-21-0.u24669	The President-in-Office, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, has since the very beginning of the creation of a legislative framework for the formation of national councils of minorities in the public, raised controversy as to whether these national councils will have real legitimacy and the relevant democratic potential to be the representative body of national minorities. Whether it will function as a kind of minority parliament in which, in a democratic dialogue, it will discuss all the problems relevant to the national minority represented by this national council and whether it will point to these problems and try to resolve them in co-operation with the authorities. This controversy was driven by three problems identified in the law under which the first national advice was formed. First, it was a controversial way of selecting the national council, i.e. this electoral system, because this direct selection of national councils was neglected. Secondly, the controversy is leadership because of the way in which the national councils were financed and the third was the problem that they were not known or competences of these national councils at certain times were not clearly defined. The bill we're talking about today solves these three problems, according to us from LDP in a relatively good way, and we will support the bill, even though we will make some criticism. We have proposed six amendments wanting to improve this version of this bill. Our criticisms will go too far in the direction of future action of national councils. We are witnesses that in Serbia there is, as you have said in the light of this law, a large number of documents and legal proposals that speak of the rights of national minorities. However, because there is no way to implement these provisions, there is an impression from the national minority that have rights on paper, while in real life it is difficult or very rarely they can experience it. An example is the official use of the language of national minorities. The municipalities and other institutions that do not respect the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia do not respect the Law on Local Self-Government, do not respect the Law on the Protection of National Minorities and Ethnic Communities, just when they speak of the official use of minority languages, and there is no legal possibility that these local self-government or state bodies should be forced to comply with constitutional and legal provisions. The national councils, unfortunately, have in recent times failed to justify expectations. The council, unfortunately, has become an extended arm either of the authorities or of certain political parties representing national minorities. We are afraid that in the previous period, and we hope that in the future, national councils and this minority policy will not be aware of any refugee policy, i.e. the policy of managing only minority rights within a single political party or elite that sees itself as a national or minority elite. Because of all this, we have, by analysing this bill, seen some shortcomings that we should all consider together and find an opportunity to change that. The first and most important criticism of this bill concerns art. 70, 73 and 100, which speaks of the choice of national councils, i.e. the method of choice. Here in Article 70, it says: "The electoral lists, under the conditions laid down by this law, may be proposed by a group of voters enrolled in a special electoral list of the respective national minorities, i.e. organisations, associations of citizens, as well as political organisations of the national minority." Similarly, the members of the 73rd and 100th draft laws speak. What does that mean? This means discrimination against all of us members of the national minorities who belong to the civil parties, because, under the bill of this law, we cannot participate in elections for the national council, or even if we can participate, we have to smuggle through a group of citizens, some NGO, and we cannot go out with that political party that we belong to. In this way it is not only discrimination against persons who are members of civil orientation parties, it is discrimination against all voters of national minorities who vote for parties that are not parties to national minorities. The LDP believes that if someone can't be a bigger patriot in Serbia just because he has a specific name and name than we do who don't have a similar name and last name, we also believe that not members of national minorities who are members of national parties can have the exclusive right to represent national interests of a particular national minority. Because being a citizen does not mean not being a member of your national minority, does not mean getting dressed in faith and nations, does not mean not being Bosniak, Serbian, Hungarian, Croat, Albanian etc. On the contrary, being a citizen means being all of this, and political belonging means only belonging to some political ideas and ways to achieve these political ideas. Indeed, for us from the LDP, it is unacceptable for citizens to vote in the elections, whether local or republican, or presidential, for certain political parties of civil orientation, and that when they have to vote for national councils, they have to have that legal restriction, i.e. those citizens in the republican elections vote for LDP policy or some other civil parties, and when they have to vote on their cultural, educational autonomy, they have to vote for members of the parties belonging to the parties of national minorities. We have here proposed an amendment that allows all members of the national minorities, regardless of their party membership, to participate in the elections, to be elected. The natural thing, when we talk about the election and the authorities of the national councils, is that we have submitted another amendment that speaks of the conflict of interest, because this proposal for a law on national councils has not defined a conflict of interest in the fullest sense of that word. We have only one member who says that members of the National Council, i.e. the President cannot be judge, judge of the Constitutional Court or Prosecutor, but we believe that national councils must be absolutely applied - a law on conflict of interest, because I cannot allow only one particular "elite" to be MPs, and ministers, and presidents of municipalities and to be members of national councils. I think that members of national minorities, a large number of them exist who are not members of any party, and such a defined proposal to elect national councils, I'm afraid, is introducing another party authority into the functioning of the state. We must flee from it, or we must create such organs that will truly represent the true picture of individual national minorities. National minorities are not the only members belonging to certain political parties, especially the parties of national minorities. Also, if we talk about this law, you will see in Article 9, point 6) in one part of the hair with Article 2(2). In Article 9(6), it is said, among other things - the establishment of institutions, associations, foundations, companies in the fields of culture, education, communication and official use of languages and letters and in other areas to preserve the integrity of the national minority. While Article 2(2) says - the national council represents a national minority in the fields of education, culture, communication in the language of national minorities and official use of languages and letters. So there's no "other areas" either. When we talk about the jurisdiction of national councils relating to culture, education, notification and official use of language, Article 14 point 10), Article 17 point 10), Article 20(3), give some opposite points. Thus, Article 14(10) says - that the national council, in accordance with the law in the field of education, gives an opinion on the procedure for the allocation of funds from the budget of the Republic, AP, local self-government, etc. Further Article 17, which speaks of the area of culture, says at point 10, is a proposal for the allocation of funds allocated through public competition from the Republic, AP or local self-government units. Also, Article 20(3), which speaks of jurisdiction in the field of communication, says - that the National Council is making a proposal for the allocation of funds to be allocated through a public competition. We believe that national advice can only give an opinion. They can't offer national advice if it's a public competition. Also, here in Article 17, point 10, provides a proposal for the distribution of 'and associations of national minorities in the area of culture'. I think there should be one general provision here -- associations in the field of culture dealing with minority rights, or promoting the culture of national minorities, because we cannot tell those institutions, or those NGOs, those organisations that do not belong to a narrow national minority, that only they can have those resources. And also, if we're talking about Article 28, Mr. Minister, you just said, the 2nd position of Article 28 is unnecessary, which is saying - that national minorities themselves will define which of these two ways will give priority. This refers to the way national advice is chosen because it is clearly defined here when it is used electrically and when the direct system is used, so we think that this attitude is unnecessary. When we talk about Article 38, public information obligations to follow the elections of national councils, we return to the situation -- that the parties of national minorities who can participate in this process will be privileged in relation to other organisations and groups of citizens, because of their own organisational action and the resources they can use in this election campaign, to call it that. Article 114 of this bill, which speaks of the obligation of local self-government to finance the work of national councils, speaks in its last position - that local self-governments in which members of national minorities reach at least 10% of the total population, these local self-governments finance the national councils of these national minorities, or national minorities whose language is officially used in the territory of the unit of local self-government. We find it unnecessary to stand this "or national minorities whose language is in official use in the territory of the unit of local self-government", because of the legal restriction that says that in the official use of municipalities, or in local self-government units, a minority language if, according to the latest list, 15% of the population has declared to speak that language. So I believe that this provision is greater, or that we should not retain this provision that speaks of 10% of the members of the national minority. The funding of national councils is quite well regulated by this law. However, we have one principled remark, although here is defined as how much local self-government stands out for the work of national councils, to form a budget fund of national councils, and the rest, I think it should have been defined and relations - how to spend these funds from that budget fund, because there are some criteria here, but I think that this should be determined on a percentage basis, that is, the means that national councils receive for their work are not only used for employees, because national councils need to work too hard to promote culture, education and official use of language and information. There should be an advantage in funding these projects over the very way of functioning of that national system. Also, we have a big problem here, and you, Mr. Minister, spoke the same thing about that special polling list. This issue of a special voter's list will have members of national minorities, especially members of national minorities who are minorities in their local self-governments because of the fear that these voter lists can be misused and I think that in the coming period the state authorities should do more to inform you about what you just said about this special polling list. We also envisioned an amendment in part of the criminal provisions, which increases the amount of fines for the misuse of data contained in the special polling list. Because, I repeat, we must not forget the fear of certain members of the national minorities from the abuse of this data from a special polling list. This may result in a relatively small number of members of national minorities deciding to apply to this special voter list, and a smaller number of members of national minorities who decide to apply for this special voter list may lead to us not having a representative body of that national minority, or national council of that national minority. For all of us, both the Ministry and members of national minorities, the goal should be to have as many members of the national minorities as possible apply for this special voter list to have as much democratic or better choice as possible, i.e. to have the most representative body of these national councils. Also, when we talk here about the electoral system of choice, we have a Article 101 point 5) which is a little bit incomprehensible. Here it is said that the written correction on the decision of the National Minority Association of the National Minority Assembly was made for the national minority electorate. If an organisation of a national minority suggests a man for an electrician, does he also have to collect those 100 signatures, this member is a little undefined on that basis, or is it just enough just for the statute and proposal of that organisation to have the person be an electrician in the future of that electoral assembly? In the end, I will repeat the LDP's position that we will support this bill. We hope you will respect the amendments we have proposed, especially this amendment, which also allows members of national minorities who are not members of the national parties to participate in these elections. At the end of the day, we must not allow us from the Liberal Democratic Party, particularly, to have a call of discrimination in the text of this bill, as we have a call of discrimination in the very Constitution of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-21-0.u24670	The word has Minister Svetozar Ciplic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-21-0.u24671	Dear MP, many of these questions you have raised have been questions that we have faced for a long time. All of these problems that you've brought up are problems and today, but we just had to identify ourselves from possible solutions to these problems or different approaches to these problems. As far as political parties are concerned, the main thing is that as a member of the Serb people, I deeply believe that no national minority's life will be reduced to the functioning of the national council. Simply, the national council, in addition to its former wealth of common life, the social life of a national minority, is a new addition that will deal specifically with the provision of enjoyment, life, execution, whatever you want, by the constitution of the guaranteed special rights of national minorities. So it's a mechanism for execution. Of course, we all know well, given that it is a mechanism, a body which, however, is not a state body, which is meant to enforce constitutional guarantees, that its political authority is certainly great. That's not controversial. What I personally couldn't refuse as an argument is the next fact. First, political parties, all who are here, are political parties that create political life. It's very difficult when a national minority manages to fail and a political party, which is, I would say, an element of the life of every national minority, that you ignore that political party. It's on one side. On the other hand, it does not come down, of course, to the entire life of a national minority, since one can, and may not have a political party, just that, but also to cultural institutions, to the institutions of education. If you have 16 formed national councils, 16 national minorities, you will see that some have such. culture institutions called queens, some don't. They differ by shape, by content, etc. One thing we had to do, try to cover it all in the most general way, all the differences between ourselves, that no institution of any national minority would fall out of these legal solutions. So, it's an attempt, and we were immediately aware that through what you said was the lists of a group of citizens possible and the political influence of other political parties that do not have a national sign. These are the things we had to break. We broke it this way. In the discussion and in the argument concerning the amendments, we can talk about it again, but what is the fact is that the national minorities who did not have or still do not have political parties with a national sign felt that the political party was precisely part of a national minority that has a sign – national, if of course it went to elections and if it was formed, and that it should also be included. There was another problem, which we had in the procedure, which I will partially answer some more of your questions, for a long time the law on citizens' associations. It was very difficult to determine who was who on behalf of the state organisations gave the candidacy, since each state organisation has the right to regulate certain competences as it wishes. In that sense, trying to answer all the important questions, to have an effective answer, a functional answer, we had to choose between the minimum two, sometimes more solutions.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-21-0.u24672	National MP Kenan Hajdarevic, right on line.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-21-0.u24673	Mr. Minister, I really support your efforts to include in the selection system national councils all possible institutions of national minorities, whether they are associations of citizens, political parties of national minorities, but we must not forget that this is the way in which we are pushing members of national minorities who are not members of national parties outside the system. That's the problem with this bill we've been talking about. In this way, by the draft law, the draft law on local elections that Mr. Markovic represented, we are in a position for the state to tell members of national minorities: if it wants to be organised politically, that is, if they are going to deal with politics they should go to national parties; there is no place for you in civil parties because you are thus discriminated against. That's the problem we're talking about. Indeed, the LDP sees the parties of national minorities as its partners, natural partners. But we cannot allow any legal proposal to create the possibility of discrimination, or I cannot allow the same thing, maybe now it will say that, but that is contrary to my opinion, that only the parties of the national minorities can say what the interests of a particular national minority are. The interests of national minorities represent those parties who get the votes of the national minority in the elections, that is the essence. Let us not discriminate against all members of national minorities belonging to civil parties, because we want to show in these elections who is a representative of the interests of national minorities and in what respect. Because in this way national minority parties can use all their potential to get votes, and we can, for example, use all their potentials to win votes. from the LDP we must go as a group of citizens and explain to our voters why we go as a group of citizens when members of the national council are elected, and why we go as party members if voted for the committees, MPs or any other choice that defines the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-21-0.u24674	Does the word want an authorised representative of the SPS-JS parliamentary group? National MP Tomislav Nikolic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-21-0.u24675	To make sure that you did not harm the Rules of Procedure by failing to warn the previous speaker, I would like to know what civil parties are for him and whether such a term exists with us, or whether it implies all political parties organised on the principles where political parties in Serbia are organised, except for the parties of national minorities? Does this protect minority rights exclusively in the LDP or, for example, the rights of members of national minorities in the SNS? Does the term "civil party" mean both SNS, and DS, and SRS and DSS? All these parties contain members of national minorities. When defending the attitudes that we have made when you have passed laws that have been positively discriminated against by minority parties in a certain way, especially about censorship in the elections, and when we have said that they are a kind of ghetto and that members of national minorities belonging to other political parties will even be exposed to some kind of protest among members of national minorities in the environments they live in, because they carry part of the votes of national minorities parties to other orientations, which are not the prejudicial objective, so I would ask you here to allow equal participation of all parties. If under civil parties you mean all parties that are not parties to national minorities in order, but if the predecessor has made discrimination against the parties, so has the party to which I belong declared a citizen party, I am interested in his position on other parties he did not mention, does he also account for them in national parties, some new third term which he did not use, and whether members of national minorities, members of national parties, will have the right to this kind of protection of Mr Hajdarevic whenever they are concerned?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-21-0.u24676	National MP, there is no breach of the Rules of Procedure, regardless of which you have not listed a member of the Rules of Procedure who you consider to have been injured. The explanation you have presented would be more of a replica or your interpretation of what MP Kenan Hajdarevic had the right to express as his position. I warn you not to abuse the law of the article. The 100th century is the 1st century. The theme we're dealing with today is interesting. It includes very serious processes in society, and you can be sure that anyone who seeks the right to a replica, with no other option to get a word, that right and achieve it. I ask you that, considering that someone has said something that can be interpreted differently, you are looking for a right to a replica, you will not be denied, and that with such a debate, both between yourselves and today, we will really remove any doubt about what anyone has said. It cannot be treated by insult or by reason of a reminder of the position of MPs as they will call their own or any other party. That's not offensive. That's what you and I know. National MP Miletic Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-21-0.u24677	The President-in-Office, Mr. Minister, Mrs. Muškonja, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is an opportunity to discuss today a complex issue, in fact areas that have finally come to the agenda, and perhaps should have, in any case before, in order to make matters very important for the lives and work in all areas of the lives of national minorities, as well as issues of freedom and minority rights better defined, in line with all the assumptions that exist in the Constitution, both in international contracts and in all the positive acts of modern civilization. So, Mr. Minister, I really believe that you, as a legislator, along with a team who worked on this bill, have worked very hard to find the best solutions, so that from the upcoming law that I believe we will adopt, we will get one legislation that will better settle all issues than before. The issue of human rights and freedom is certainly the first-class issue of modern civilization, the modern world and it is an integral part of all basic documents in all countries, and the Constitution, but also of many other documents of international organisations, meaning, conventions, charters and contracts. However, the standards achieved in this area would not be sufficient without additional individual and collective rights of members of national minorities. Our Constitution has given considerable attention to this matter in some members, primarily in Articles 75, 79 and 80, where these collective rights are spoken of. In fact, it is about direct participation or through representatives in decision-making on rights, especially in the fields of culture, education, communication, use of languages and letters, and with the aim of preserving all the traditions and identities of members of national minorities. The right to minority self-government in these areas can be achieved by choosing national councils, and that is practice in other countries too, so it's not just our legislation, and we're doing it here today. Also, the adoption of this law came from ratified international agreements relating to the guarantee of human rights and freedoms, especially the guarantee of the rights and freedoms of national minorities. For example, the UN Charter observes and regulates the issue of minorities and minority protection within the general human rights protection system, but that is something in the broadest sense. It is worth mentioning a document called the Framework Convention for the Protection of National Minorities, which is the first legally binding international instrument in general dedicated to the rights of national minorities. We have ratified the Framework Convention and, of course, we are working with the Advisory Committee of this Framework Convention and we are actively participating as a state in what is the exercise of rights, but at the level of those standards and at the level of those achievements that already exist in highly developed countries, in which democracy is indisputable to one race and which has given great achievements in human rights, and particularly national minorities. Also, this law had to be passed before. I'm under the impression that the former authorities, who were in charge of dealing with this issue, were running away from this problem. This is certainly a hot potato that had to be caught in the hands and dealt with and to solve this issue, and it is certainly important that you as a ministry within this government have dealt with this issue. Another reason came from what the Law on the Protection of the Rights and Freedom of National Minorities, which is still valid, which in Article 19 provides for the possibility of selecting national councils, but there is not clearly a lot of detail in this law as regards both national councils, and when it comes to elections, and when it comes to the competences and rights of the National Council. It was also necessary after the adoption of that law to adopt a rule on how the Electoral Assembly works for the selection of national councils, on the basis of which the selection of national councils was carried out 15, 16, I think, as many as there are. So far, the practice and life in this sphere have shown that there are many, many problems, many even improvisation and different interpretations and laws previously adopted and this Regulation on the selection of electricians. This allowed different approaches to selected national councils in the exercise of their rights and competences, which is certainly not good for the state of Serbia and for the legal order in our country. The law handles status issues well. I wouldn't do that in particular. When it comes to competences, it clearly defines the competences involved in certain spheres, such as education, culture, communication, official use of language and letters, the rights of national councils in the establishment are, in fact, the founding rights for participation in governance and other competences. What is very important is that the law provides for the futility of legal acts, if certain members of this law are not respected when adopting other acts, laws, etc. in the bodies of the Republic of Serbia. Therefore, there was created one possibility for the correlation, integration and integration of everything that is both the interest and the right of national minorities with general interest and common legislation in the broadest sense of the Republic of Serbia. However, it seems that, in addition to the clear progress in this area has been made and that it will leave a positive mark on the functioning of everything that is the life of national minorities, the achievement of their rights within our country, that there are certain shortcomings in this law, as well as the competences of national councils, and what results from that, and also in what is the choice of national councils. It is very important that national councils are chosen to create such assumptions that will reduce the possibility of some interest groups or centres that represent less the interest of a given national minority and represent more the interests of a group, conditionally speaking perhaps some "minor oligarchy" or some "elite". There's a possibility and a danger of that happening. Of course, the SPS-JS supports this bill, so I don't leave a dilemma in it. The critical approach of an analysis of all this and we think that a major step has been made towards resolving these issues, but that very soon the time, both the practice and the implementation of this law will show certain shortcomings, and I think it will be necessary to react in accordance with the outcomes of the application of this law and make additional changes and additions to improve this matter and this regulation at some point. We as a parliamentary group don't perform exclusively, we're more in front of a dilemma and we see that it's a very complex matter and there are complex questions ahead of us and, I'd say, as you're struggling to define all of this, we don't think we can all be smart enough together to give final answers to what's best as a solution. So we need to keep an eye on the future of applying this law and as soon as possible, when it comes to the need to react to all of this. The public has shown and we have also had a reaction to certain associations dealing with information, the issue of founding rights, especially in the field of information. Indeed, there is a possibility of jeopardizing the principle of media independence if the founding rights are in the hands of the national council, and if that national council is less a national minority, and more the interest of a group, and this can come from the system and the way the National Council is elected, which may also be a thin place in what we want to achieve, then everything is shot and blamed and going in the wrong direction. When it comes to the selection of national councils, certainly an attempt has been made to reach the goal within two alternatives and perhaps it is the best way and the most democratic to choose through direct elections, from special voter lists, although there may be some objections to whether it is good to make up special voter lists, especially in the areas where minorities are represented in a smaller number, etc. So it's hard to be smart about what I'm talking about. I understand your torture and your dilemmas, but something had to come out and go. The national council's election issue is treated in Article 70, when it comes to direct elections, where we have electoral lists to be proposed by a group of voters, at least one per cent on the electoral list and no more than 50. We think it's a small number, or it's a small percentage. We haven't ruled it out, but it's one dilemma. Proposing and supporting these lists by the citizens' association can be very controversial, especially under the new law on citizens' association, where we have the right to form citizens' associations have three persons, of which two minors can be. Of course, if they have a national omen or are dealing with these issues, it could be the factory of these associations that will support the list, which also applies to Article 100, so I don't specifically talk about where we have the proposal of the electorate by these entities, the association of citizens. The issue of political organisations with a national omen, about a lot of what Mr. Hajdarevic presented here in the discussion, we agree with such thinking, without controversy and the need to define now whether they are civil or other parties, is meant by parties that do not have national signs of a national minority, that includes both the SPS, and the JS, and the SRS, and the DSS, and SNS and DS, etc., I apologize, that I do not order, but you know what I mean. Of course, there should be a difference between what the electoral law is, the general one, which has given the possibility for minorities not to seek censorship as for other parties representing the majority people or not representing national minorities, at least by what their name is, etc. and what it is is the choice of minority self-government. It's not two parallels, it's quite different things. This is just one segment that needs to be further upgraded and to ensure what minority rights are within the already existing system. We believe that members of national minorities who are in other parties are prevented from being supported by their political beliefs or on behalf of their political beliefs and views by their parties and participating in what is a list or a selection of electricians etc. In this way, practically members of national minorities in some areas can be pushed into what is their narrow national, which is very wrong, because it is certainly wrong to push citizens into what is national on a global scale, which is Serbian etc. Take care of one balance that's very sensitive. For these reasons, we think that the issue of supporting the list in the direct elections and also the question of candidateing of the electorate should go with the obligation of 100 signatures, and that the parties of the national minorities can also stand behind it, but also all other parties that may, in some cases, take more care of what is the interest of national minorities, even if it is hypothetical, but we must start with one such thinking and attitude. There's probably a thin spot. I don't know, there's probably a proposal and an amendment in that direction, to see if there's anything we can do or to keep an eye on that issue for a future time. I think the issue of supervision is well set: by the Ministry through the possibility of checking constitutionality, through the possibility of banning a certain act of the National Council, with the obligation to request constitutionality after five days, etc. Allow me only on behalf of the SPS-JS one more question, although I apologize, it is the result of my indiscriminateness (President: Time. Let me just finish the thought. Has the Council of the Republic of Serbia for National Minorities come from the Law on the Protection of Rights and Freedom? If it's okay, and if it's not, then there should be a question here. To finish, the SPS-JS, and despite all the dilemmas, will support this bill, but it will work very quickly and we will make efforts at some additions, amendments, through amendments, as much as possible, but we will also try to make additions and changes if it is...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-21-0.u24678	People's MP, please finish. National MP Otto Kishmarton, authorised representative of the parliamentary club, Forward Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-21-0.u24679	Dear fellow MPs, our constitution regulates that members of national minorities, in addition to the rights guaranteed by the Constitution to all citizens, are guaranteed additional rights, individual and collective. Individual rights are exercised individually and collectively in the community with others, in accordance with our constitution, law and international agreements. By way of collective rights, members of national minorities directly or through their representatives participate in the decision-making of certain issues related to their culture, education, notification and official use of language and letter, in accordance with our law. In the light of the law, it states that this law will allow national minorities the right to self-government in culture, education, communication and official use of language. National minorities in Serbia have and should have rights like all other Serbian citizens, i.e. they have and should have rights as well as the majority people in Serbia. In order for national minorities to be able to exercise their rights in the future, it is not enough just to form national councils and tell national minorities – here are your advice, so you do whatever you want. National minorities cannot be cared for by national minorities themselves. National minorities must be taken into account by the majority of the people and parties who have the most support in the people of Serbia. It is not the goal of either the state or the national minorities to live separately, isolatedly, in their settlements or parts of the settlement, without contact with other peoples. National minorities do not want to live next to the Serb people, they want to live with the Serb people. Serbia has a very charming population in terms of the national council, which is very good for both individual and Serbia. National charm allows all our citizens to learn and experience the customs of different peoples, cultures of other peoples, customs of other peoples, religious customs, the history of other peoples. The mixed population in terms of different nationalities, different languages, different religions teach citizens tolerance. In my opinion, the environments where citizens live are also the most tolerated, because citizens have learned to live together for centuries, work together, rely on each other, celebrate and grieve together. This life together can only be ruined by politicians with bad intentions. Mixed marriages are being made, which is also good, especially if these families continue to cultivate the languages, culture, religious customs of both spouses. In such backgrounds, there is no fear of the majority people, nor can it be said of any terror of the majority people over the minority. For example, an example from kickinda. By national composition, he's been a charred for centuries. Besides the Serbian people, they live in large numbers, work and build this city and members of Hungarian nationality, Romanians, Germans, Slovaks, Croats, Roma and other minorities. We respect both Easters, both Christmases, people go to each other's celebrations and live together. Our party, SNS, absolutely supports the right of national minorities to express, preserve and cultivate languages and letters, preserve tradition, preserve culture, as well as religious specialities. The formation of national councils, i.e. the adoption of this law, is primarily committed by ratification of international contracts, especially those relating to the guarantee of human rights and freedoms, in particular the right of national minorities, as well as the obligation to meet the standards of stabilisation and accession. Since the adoption of this law is our country's obligation to the EU, this law will also be adopted by the assembly majority. The adoption of this law does not mean that Serbia has problems with national minorities, nor that national minorities have problems with Serbia, so as now this law will correct something. In my opinion, Serbia can be an example of tolerance and good international relations, and in this regard, EU countries could learn from us. This law will allow members of national minorities to form national councils to exercise self-government rights in the fields of use of languages and letters, areas of education, areas of information and cultural areas. In the interest of national minorities and in order to improve this law, we from the SNS have submitted several amendments. We aim to make this law really better, that is, to improve the position of national minorities in the areas they regulate. It is not the purpose of the existence of national councils of national minorities for its own sake, i.e. it is not the aim of the law to exist for the sake of the EU. The most important thing is for advice to work, i.e. working in the interest of individual national minorities, as well as in the interest of the Serbian state. As I said, national minorities do not want to live beside the Serb people, but together with the Serb people. The question arises – do national councils of national minorities need? Yes, they do. We need national councils from national minorities and such advice that will represent the interests of all members of the national minority, as well as the interests of our country. National councils that really represent and express the will of citizens in the elections can and need much to contribute to Serbia's image in the world. As representatives of individual national minorities, embassy activities in neighbouring countries can be carried out. It may be easier to explain to the EU and our neighbours that this people living in the Balkans did not deserve constant punishment from the world. In order to achieve this advice, the political advice of national minorities should not be. elected councils should not consist of politicians representing the interests of their parties. The national council of national minorities should have the best experts and minorities in the fields of culture, education, history, who will work in the interests of all members of that minority, regardless of which parties, who will work in Serbia's interest and in accordance with the law. The co-operation of national councils with our state and government, as well as with major parties in Serbia, is very important because national minorities cannot take care of themselves in isolation. The question arises, if two, three, five, ten, 20% of members of the national minority vote for the national council of national minorities, what is the legitimacy of the council? How can that council represent that national minority? The special issue is the election of councils through the electorate, where the council can be chosen on a proposal of 20 associations, which can have three members. In that case, the national council would choose about 60 people, who have the right to choose 15 members of the National Council. The council was elected by theoretically 60 members of the national minority. The president of the council will say it represents a national minority that may be numbering several hundred thousand citizens of Serbia, members of a national minority. In other remarks that we have on this law, and we have a lot of objections, we will talk about it at the session when it is discussed in particular by my colleague and I. Dear fellow MPs, if it is a motive for adopting this law on national councils of national minorities to improve the reputation and position of Serbia in the world, i.e. to show Serbia as a country of broad democracy that's okay, but does anyone really think that passing this law will improve the position of national minorities in Serbia? By passing this law and by listing the rights of national minorities, we show good will and respect for citizens of other nationalities. No one will be better off with their rights than the majority of citizens, not only minorities, the most important right to work – many cannot exercise their right to education, many countries cannot guarantee free treatment, etc. Does anyone think that in this poor state of Serbia, with a broken economy, in the conditions of great poverty, debt, unemployment of any national minority can be better without all other citizens getting better? As long as Serbia is in crisis, which has long been in crisis, I would not say that the crisis has come to Serbia, but Serbia has gone into crisis, it is difficult for us to improve the situation of all citizens, as well as the position of national minorities. The SNS, as an advanced party, as one multinational party and as a party to tolerance, fully respects Serbia's Constitution, all the rights guaranteed by the Constitution to national minorities. The SNS respects the diversity of our citizens, given that national minorities cannot in Serbia alone take care of themselves. The SNS' goal is to assist all members of the national minorities who respect Serbia as a common state. This country belongs to all of us who live here. This country was built, protected and defended by our ancestors, and we are equally entitled to this country, and in Serbia we all need equal rights and of course equal obligations towards our country. To conclude, as long as there is crime, corruption, high unemployment, a poor economic situation, a crisis in the state and family, there is no progress in both better life for the majority people and for the members of the national minorities. In the end, I must say that this bill is so beautifully done that it causes joy for members of the national minorities. The law is as beautiful as a thousand promised euros of free action to every full-time citizen of Serbia or 500,000 promised new jobs. I wouldn't want national minorities from this law to get what the Roma got from the Decade of Roma. My friend Rom says: Decade of Roma has brought us no longer to be called gypsies, now we're called Roma, and we live as we have so far.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-21-0.u24680	The word is Jovan Damjanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-21-0.u24681	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at first I would like to thank our democratic state, the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights and the team that has been working on this new law on election councils of national minorities. It is evident that something has changed in the law which is the interest and benefits of national minorities, not individual national minorities, but at all. Surely this is not the end where all democratic methods for national minorities could be implemented. We need to know that the National Council is a new structure in our country. It is certain that not all acts in the interests of minority peoples and citizens are yet to be covered, I hope that through practice a lot will be done which is not so far. We know that the first law on the selection of national councils was much more inappropriate, worse and unacceptable than this one now. We see that there is more democracy in the new law, the acceptance of international conventions, the rights of minority people, that we have collective rights now in the state. So far we have not had the rights that this law now allows us. In a country where you have no rights as a national minority, you cannot exercise your rights through the constitution and the law, because that law does not exist. Now we have a law where this law gives us one more opportunity and more rights than ever before. We have the right to information, we have the right to print and print media, but under the authority of the state. So far, we've been on our own and we've had two TVs shut down. We weren't in a legal system in the state. Now we already have one system where our country commits to all these positive methods and decisions made by the government, or the state. So far we had no right to minority self-government, we had no right to education, language, our national culture, religious customs, etc. So far it has been the way it has been, but I believe that this law has a lot more rights and that through this law, the rights of national minorities in all these areas that are listed here will be much more implemented. I'm sure it's been so hard so far, it's hard right now, but I think it's easier. We were a nation that had neither in the Constitution nor in the law of this state rights collectively. If you don't have a collective right, and you're a nation and you live in one country, then that's a little absurd. However, now our country has allowed national minorities what we have not had so far and to operate in our community exactly as it suits our peoples in certain institutions. Also, what I'm saying is that so far, we've been on our own and we've been writing all kinds of projects and we're looking for them. However, the state is now standing. Now we no longer ask the organizations of certain, but we have rights and the state commits itself to these structures and segments of the state behind it and the state covers all our needs in these structures. We've got a problem, I'm talking about the Roma community now, opening up... (President: Mr Damjanovic, time is up.) Finish your sentence, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-21-0.u24682	MP Zeljko Tomic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-21-0.u24683	Can I do the Rules of Procedure first? It's weird, but please. Mrs. Dejanovic, I think you had to react to Mr. Damjanovic's statement that so far the Roma could not do anything, but this law will also exercise the right to school, and I don't know what he's been saying. Mr. Damjanovic, so who promoted the Decade of Roma? Who established, emancipated and fully promoted your national council? That was during the government of Vojislav Kostunica. Why didn't you say so? Now, don't let anything happen to this law, we're one nation that didn't have a collective organization, and now, by this law, as you yourself have said, I quote you, this law will give us no idea how many more rights. Don't, please, history is our great witness and we can't talk and forget something that was just so easy.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-21-0.u24684	Okay. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-21-0.u24685	Now as an authorised representative. First of all, I would like to remind myself that the institution of the national councils of the national minorities introduced in the legal order of the 2002 Law on the Protection of Freedom and Rights of National Minorities, which was called the federal law, or voted in the Federal Assembly of the SRJ. By adopting the new Constitution of the Republic of Serbia on 8 November 2006, national councils become a constitutional category. I quote and many MPs have done so, I will quote once more during my speech, the Constitution provides for Article 75(3) that members of national minorities to exercise the right to self-government in culture, education, notification and official use of language and letters may choose their national councils in accordance with the law. This provision of the Constitution is repeatedly violated in this law and we will discuss it. The 2002 law also regulated the selection process of national councils in transitional and final provisions, which stipulate that until the adoption of a special law, I assume that this is the choice of national councils to hold a assembly of national minority electorate, and that the right to be electors will have MPs and committees in units of local self-government in which the minority language is in official use and who are elected to this function because of their membership of the national minority of persons who collect 100 signatures of support from members of the national minority and persons who determine minority associations and organisations. In his presentation, the minister gave me one great thing for cream. He said decoded, and there's a problem and we'll get the most into the problem, that national councils have political authority. Watch out, political authority. I quote - they exercise rights to self-government in culture, education, communication and official use of language and letters. Are we coming out of cultural autonomy with this law? What does political authority mean? Is that exactly what someone here wants to give, political authority? Is it not enough that certain national minorities also have political parties? No, but national councils will also have political authority. I don't know if the minister was conscious or subconscious, or unconscious, but there's the bottom line of the problem that politicizing national councils, believe me, I've witnessed many such cases, there are. I will remind the present MP, Esad Djudjevic, who, in his time, was the chairman of the Assembly Committee on National Minorities, that we were at one meeting of a council, where the president of one council of the national minority, all of his fellow citizens from the other part, who lived beyond that region, called it a diaspora. We'll remember that easily. I want to say that this politicisation within the framework of national councils is present and I fear that this term - political authority must be avoided, or should not exist. That's the big difference between us ministers. Specific objections to the law, of course, for longer and longer, we will discuss the amendments, but some should be noted. Article 2(2) provides - that the national council represents a national minority in the area of education, culture, or so, notices etc. and that national councils can set up companies. Watch out, "business society", another exit from the so-called "business society." cultural autonomy, from the framework set by Article 75(3). The Constitution. Companies operate in areas of social life, in which national councils represent national minorities. This solution is not in line with constitutional and legal solutions. The question arises: is the establishment of companies even compatible with cultural autonomy? Who's going to explain it here properly and convincingly - nobody can explain it to me? Then the question arises - whether the establishment of companies and the business activity of the council is compatible at the end with the budget financing of the council. Furthermore, in Article 3, paragraphs 2 and 3. The bill provides - that enrolment is made on the basis of requirements for enrolment, etc. For the solutions I've come up with, I don't have any regrets, big ones, it couldn't be if the national councils weren't already on the register. Does this mean that after every election for national councils, whatever we decide to be, we're going to renew the registers? After each constitutive session of the new National Council, are we going to write down the advice in the register, or is the register permanent, or if a new one appears, then supplement it? Does that mean we'll do it all the time? Article 12(1) provides - that the national council proposes members of the board of directors, i.e. the representatives of local self-government units in local self-government institutions in which education-examination work is carried out in most departments of the language of the national minority. It's now tearing down that concept, right, three-three-three, where we have three representatives from school, three from parenting and three from local self-government. In theory, it can happen that in areas where the dominant national minorities are monolithic that we have monoethnic school boards. Then there are no more stories about multinationality, multiculturality, multinationality, etc. It can also be a convenient field for manipulation, or politicisation, even in schools by national minorities who can resort to it. Article 13 contains a solution to which - the national council gives an opinion, beware, to the National Educational Council, among other things, of the Serbian teaching programmes, as an intrinsic language, which is very interesting. Such a solution greatly exceeds the role a national council can play. Where does this right come from, when both the Constitution and the applicable Law on the Protection of the Rights and Freedom of National Minorities do not regulate it? Let's say, from the field of education, does this mean that we can take a break today, figuratively speaking, of course, I don't mean literally, until all the national councils come out, say, those two laws in the field of education that we have on the agenda? Look out, you're saying dangerous nonsense. Then, politicisation and the role of national councils are, I repeat, more than possible if we continue this way. Furthermore, Article 19 states - that the national council can establish, as I said, institutions and companies and perform radio-television activities independently or together with another legal person. We remember that in general or in part, founding rights have already been transferred to national councils. So we had a case, Mr. Ciplic knows very well, that in 2005, from the Vojvodina Assembly, we handed over these powers to the national councils, so the draft of the Hungarian Soa from Novi Sad was moved to Saturday. How happy this is the solution and how much longer this law perfects this model, you and I as Novosadians can walk with the New Sad, and if you find one of the only New-Sad Hungarians who is satisfied with such a solution, and ask by the order, you know very well how much this dissatisfaction has caused both in the New Sad and in the surrounding area, right among the Hungarian national minorities. It was a dangerous precedent, a dangerous thing that happened. So I think the National Council can also influence editorial policy with these "and their own texts" and political abuses, and I'm not talking about this particular case right now, but in principle. Let me remind you that this did not echo well among the Hungarian population outside of Subotica. It was absolutely a conviction, but he didn't have anyone to listen to it. Furthermore, Article 22, very sensitive, writes - that national councils, beware of the term, "confirm" traditional titles. They're establishing. So how can traditional names be determined if they are traditional? They can be determined, not today we can determine what the traditional name is. We can determine what history has left us, by various names of the place, etc. You today allow the possibility to determine what is traditional today. We can only stop. So here we come to another problem. The choices are very interesting. They will be spoken of by more of my colleagues from the DSS parliamentary group, but I will remind you, and you will not be able to argue, I challenge you -- no international document, none, and especially the Framework Convention does not foresee such a model of choice. I don't think it exists. There's no such thing in the world. In parallel law, find a model like that. In Croatia, compared with local elections, for example, they say, elections for local national councils, which then form their roof associations, they say, at the state level. There's no direct choice at the state level. In Hungary, representatives of local minority self-government, so the electricians, which we stand for, what we have suggested by a large amount of amendments to go that way, the electoral way of choice, then these electricians in Hungary choose, as they say, the Earth's so-called Earth. A minority self-government. You said in the opening statement that the electoral elections are less democratic, that they cannot be considered very democratic. In conveyed terms, I can perform more naturally from that attitude that Barak Obama was not chosen in a very democratic way, since he was elected in the electoral elections. All in all, as far as the special voter lists are concerned, that's a special subject. We'll talk about it the most about the amendment. The polling list of national minorities is a big problem. On the one hand, in a technical sense, you will now approach the formation of these electoral lists, as early as the end of this year, at the latest at the beginning of the next year, and in 2011, we already have an appointment, right, the census. Based on that census, it would be normal to make such a voter list as you imagined. The protection of personality data is guaranteed and you also have to answer where there is an example of such a voter list in the world? Where is it? Where there are these choices, I've already asked you. I know that you can't answer that there's something out there and that your word "exception" in my opinion doesn't satisfy anything or anyone, because it is an anti-constitutional norm, because Article 47. The Constitution states explicitly that no one is obliged to declare his nationality. I'm not saying that the state here, as you said, is not going to force anyone, of course, there are no pressures, but the moment I enter the voter's list, and by my will, I plead nationality, but you have to know that there are people who simply want to use that constitutional authority, and they want to participate in the elections. And because of that, the electrical system is much simpler and much better and more meaningful. All in all, I'll remind you, you said the maltenes weren't supposed to, they didn't want or dared, I don't know, I don't remember the exact formulation, accessing this bill earlier. There was a draft of this law, and as it became, and that is my fundamental remark - why has this law not been passed before? This law makes up for the imbalances of large and small national minorities, not all of them. After all, if, God forbid, it is adopted in this form, very soon, and it will be seen by members of the so-called. the smaller national minorities very quickly and clearly say. There is an inequality of minorities, especially in the debate on amendments to talk, from central Serbia and Vojvodina, there is also duality, there is a different approach. The large national minorities, primarily I think of the Hungarian, the good part and the Bulgarian part, will find it easier to handle this, and the small national minorities will find it harder to cope with their weaker influences after the law has been passed. You can't argue that on this bill, all the ministries gave a negative opinion. We know that. All the ministries gave a negative opinion and in the ruling coalition there are many who, figuratively speaking, are very pinched with their teeth, grinding their teeth on this law. There's a lot of anti-constitutional standards, some of which I've listed, we'll talk more. I'll remind you, somehow, I'm always going to have a mildly digression, but we must remind you that in the discussion of the government law, and you remember it, I suppose, because it was your concern, right from your party, it's never going to be forgotten, the amendment has come that this ministry is not intended to be abolished, or that it's not what it's meant to be, and only by the intervention of MPs from your ruling coalition, from the Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians, to say so, you've formed this ministry, and now, in my opinion, you're a kind of, I don't know how to express myself, but I think that in your ministry, a certain national minority can now be able to choose for their rights, I'm deeply convinced, for your wishes, not your rights. When we talk about the council's jurisdiction, it's very important. You don't really talk about jurisdiction, you tell the authorities, but when you see what all the advice now has, it's powers, it's not jurisdiction anymore. It's very dangerous. Why? Because acquired rights from the Constitution cannot be diminished. We know that. Does this mean that these powers can never be lifted again, even if they prove to be dysfunctional or bad? In my opinion, this law deeply corresponds with the anti-constitutional proposal of the AP Vojvodina Statute, and I will speak more in the debate on amendments. Someone has already mentioned it, my opinion is that there is no civil constitutionality and civil democracy here, that you created, just as someone said, tribal associations that are given more than great powers. I am truly convinced that this bill can bring a lot of problems, that it is more than inconclusive, that it spreads and skips everything about cultural autonomy and that it goes into something very dangerous, and that it also represents a single call of something that doesn't lead to the preservation of the state, something that can cause big problems if someone wants to play with the abuses of this kind of text that you have brought here.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-21-0.u24686	The word is Mrs. Marina Toman.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-21-0.u24687	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Minister, after many years of delay, there is a law on national councils of national minorities. In 2002, the Law on the Protection of Freedom and the Rights of National Minorities envisioned the formation of national councils and the adoption of laws. It's really been many years since. The SRS considers that the law on national councils of national minorities is necessary, especially because the Constitution in its Article 75 states that members of national minorities, in order to exercise the right to self-government in culture, education, notification and official use of language and letter, can choose their national councils. The scandalous fact is that the law is only today in the process. The scandalous fact is that after so many years of stories, controversy, debate and work is in this form, with many illogicalities, in front of MPs. The law lays down the procedure for the selection of national councils, competences, funding, assets, etc. However, in this form in which he is present today, he is unacceptable to us. We don't argue that the law is necessary, but not the law in this form. The law is lacking, contradictory, confusing, incompatible with some other laws, which will reflect its application in practice. In fact, we can say that it is a rather ambitious pilot project that will have to suffer certain changes and changes in some foreseeable time. I think at this point in fact no one can say with certainty that its implementation, when certain of its provisions are at stake, will appear in practice. I don't think you can say that for sure either. After so many years of announcements, waitings, alignments, legal gaps, we really expected much better legal solutions. In short, these are some of the reasons why the SRS won't vote for this law. My fellow lawyers, Krasic and Martinovic, will deal more with this legal harmonisation, i.e. inconsistency with other laws. In a formal sense, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia guarantees the highest possible rights of the national minority. One whole part of the Constitution is dedicated to human and minority rights and freedoms. In this sense, the blade of our criticism is not directed at the Constitution or to formal legal provisions, but to the exercise of these rights, i.e. provisions in practice. Of course, we do not claim that this is only the case when minority rights are at stake, because we view minority members as an integral part of this society. It is a general phenomenon that reflects and reflects on the lives of all citizens of Serbia, and therefore also on members of national minorities. Members of national minorities by the Constitution and laws, and now this bill, are guaranteed, to repeat, certain rights in the fields of culture, education, communication and official use of languages and letters, etc. There are ways to achieve them. "If the state gives the national communities the right to form advice, then it must also give them logistics so that these tips can live," you said, Minister Chiplic. However, what kind of logistics can the state provide, which is threatened by bankruptcy because of a disastrously driven economic policy, which can provide logistical support to national councils? I mean that part of implementing this law in practice. The overall situation in the country and how it will affect the exercise of the rights of national councils, i.e. minorities in practice. The government, which out of the thunderous stories of the EU, better life, travel, the unrealistic goal of preserving KIM and entering the EU, doting foreign car companies with enormous debt forgets the basic problems of society, forgets its social and economic aspects, and cannot be a good partner to Serbian citizens and cannot adequately participate in the exercise of their rights, primarily the right to a better life, to a man's life worth living. And as the Constitution requires, human dignity was uncut, it was a Serb, Slovak, Hungarian, Muslim, etc. By accepting the devastating conditions of the IMF, the government, and Mr. Chiplic, you are an integral part of it, on average, reduces each ministry by about 25%. On the one hand, you propose a law that requires a lot of money, and on the other hand, you have less money at your disposal in the budget. It's a purely contradictory matter. Even existing obligations could not be financed, let alone these obligations. I'll give you one example. In the first election year for the education activities of the special polling list, the translation of materials, the production of forms will need to provide funds of about five million dinars. Because of this claim, as you said, Minister Chiplic, 'with this bill of law, we can say that the country that is first in the region in this way has defined the minority self-government in a detailed and broad way', it causes skepticism and toothache. To remind you, funds to finance the work of national councils are provided from the budget of the Republic of Serbia, the Autonomous province, local self-government, donations and other revenues. The law and its provisions are only one part of the story of the exercise of minority rights. The second part is their achievement in practice, the exercise of rights as well as all Serbian citizens. Today, I want to say openly, the Slovaks in Serbia as a national minority are not at risk, but are threatened as people, like citizens of Serbia who are having a hard time living, who have no money to pay their bills, to train their children, who are troubled by unemployment, not to mention buying newspapers and books in their native language, who also, like other Serbian citizens, have no money for the theatre, which every year because of a small birth rate, as well as a majority people, has less and less. I have set an example of Slovakia, but the same problems are torturing and destroying the lives of all Serbian citizens, whether they are Serbs, Slovaks, Hungarians, Romanians, Muslims. Not to mention Roma, whose most of them are still steps away from having a dream about a normal life. That's why this law will be just another dead letter on paper. Besides, Minister, you've made similar statements that support our views. ''If there were no social problems, the national communities would only have a sweet pain in the ass how to realise and exploit their rights. ''We have seen that national minorities, as well as other citizens of Serbia, do not, as you say, have this sweet torment, but have huge existential problems. The draft law on national minority councils stipulates that the Republic, AP Vojvodina or local self-government can transfer in general or partly founding rights to social councils in the fields of education, culture, communication. Minister, you have stated that this law introduces a self-government in the exercise of the rights of national minorities, where national councils will have more rights, but also more obligations. Will national councils in all these areas be able to replace through donations a lack of funding from the budget? Of course not. On the other hand, we need to consider another fact. National councils can count from 15 to 35 members, a relatively small number of people in order to adequately do such a demanding and extensive job. The basic problem that the proposed law was to address is to regulate jurisdiction and create conditions for democratic selection of national councils. The Proposer has decided to compromise. The law stipulates that national minorities themselves decide whether to give priority to selecting members of the National Council to direct elections or to the Electoral Assembly. However, it is unclear and not defined how national minorities will set priorities. It is not about the association of citizens, whose members can be gathered in one place and by agreement or voting to make a decision. It's about national minorities. Will every member of the national minority who wishes to do so be able to participate in making such an important decision? If he wishes to, in what way he will participate in making that decision, or yet the decision of the national minority on behalf of the national minorities will make national advice, of course, if they are already formed or some other groups of citizens, associations, etc. So, from the announcement that the law will guarantee that the election is the result of the joint will of all members of a particular national minority there is nothing. The position mentioned above is also too high because of the stance that requires that direct elections can be held if, by the day of the vote, a certain number of members of the national minority are entered in the special electoral list. If that condition fails, it goes to the electoral congregation. The education of a special polling list of national minorities also raises major problems. That was also said by MPs from other parliamentary groups. On the basis of the draft law, any citizen with voting law, a member of a national minority, may request in writing a special form to be entered in a special electoral list of the relevant national minorities. So, if he wants to exercise his right to vote, he has to declare his nationality by enrolling in a special voter's list. How's that gonna look in practice? Many will give up at the start, which is because of resistance to administration, which is due to lack of time, which is because of the fear of misuse of data from a special polling list, which is because of the notion that there is a kind of discrimination. Some people just won't do it for the sake of ignorance. The ministry can also launch a campaign through public information funds that has started the education of a special polling list, as the bill also requires. I don't see that giving you the expected results. Otherwise, I'd like you to answer my question – what will it be like to campaign that will cost 200,000 dinars? I think I've seen that data well, and I just can't imagine that campaign. It probably won't look like anything. Just imagine a Roma population, whose members, unfortunately, mostly live in very difficult material conditions, on the border or below the lower limit of poverty, without electricity, water, on watching television, listening to radio or buying daily presses that we don't even talk about. It will take many years for all those who want national councils to be chosen directly to overcome all obstacles in the way that the law has prescribed and exercise that right. So far, many members of national councils will choose through an electoral assembly that has suffered a lot of criticism in recent years. Also, I must point out that the SRS, as a party that has members of national minorities in its ranks, represents the view that the list promoter, i.e. that they can participate in the elections, in addition to the political organisations of national minorities, and other political organisations. All members of national minorities, regardless of political membership, must have the opportunity to participate in the elections. No one is to be rejected, i.e. to be selected by political membership, of course, if all those participating in the elections are struggling to exercise the rights of national minorities. When it comes to the area of education, I'm going to single out a segment here. National councils will be able to give an opinion to the Minister of Education in the process of establishing a network of secondary schools and institutions of student and student standards, which is very important. We who come from multinational environments where there is a secondary school, where the teaching is done in the language of a national minority, know that the population there is afraid that the state will abolish school or department due to the reduction of the number of students. Indeed, an important shift relative to, say, so-called. The law on court seats, it's not called that, but it's so appointed to the public. When, overnight, many courts, including those in multinational communities with a very long tradition, courts that were examples, not only in Serbia, but also in Europe, are either in respect of the rights of national minorities or have become judicial units or have been abolished. I can give an example, say, of the municipalities of Kovačica, in which Hungarians, Romanians, Roma, etc. live next to the Serbs. and the Slovaks, and in whose court, over 100 years old, there were more languages in official use. The state then did not want to respect the opinion of representatives of national minorities. I think it's done invaluable damage to the mentioned environments, to individual members of the national minorities. This law introduces another form of regulation of relations between competent national authorities and national minorities, but there is still a fear. Will the law be respected in practice, how will the law be implemented in practice? Whether its application will solve the problems that arise in another aspect. Now I will single out – national minorities in recent years are facing the problem of lack of teaching staff to teach in the native language from individual subjects. Unless something is done, and the ministers think you're familiar with this problem, in this field, I think we're going to get into a situation where we're going to have schools, but unfortunately, there won't be anyone in them to teach. Under the bill, the National Council can scholarship students, or students from its own resources. This problem could indeed be solved this way, because national councils still have the best view of the situation. However, the problem of money shortages will prevent them, and this again leads us to a poor economic policy of government, that is, to look for new models to solve these problems. The issue of information, i.e. notification in the language of national minorities, is also a very important issue and we will talk about it when amendments are involved, and my colleagues will also speak. Finally, once again, the law on national councils of national minorities is necessary, not because national minorities in Serbia have been threatened and denied some rights, but above all, in order to regulate this very important area for our society and the state more precisely because of this existing legal gap that existed. However, such a bill, confused, in some parts contradictory, in some parts unspeakable, is unacceptable to us.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-21-0.u24688	The word is made by the head of the Parliamentary Group of Minority Mr. Balin Pastor.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-21-0.u24689	Madam President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I am very happy that today on the agenda of the National Assembly we have a bill on national councils of national minorities. I'm almost, if you'll allow me, to begin like this myself, two and a half years of Parliament and almost no topic has been on the agenda when in my speech I haven't touched the need to pass a law on national councils. There was not a single assembly address almost when I failed to point out that, unfortunately, the legal regulations on the protection of the rights and freedom of national minorities were not rounded up in Serbia, as no law on national councils was passed. Now it has also proved that we were right that it is necessary for the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights to exist in Serbia. I am convinced that without this ministry today we would not have a draft law on national councils on the agenda of the National Assembly, because we have seen in previous years that when there is no Ministry of Human and Minority Rights and when every ministry in some way on paper deals with the issue of the protection of the rights and freedoms of national minorities, then in real life no one deals with this issue and simply there is no state body who would have submitted a bill on national councils to the National Assembly for adoption. This law is one of the most important laws that the National Assembly will bring to this assembly. We believe that the adoption of this law will contribute to the non-exposure of some kind of flat-rate on the rights and freedom of national minorities in Serbia. You know very well, Mr. Minister, that you can hear two kinds of opinions. In one species, the rights of members of national minorities are at the highest possible level, there are no problems, there are no shortcomings in legal regulation, and of course we cannot represent that position because it does not correspond to reality. On the other hand, there's another extreme that nothing's wrong with. Members of national minorities do not enjoy any rights, rights are not respected, and we cannot agree on that either, and this is not the right situation. The real situation is that Serbia simply has to pass a law on national councils of national minorities under the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, because without the adoption of the law, the legal legislation is not surrounded. It is not surrounded by the fact that, without this law, members of national minorities are prevented from enjoying collective rights. It is disabled because without this law, the question of how to choose the law of the National Council is not regulated, the competence of the National Council and how to finance the National Council is not regulated. It is necessary for these areas to be governed by law, not regulation or some regulation. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia in Article 75 says – in order to exercise the right to self-government in culture, education, communication and official use of language and letters, members of national minorities can choose their national councils in accordance with the law. Now this law is being passed these days and I hope it will be passed by the end of July. This is necessary in order for national councils as partners of the state to function, so that members of national minorities can enjoy collective rights and have the right to form their minority self-government, as the highest body of the personal or cultural autonomy of a national minority. I hope, of course, that this law will be passed by a vast majority, as was the case in 2002, when the law was passed in this same hall, then federal, on the protection of the rights and freedom of national minorities. After listening to the opposition's arguments, I am not sure that this law will be passed by majority, but it would certainly mean well for members of national minorities and for the whole of Serbia if this law were passed not with 126 or 128 votes, but with more votes for it. Of course, this law cannot be the answer to all the problems that national councils have, and in particular cannot be the answer to the unquestionably existing economic problems faced by members of national minorities, such as those problems and members of the Serbian people, but it will certainly be good if this law is passed, not because the lack of this law has been mentioned in a negative context in all reports for years both the EU and the Council of Europe. It shouldn't be the main reason we have to pass this law. This law should not be passed because some task is on its way to EU membership, it should be brought solely because it is our constitutional obligation and because it will contribute to a better and greater enjoyment of the collective rights of members of the national minorities guaranteed by the Constitution. Of course, we don't consider this bill ideal. There is no law to be made that will correspond to the same extent and members of those national communities that number several thousand members and those national communities that have hundreds of members, but we believe that the proposed text is satisfactory for all national communities in Serbia and therefore we believe that it should certainly be passed. I said it wasn't ideal. It is not ideal because, unfortunately, this law does not contain financial guarantees, as we wanted it to contain. It may not contain all the responsibilities we wanted it to contain, but it will certainly contain responsibilities based on which we will be able to say that in Serbia there are the highest authorities of the cultural autonomy of certain national minorities, certain national communities. That there are national councils that can represent the interests of the national minorities concerned in the field of education, culture, official use of language and education, and certainly there will be national advice that will best be taken care of by those institutions that are undoubtedly important for members of national communities. The essence of cultural or personal autonomy is that the national community takes care of its institutions independently through legally elected representatives. This makes this law possible and therefore we will support the proposal for a law on national councils of national minorities. I must also say that the Hungarian National Community is certainly a supporter of direct elections and I am convinced that the Hungarian National Council will be elected on the basis of direct elections, but we also believe that it is good that an alternative has been left for the electoral elections, not because of us, but because of those national communities that cannot and do not want to organise direct elections for the national council of national minorities. In the end, I'd like to point out a problem that, unfortunately, exists. We've been witnessing this the last few days. This is a possible conflict between the provisions of this law, which concerns the jurisdiction of national councils, in relation to other laws in the field of education, culture or information. At this session of the National Assembly there is also a bill on the basis of the education and education system. In addition, on the agenda of this session of the National Assembly there is also a proposal for a law on textbooks and other teaching tools, as well as a proposal for a law on culture. It would certainly be good if the resolutions of these several laws were fully in line and we did not come into a situation where certain specific laws were in conflict with this law, once this law was passed in this form. For this reason, I think we should make an additional effort to address some shortcomings, to remove confusion and that we all understand that the law on national councils is an exception and that the other laws concerning education, culture, official use of language and information in the languages of national minorities should be in accordance with this law on national councils.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-21-0.u24690	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. The word is Mr. Minister Svetozar Ciplic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-21-0.u24691	Dear Presidents, honourable MPs and MPs, I think that during the debate so far, a large part of the circumstances affecting the writing of the law have affected why this law has very legal solutions, to a large extent, and the fact that we may have faced the way in which national councils are thought or understood what they are, or what minority self-government is. Of course, I do not have any valuable determination in the evaluation, but I only find that, to a large extent, from 2002 to 2009, this law or the law of this kind has not been passed, precisely because the people who participated in it were in writing, and sometimes in order to pass such a law, they gave up because of the system of exceptions. It is far easier after 2006 to draft a bill like this, as the founder has already established the frameworks of minority self-government. What matters is this. It is said that the 2006 Constitution of the Republic of Serbia guarantees and guarantees national minorities all the rights in the work of national minorities, which all together do what we say and we say that it is a minority self-government, and that it is not done, that this law is not adopted either because of fashion, nor because, according to some estimates, the regulatory position of national minorities would now be further improved, nor because of that, and it is incorrect, that this law is as a mandatory law on the map of the road to the EU. No, this is a constitutional obligation, because this is a constitutional guarantee, because the constitution speaks of minority self-government. On the other hand, the nature of minority self-government, the nature of national councils, is such that there are more aspects, that national councils, as so far, and especially so far, although they speak of cultural autonomy, namely the minority self-government in the domain of culture, education and information, are the fact that they represent a means for the realisation of constitutional rights have political authority, as they have so far, even though they have been formed under the rule and although they have been formed under the Law on the Protection of Freedom and Rights of National Minorities. It's just a notorious fact, whether I agree with it or not. In the opening statement, I said, as a member of the Serbian people, I cannot experience it, but what I can experience from the talks with members of the national minorities who participated in the writing of the law, this is freedom or form of freedom that national minorities assume responsibility for the state of enforcement of constitutional guarantees for their minority rights. So it's not just a right. These are, first of all, obligations and responsibilities. One of the elements that may be important to all of us, who belong to the majority people or who do not participate in the work of national councils, is the fact that in a large number of national councils, people have already given up their work on national councils. There is certainly a certain part of what is called political authority, but the national advice as they have so far functioned, how the Constitution predicted them and how this law predicted them by a being, above all, a means and a mechanism which, depending on how much they will achieve and ensure that members of the national minorities are granted the Constitution of guaranteed rights, so much will be thrown out by the criticism of members of their national community. So this is a minority self-government, and it is a fact that the 2006 Constitution of the Republic of Serbia guaranteed national minorities that they could, have the freedom to choose national councils and themselves, in what the Constitution guarantees, grow older, with co-operation with the state. Their organization, their choice, their responsibility. There are no minor and full-time national minorities. All of them on their own, and it's nothing new, they can and have the right to take care of themselves, no matter how big they are, no matter how small they are. As they have no obligation to form national councils. There's something else that matters. I was expecting, believing, and I was hoping that I wouldn't hear here the kind of argument from which xenophobia is being conducted or proposed, that there are dangerous and less dangerous national minorities, or that there are very dangerous powers that are prescribed in the law because something dangerous can come out of it. I believed I wouldn't hear it, and I'm sorry I heard it. (President: Mrs. Radeta, I would ask you not to disturb the minister as he speaks.) Please allow him to speak. If you want to answer it, answer it, you'll get the word. I heard what I heard, and I wrote it down. I hope that the existing practice that national councils are already living, perhaps living not too close to the eyes of the public, the eyes of the centres, since national councils are rarely which in Belgrade and registered, they live in a detachment, work detachable, such as minorities across Serbia. I hope that this kind of argumentation and evaluation will not cast a shadow on this law, the Constitution of Serbia that guarantees it when it comes to minority self-government. I hope that this assembly debate will be dedicated to what this bill is perhaps the most needed, and this is a debate over some of the solutions that we have, possibly, had a dilemma about, in order to hear an opinion that can, by further argument, improve the text of the law or confirm such a version of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-21-0.u24692	Thank you, Mr. Minister. I shall inform you that, pursuant to Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, until the opening of the principled search, submitted a written application for a word to the majority of parliamentary groups, except for G 17 plus and PUPS, all other parliamentary groups. I give my word to Mr. Riza Halimi.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-21-0.u24693	Mr. Minister, first of all, I'd like to welcome the fact that there's finally been a procedure for the adoption of this law. I express my concern that at the speed at which we have several basic laws, which are covered by this law, there may be an incomplete alignment between this and other basic laws, above all education. And in this case, the national symbol of the council, not -- the national holiday, in fact, the national symbols that are historically built and cannot be established through any body, and in this case the advice of the national minority. There remains gaps around the effective participation of minorities in public life, because we have something in art. The 21st law of 2002, which unfortunately remained unfinished here. Here I am thinking, first of all, about the work concerning the representative legislative authority and the lack of connection with the law on elections and the possibility for minorities to remain without a legitimate representative in the highest legislative body at certain times. You have practice with the Roma who are in the previous meeting have two MPs, now they have none. It is possible that, in the next session, it remains without a representative of Albanians, depending on how pre-election things will take place, so I think that there is an unsecured or undetermined space left in that part, or some practice that would allow minorities in this effective participation in public life to be more adequately represented. In this domain, I think that we should also see through the amendments as much as the law and basic laws themselves can be corrected, and I am talking about education, because it is possible that we are in practice to come up with really uncertain situations that can bring us back to the situation that we have so far, and in the case of Albanians in the Presevo Valley, they absolutely have no solutions to a number of education problems. I'm afraid now when it comes to educational national councils, an education and education service, that as these laws are formulated, almost all responsibility is given to the national council. On the one hand, it allows for the possibility of setting up, but it is quite broadly that in practice we can happen to all these problems in the field of programs and textbooks when schools are in Serbian we have a number of professional bodies that I mentioned a few times, institutions, and that only the national minority council is created as a representative, or with some political remarks, to which there are objections here. First of all, I would like to be professional at the highest level, but only globally with one national council, I am afraid that without a narrow, more concrete view of opportunities and more concrete institutions, even in my view, subcommittees and lower levels of these mentioned educational bodies, such as the National Educational Council and the Training Institute, that some solutions can be found more adequately through the amendment. Thank you. I'm leaving my colleagues a little time.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-21-0.u24694	The word is Mrs. Zlata Djeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-21-0.u24695	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People, Mr. Minister, the Honorable Madam President, I will speak, first of all, only of the facts that stand when it comes to national minorities and those we must take to heart in order to make it easier to determine ourselves according to the law that is before us, which is extremely important, not only for national minorities but for Serbia at this time. Serbia belongs to countries with a relatively heterogeneous ethnic structure of the population. According to the last census of the population of 2002, in Serbia without Kosovo of 7,498,000 Serbian citizens account for close to 83% of the total population, and the rest of the population are members of minority groups: Hungarians, Bosniaks, Roma, Yugoslav, Croats, Montenegrins, Albanians, Slovaks, Vlasi, Romanians, Macedonians, Bulgarians, and we are coming to see the 2002 census as 21 national minorities in Serbia. It should be noted that the territorial dispersion of national minorities is not equal. In central Serbia, every tenth, and in Vojvodina, every third resident is a member of some of the minority national communities. Ethnic dispersion is also not equal in the territory of all Serbia. In southern Serbia, Albanians, in southeastern Serbia along the border with Bulgaria, mostly lived in two municipalities, while Bosniaks were mostly in the Sandzak region, in the southwest of Serbia, and Vlasi in the southeastern part of Serbia. In Vojvodina, most Hungarians, Croats, Slovaks, Yugoslavs, Romanians, Bunjevac and Russia are concentrated. Only the Roma population in a significant number lives on the entire territory of Serbia. As far as the legislative framework is concerned, basic minority rights have been guaranteed by the Constitution and the laws that have been passed in the Federal and Republic Assembly in the last decade. First of all, rights to political organisation, the right to education, preservation and cultural development, the right to the official use of languages and letters and the right to information in the native language are guaranteed. The key document of domestic legislation certainly regulates the 2006 Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which defines Serbia as the state of the Serbian people and all citizens living in it. In a special section – rights of members of national minorities, rights of minorities, individual and collectives are guaranteed. Article 75 provides for the creation of national councils of national minorities to exercise the right to self-government in culture, education, communication and official use of language and letter. Article 20 provides that the level of minority rights reached cannot be reduced. The Minority Protection Act gives very great authority to national councils on the plan for protection and achievement of minority rights. When it comes to the implementation of minority rights, the decades-long tradition in the institutional and legislative arrangement of national minorities' rights in Vojvodina is, above all, the basis of today's minority sensual and efficient behaviour of the duchy authorities, as well as the more active relationship between the duchy minorities towards issues of preserving their own identity. The right to the official use of the language, guaranteed by the Constitution, in Vojvodina, is also in official use by Hungarian, Slovak, Romanian, Croatian and Russian. One or more languages of national minorities in official use are in 38 of the 45 Vojvodina municipalities. In two municipalities in southern Serbia, the official use of the Albanian language is, and in two other municipalities in eastern Serbia, the Bulgarian language. The Bosniak language is officially used in three municipalities in southwestern Serbia. The laws passed in 2000, 2002, 2003 and 2006 finally received some application in Serbia's legislation. I think our 2006 Constitution has allowed further development, improvement and affirmation of the rights of national minorities. The official use of languages and letters for members of national minorities is very widespread. This applies to the use of language in the authorities of local self-government and state administrations, courts and police, even in those municipalities where the minority population reaches a high level in the general population of the local community. In the AP Vojvodina, members of the Hungarian minority can be educated in their own language in 78 primary and 30 secondary schools, and in most of them the teaching is bilingual. Education in Hungarian covers years ago more than 77% of students from this community at primary school level and over 65 grades in high school. The course in Hungary is held at three higher schools, the Hungarian language and literature departments in Belgrade and Novi Sad and three more Vojvodina universities. The Faculty of Teachers in Hungarian was opened in 2006 in Subotica. The situation in the education of members of other national minorities in Vojvodina is like this: in its language the primary school is attended by about 73% of Slovaks and about 20% of Slovaks in secondary schools; the primary school is attended by about 57% of Romanians, while the secondary school is attended by about 27% of Romanians; the Russian school includes about 50% of primary school students and less than 1% of secondary school age; Croatian language education takes place in several elementary schools in the Saturday municipality, first of all, and departments are opened in other municipalities in Vojvodina. So, language and literature departments at the Faculty of Philosophy in Novi Sad are open to all languages of national minorities living in Vojvodina, except for the Roma language. The subject of Macedonian language with elements of national culture and Bulgarian language with elements of national culture have been handed over since 2006 to two Vojvodina schools. Van Vojvodina's education in minority languages exists in Presevo and Bujanovac, exists in Bosilegrad and Bosniak minorities in three municipalities in southwestern Serbia. The right to full and impartial information in the native language is a very important right guaranteed by the Constitution. This right is governed and determined by Article 17. The Law on the Protection of Freedom and the Rights of National Minorities. In Serbia, public information is achieved, along with the Serbian language, and in Hungarian, Slovak Romanian, Russian, Roma, Croatian, Ukrainian, Czech, German, Macedonian, Bulgarian, Albanian, Vlach and Bunjevac language. There are about 160 printed and electronic media in the Republic of Serbia that fully or partly inform the public in the languages of national minorities. Of that number in the AP Vojvodina about 140, and in central Serbia 20. If we exclude the media in Sandzak, radio programs broadcast 84 stations, 72 in Vojvodina, and 12 in central Serbia. Radio programs are mostly local, and rarely are information in minority languages of service character or have the character of Sunday chronicles. The TV programme broadcasts 32 TVs, 27 in Vojvodina, and five in the rest of Serbia. Media in minority languages are exposed to strong challenges in the current media privatisation process. That's what the problem is, the media's market business. The right to participate in public life and equality in public service employment is also prescribed by Article 21 of the Law on the Protection of Minorities, and is expected to take care of the national composition of the population, the appropriate representation and the knowledge of the language spoken in the field of authorities and services when it comes to public service employment. Amendments to the 2004 Law on the Selection of People's MPs have abolished a 5% vote vote on political parties of national minorities, so that the parties of the national minorities could be more easily represented in the parliament of the Republic of Serbia, and they are. It is necessary to continue a clear state strategy towards minorities, multiculturalism and interculturalism. Starting with positive and promising solutions that today have the majority support in the world, Serbia should find optimal and functional models to regulate the relations of the minority and the majority, not only because of the country's stability policy, but for reasons that require a fair regulation of the state and society. We believe in the NS that we should continue to cultivate and be proud of our multiethnicity, our multiculturalism, our multi-confessionalism and that this is one of our wealth and that the real Serbia is the happy Serbia in which all its citizens are equally happy, happy, satisfied. And happiness, the satisfaction and success of all Serbian citizens lies in the first fundamental right of man to have the right to work and to live from his work. So this is the right that is equally threatened with all those who live at this moment in Serbia and will continue to insist on it. Of course, I would only tell you that this government, which we expect primarily to be responsible for the government, not national or social responsibility, but primarily in every respect, should make sure that it informs the public of Serbia about the state of the Serbs living as a national minority in the environment and that they feel this concern of the state and of their ethnicity as some possible support that is very important. I'm telling you this as someone who has a long, life-long experience in co-existence and co-existence with other national minorities. And let me tell you a little detail, I live in Sombor in the north of Vojvodina, on the street, as my Bacvans say, which has sixty numbers or sixty numbers and, for no reason, we live very respected Serbs, Croats, Hungarians, Slovenians, Germans and Roma, and you won't believe even one American from a few years ago.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-21-0.u24696	He has the word Mr. Gjorge Milicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-21-0.u24697	The Honorable Madam Chairman, the Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Ministers, the Honorable Representatives of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at the very beginning, I would like to say something that has been said many times, and these are the reasons for the adoption of this law. Namely, the reasons for the adoption of this law, in addition to those mentioned, arise primarily from the commitments made by ratification of international contracts, especially those relating to guarantees of rights and freedoms, and in particular the rights of national minorities, as well as the obligations to meet the standards for the stabilisation and accession of the EU. So the international legal framework for the protection of minority rights in the Republic of Serbia is made up of UN documents and the Council of Europe. Of course, the reasons for the adoption of this law stem from the very Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, as well as from the provisions of the Law on the Protection of the Rights and Freedom of National Minorities. The fundamental problem actually proposed by the law should be addressed, as stated among other things in the legal explanation, is regulation of jurisdiction and the creation of conditions for the democratic selection of national councils, which will guarantee that this choice is the result of the joint will of all members of a particular national community. I would also like to say that the SPS-Single Serbia parliamentary group supports the goal sought by adopting this legislative proposal - which is respect for the difference between national minorities and their specificities. Of course, we think it is a good thing that the draft of this law included representatives of the council of national minorities, as we could hear among other things. This legislative proposal, in our opinion, certainly represents a huge step forward in the sense that the law will provide a good basis for successfully resolving and remaining the life issues of national minorities in the coming period. We think it is good that we are the first state in the region, as is said among other things, which in one such detailed and precise way defines the minority self-government. I agree entirely with a finding that could be heard that it is actually important that the lives of national communities will not be taken into consideration by national councils, but are only a mechanism that will try to operate on all possible forms of minority self-government. Essentially, as is said among other things, this legislative proposal regulates: the choice and jurisdiction of national minorities, as well as the electoral list and funding and assets. It is also very important that national councils will now operate under the law, not regulations, and we really want to believe that this will significantly reduce the tensions and problems that have been in operation so far. There are therefore two ways of selecting members of national minorities - direct and electronic. When it comes to the SPS-Animal Serbia parliamentary group, on issues related to this topic, our authorised representative spoke, and I have no intention of repeating it. As far as the voter lists are concerned, the proposal is that those advices organised in the direct elections have special lists, while those whose members are elected electronically will not have special voting lists. When it comes to powers, the most significant newspaper is that the national council will no longer have the character of NGOs, but social organisations with clear powers, so become part of the state structure, which we believe is also extremely important. In this legislative proposal, in our opinion, I would say quite clearly and completely precisely that certain responsibilities of the council are in four extremely important areas, and that was the case - information, education, culture and preservation of languages and letters. I would also like to say that the National Council brings and changes independently through its bodies -- statutes, financial plans, financial reports, final accounts, and it has its own assets. We really want to believe that the proposed legal solution that is before us today is the mechanism, that is, the basis for which what the Constitution of the Republic will guarantee through the law, i.e. to obtain certain legitimacy. As far as the field of information is concerned, I want to believe that after a quality debate in the Republic's parliament, the confusion and criticisms that exist in the public today will be removed, i.e. a measure will be found, or a legal framework, so that, on the one hand, the legal framework for the functioning of the media in Serbia, and on the other, that there is an understanding for the interests of national councils, that the media in minority languages is functioning, i.e. not being shut down. Finally, I would like to say that the SPS-Single Serbia parliamentary group will support the proposed legislative solution, and in the next period of time we will monitor the effects of this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-21-0.u24698	The secretary general of RTS informed us that today July 21st and tomorrow July 22nd there will be no direct transmission from 16:30 p.m. The word is from Vice President Judita Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-21-0.u24699	Dear Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the LDP, as it has pointed out many times so far, welcomes every kind of tolerance, every kind of effort of a state to make life in that country acceptable to the entire population, both for the majority people and for the national minorities. That's actually the main reason LDP is going to vote for this bill. Not because we have absolute confidence in this law as the best possible of all laws, but because we find certain good solutions in it and we understand that it is necessary for this law to be passed, given that there is a constitutional framework, a constitutional basis for this, an international and legal framework, and that domestic legislation, therefore the laws that already exist are in fact the obligation to adopt and such a law on national councils of national minorities. In particular, I would draw attention to the legislator that national minorities are one of the specific values of one state and one community, because these national communities, national minorities, represent a difference compared to the majority, so that the majority can, through these differences, acquire certain qualities in development and their majority community. For this reason, it is necessary to tolerate, it is necessary to positively discriminate against the national minority, or all national minorities that exist and live in Serbia. This positive discrimination is needed for the reason that the majority people must accept the fact that there are also minority peoples living next to them, so the peoples who are practically dependent on the majority because of their situation, so they are always more vulnerable and they need this positive discrimination, in order to achieve those rights that they already have, which already have a majority people, in particular the Serbian people. First of all, it is necessary to work to integrate national minorities into the community, into this society, not to assimilate. Assimilation means the disappearance of a national minority and it is not good for the state or society, and integration means that a good citizen is obtained, a citizen who can cultivate his culture, which can be educated in his native language, which can be informed in his native language, and hence his interaction, his reaction to what the state has given him, the majority people, is positive. This is what Serbia needs after the 1990s, after all we've been through, after the great intolerance we've lived in in the past tens of years. For this reason, I would draw particular attention to this article of this 70th Law on National Councils. I don't think it's a good solution in this article to point 1 which, in fact, as a proposing voter, only provides for a political organisation of national minorities. In this way, it discriminates against all other political organisations, and there are national minorities in other political organisations. This has certain consequences for society and for the work of the National Council, because the political organisation has its own agenda, has its own strategy and, normally, that this political programme, through its members in the national council, will promote. By limiting the political programme of a single national minority's political option, you effectively exclude all other possible political programmes, and this is also important to you in the sphere of culture, both in the field of education and in the field of information about national minorities. So it is necessary that in this sphere too, and in this domain of national councils we also have multiculturality, because it is not just a culture of one kind of national minority, this culture can be very diverse, and it will be more diverse if we allow other political options to be promoted through these national councils. By limiting all this to national minorities and their political agenda, I think it is not a good solution for the very community of national minorities. It is one of the main concerns, and it seems to me that colleagues from other MPs' clubs are quite in agreement with this LDP issue, because we are even against any xenophobia, including those xenophobias that are being dragged through this law on national minority councils, which should actually go in the direction of a positive discrimination, a positive relationship with national minorities. Otherwise, I must say, Mr. Minister, on several occasions, you specifically pointed out your belongings to the Serbian people. I welcome that, indeed, and I have no personal objection to that, but I would like to remind you that you are a civil servant, you are a minister in one country, in one government, and I simply cannot welcome that fact that you point out that you are a national member. That's not good, and I don't think that's necessary, because you're primarily here as a representative of the government, not as a representative of a nation. So that's actually what you just often forget. Yes, we have positive legislation, we have positive solutions in the Constitution, we respect the international legal framework, and we have ratified many international agreements regarding the rights of national minorities, but often, perhaps undetectable, some premise is being drawn from which it can be concluded that it is very difficult to give up on things to simplify and that we believe that national minorities through this new institutional solution will be taken care of. We forget that, in fact, the basic objective and strategy that should exist is the integration of the national minority. I'd like to remind you of a very careless event. A few years ago when we elected the president of the state, you remember that the current president was then very strangely commenting on the candidacy of a presidential candidate who was run by a national minority party. So I'd like to ask you a question would that be really strange if man and a member of the national minority were to become president of the state? Is that a problem? I don't think that's a problem, if we really have serious intentions and we really think that we are working on this integration that is necessary for the full functionality of our society and our country, and when we talk about integration, we are talking about the integration of all citizens of Serbia, regardless of nationality. So, once again, I underline that LDP supports this law. He believes that although not all solutions are good in it, we have submitted amendments, yet it is one step forward in resolving the issue of national minorities in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-21-0.u24700	Mr. Djura Muchenski has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-21-0.u24701	Dear Presidents, the Honorable Presidency, Mr Minister, members of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, honourable citizens, I would like to express my extraordinary personal satisfaction that as an MP, a citizen of the Serbian state and a member of the Russian national community, who has lived with other communities in these areas for more than 260 years, I have participated in the adoption of the most important law that regulates the position of members of national minorities. I have the great pleasure that, together with other colleagues here and members of national minorities who participate in Parliament's work and thus make one quality contribution, we all participate in the adoption of one law together, because I think it is important to reach a broad consensus on the issues that regulate this law. This consensus is important to be as widespread as possible. It is hard to say that everyone accepts it, although it would be great, but it would be very good to accept it as many parliamentary groups as possible, because it will make it easier for them to liven up the law and better quality to address one important issue, which is the issue of the position of national minorities in our country. It is important to stress that this law has passed a broad public debate, that it has been attended by many representatives, both of the national communities living in these areas, and by representatives of the majority people, who are also interested and who have made their remarks and who have the right to decide on all these important issues. In addition to the general rights defined in the Constitution, which concern all citizens, the Constitution guarantees the collective rights of national minorities to directly or indirectly decide or participate in decisions on important issues for their national community, which are issues of education, culture, communication and language use. I will look back in my discussion on two important topics regarding this law. One topic is to define the choice of national councils, and another is the issue of the competence of national councils. As regards the competence of the National Council, this law regulates certain general competences, such as the issue of statutes to be adopted by the national council, where it should define its work, such as the question of the availability of property, such as the question of determining national symbols, signs and holidays, as well as the establishment of institutions, enterprises and all that is important for a national community. The issue of education is another important thing, I think, and I would almost dare say that it is also perhaps the most significant, because the issue of education is very important for the survival of one national community and all that education means for one national community in every sense. National councils here get broad powers, I think it's good, they participate in establishing educational institutions, they can be co-founders, or they can be given a founding right by local self-government, autonomous provinces and the government of the Republic of Serbia, or states over educational institutions, to participate in the creation, creation and application of teaching plans, as well as textbooks and teaching tools, which is important for a particular national community. What I would especially sum up here is a way to solve a problem that has appeared where teaching takes place in the native language of the national community, and where we do not have a certain number of students attending that class, where the number is less than 15 and where the opening of the department is problematic. With this we have met in the past and this legislative solution will give the Secretary-General a national advice on the need to set up such a department and will practically be the one to suggest where it is necessary to do so, if it is the number of students who attend this course less than 15, and it is important for the preservation of language and the ability to use language in that environment. The next chapter is a chapter of culture, as significant as all of this, where the National Council brings a culture strategy to a national community, participates in the establishment and work of institutions that care about the culture of national communities, and also determines which institutions and manifestations are important for certain national communities. As for the competence of the notification, a very important segment, where national councils have the rights and opportunities to set up institutions and companies to carry out news and radio-television activities important for the national community, and to give their opinion in determining the management structures of the Serbian Broadcasting Institute and the Vojvodine Radiodifuge Institute. They also think and bring a strategy to develop intelligence for the national community. The fifth area covered by national councils is the official use of language and letters. Another thing that is important, which is a matter of choosing national councils, and it may at this point, in addition to these powers, and one sensitive and important issue that is important to how it will be regulated in order to achieve the basic principles of the elections themselves. These are the general principles of the election, which speak of freedom of choice, equality of electoral law, the secrecy of elections and the periodicity of elections. We also have to take care of volunteering. These are basically three principles that we have to satisfy, which we have to think about. It's volunteering, proportionality and democracy. Here we come to the most sensitive part that has been the subject of numerous discussions both in public debate and on committees today, and these are special ballots. To achieve the right, we have to define the way we're going to do it. In this case, the state has set legal limits and legal frameworks and has stopped there. In my opinion, that's good. I think it would be bad if the state had made special voter lists, and if there was no proper record, because the principle of declaration is the principle of volunteering for every man. If adequate lists are not available to the State, where people have volunteered to be members of one or another national community, then it would be bad, because there is no criterion on which this state would determine and that would be one of the country's will to regulate a relationship, and I think that this is a bad solution. In this case, we're starting with the so-called. Zero voter lists, where we go from zero and leave freedom to the national community to apply on that voter's list, to freely express their will to a particular national community, and I believe that freedom of expression of membership to the national community is democracy and that is the best way to make democracy and through this way of making lists and verifying. What is certainly difficult is to start from scratch, to have to explain to all citizens, to all members of the national communities how the electoral process is conducted, what the national council means, what are the advantages and what they get if they participate in the electoral process, if they want to decide. This promotional positive campaign should include all interested actors, this state should send them a signal that they are safe and that they will not suffer any consequences if they are declared to be members of a national community, but also that they will not suffer any consequences and not be declared. This is their right and this right should be respected, and out of our skills, our security and our skills to point out to them the importance they receive and the ability to settle issues that are important to them will be the percentage of people who will plead and participate in this election process. What is good as a solution, since we have certain painful experiences from the past, where it is normal that there is a certain fear of people from a statement, to freely state whether they are members of a national minority or of another social group, we have had the opportunity to see here debates and in the Assembly when we discussed some other laws that we are still a society that draws some painful experiences from the past and a certain fear that exists, if this does not happen, means that if members do not declare themselves in their written statement, certified in the competent parent office or place where it will be determined, there is the possibility that elections for the national council should be made in an electrical way. I think it also needs to be explained to people how this procedure will look, that they will have their signatures, which will have to be certified in court or municipal administration, or local office, in the amendment that we have proposed to improve the availability of that right to all voters, to support some member of the national community to represent them as an electorate in the election for members of the National Council. I also believe, with colleagues here in the parliamentary group, that representatives of NGOs and associations participating in the electoral process would have to get the same legitimacy of members of that national community, that they really act in spirit and for the benefit of the national community, and that it would be, as well as for the electorate running individually, certified by 100 signatures, because that way they get the legitimacy that they are also representing that interest that is important to that national community, and that it is not only a sign or a statute of law, but it is not certain that they are doing so. With the maintenance of the electoral assembly, we would round up the process and we would have chosen a national council to take care of all issues that are important to the national community. What is important is to say that the elections for all national councils will take place one day, that members of all national communities will one day vote for their representatives and that the periodicality of the cycle will be rounded up. The duration of the mandate of national councils is four years from now and they will have to account for what we have done and to verify the legitimacy of what they have done for their national community, whether they have done well or not. Funding is important because I think it is well resolved within this legal solution, that it is consistent with the other ministries that participated in the adoption of this law. The funding will take place through the budget of the Republic of Serbia, the AP budget and local self-government, and the resources to be allocated will be divided into a certain percentage for the national councils of all national communities. It is 30% of the resources that all national councils will receive, regardless of the number, and 70% of the funds will go towards the number of members of the national communities and the number of institutions they care about. I think that's okay. By passing this law, I am convinced that we will send two very important messages – one message to our citizens, and another message to the citizens of the world, primarily to the citizens of the EU, which we are seeking, hopefully, all of us. First, we are a civilized and democratic society that has the capacity to take care of all its citizens. And secondly, to be prepared for this solution and to take one step forward and to show other countries that we are better able to solve important and sensitive issues. To be an example to others, especially to countries in our environment, and thus to ask these countries to address the issues of members of national minorities, communities in their own countries, according to our prescription and reciprocity. That is why, with all my heart, as an MP of the DS and a member of the ZES Group, I will vote in favour of this law. I also invite all of you to get as much support as possible to make a real step forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-21-0.u24702	Thank you, Mr. Martynski. Now we start a break that ends at 15.05.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-21-0.u24703	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session in the afternoon debate, and by order of the MPs, according to the application for a word in the principled review of the draft law on national councils of national minorities. The word has a national MP, Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-21-0.u24704	Dear Ministers, honourable fellow MPs, we all know that this bill has been working for a very long time, i.e. we know that it was necessary to pass a law that would regulate the jurisdiction of national councils of national minorities, as well as the way they were elected. Of course, I can't put it on my soul that this law has waited so long to be passed, but I can certainly put it on his soul that he put such a bad bill in the congregation procedure. This law is bad for a few reasons, first of all, that some of the solutions proposed in the law are against the constitution. Secondly, some of the solutions that are also proposed in the law deviate many of the existing laws, i.e. existing laws, and what these laws regulate. Third, even whole chapters will not be able to be implemented in practice as well as in a valid manner. Therefore, and the solutions provided for in these chapters, in particular I think about direct elections for national councils, will not be able to be implemented properly. What is quite unpleasant is my thought or finding, that this bill rather reminds me of the compensation of someone, for not bringing or putting into the assembly procedure, according to the DSS, in any case the counter-constitutional statute of Vojvodina. So it's a good thing you didn't dare send such a statute to the Serbian Parliament. However, it is not good that it is now blocking the adoption of a constitutional solution to the Vojvodina statute. I'll give you a few examples of the objections I've made. However, the minister, or official, has heard a lot from the MPs, though, mostly from the opposition, but this is no reason for him to consider the proposed solutions and perhaps change his mind and adopt some of the amendments, which there are many. The elections themselves are intended to be direct and indirect, either directly or through the electoral congregations. The choice of the national minority council will therefore be defined by the national minority itself. So here we have mixed two ways of choosing, so if the national council represents, among other things, a form of functional decentralisation, then it's not good to mix two models. This would be the same if you would leave at will every city or municipality to decide whether local elections, elections for the local assembly, will take place proportionately, or proportionately, or will apply the majority principle. Then you'd have paint on local self-government. This isn't a mixed model of choice, this is everyone's own. So it's not good to have two models. They will see the minister in the amendments, so we have had to write a lot of amendments, that the Democratic Party of Serbia proposes that elections take place as they are under the current regulation, through electoral assemblies. Today, there has been a lot of talk about problems that arise from creating or proposing to create a special polling list. It is contrary to the Constitution and to Article 47. It is constitutional freedom, an expression of nationality, which is explicitly predicted that no one is obliged to declare his nationality. It is said that no one is obliged, but if a member of the national minority wants to participate in the selection of his national council, then he is obliged to declare his nationality and be on the special list. When it comes to special voter lists, we have experience here, that is, when elections are held mostly, the election committees get special voter lists relating to soldiers, citizens of Serbia who are at the time of the election at the service of the military deadline, so the election board gets a review that citizens cannot vote in their polling post in their city, but will vote in the polling post. Therefore, the very concept of a special polling list is not unknown, however, this way is not good and violates the rights of every citizen that he is not obliged to declare his nationality. When it comes to the Roma national minority, according to the last census, which was long ago, and in which year will be the new census, about 108,000 members of the Roma national minority live in Serbia. When you talk to the Croats of the Roma national minority or people dealing with the problems of the Roma national minority, they tell you that the number is not true, that there are many more people in Serbia who are members of the Roma national minority, and then these figures are very different. Some say there's 200,000, some say there's 400,000. Then you wonder what it is, and it's actually a microcry. What's that? A member of the Roma national minority in the census has not declared himself a member of the Roma national minority, but has declared himself a member of the Bosniak, Serb, etc. The Roma truly believe that many more Roma live in Serbia. Why is that, I can't say. My colleague Đura Muchenski talked about it. Some national minorities may have some fear, but for some reason Roma do not want to be declared members of the Roma national minority. How will they experience enrollment in some special polling list? Even when it comes to holding these direct elections for national councils, it is envisaged that they are organised at the same time for all national councils and the question is whether the ministry responsible for carrying out these direct and direct elections has at all human and material opportunities, because the procedure is quite complicated and are given rather short deadlines. I will list several examples in the proposal for this law that are contrary to some applicable system laws. Namely, the National Council can set up an institution or a company, and later on, in order to carry out radio-television activities, or the founders of these radio-television institutions, i.e. institutions dealing with this business, and of course in the languages of national minorities, can transfer management rights to national councils. This solution deviates from existing laws in this area. First of all, we all know that funds from the budget aren't allowed to be financed by radio stations, so at least it's within the law. However, when it comes to national minorities, the Law on Local Self-Government, lastly, excludes local TV and radio stations from the privatisation process. I was also an MP in that term, and I know that we have quite advocating that local TV and radio stations cannot be privatised, because it would endanger reporting, i.e. information and everything else in the language of the national minority where this local radio station works. That's where we fought so the local media couldn't go to privatisation, and that's a great solution. But here it stands, so now it's proposed to practically privatise one body or body, such as the national council of the national minority. You could have a privatisation that would have been made by some other organization or person, and here you have privatisation by the National Council, which you will admit to being just one representative body. Why do I think it should remain the local self-government's governing right? Because in local self-government, you have representatives in the congregations, among other things, and members of national minorities in all parties. I'm going to set an example of Dimitrovgrad, because I know what the situation is. Among other things, the 29-member SO is mostly members of the Bulgarian national minority, but they are from all parties. For example, the Democratic Party of Serbia has four council members in the Assembly of the Municipality and all four of them are Bulgarians. I think that every local self-government, or congregation of the municipality still has a wider leprosy than some national elite of the National Council. I think it should stay that way. I have a little more time, so I'm going to mention a few things about jurisdiction in the field of official use of language and letters. My colleague Zeljko Tomic talked about it. According to Article 79 of the Constitution, minority members are entitled to the environments where they make up a significant population that traditional names of settlements, streets and signposts are written in their language. There is no mention of the right for national councils to establish traditional names. My colleague Tomic talked a little bit more about it. So if something is traditional, it's traditional. We can't agree now that some name is going to be traditional and how do we deal with it then that's the way it is. The traditional name is something that lives and exists in a particular environment and it is already established. So we can only realize that it is a traditional term. As far as this is concerned, in the transitional provisions there is a Article 134 which reads - if the national council does not determine the traditional names of Article 21 of this law within three months of the date of entry into force of this law, then the traditional names will be determined by the Government, in co-operation with local self-government and in co-operation with the National Council. So it goes on, and that this member does not refer to those national councils that have already set out a list of traditional names. What's the situation, I really don't know, and how this is going to work out in practice. Some national councils may have arrived by now to establish a list of these traditional names, but I think there's going to be a disturbance. What if some national council didn't formally do it? The national councils have been there for several years, most of them are out of mandate, what if they didn't? Now national advice will be surprised that within three months of the entry into force of this law, they will have to establish that formal list of traditional names.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-21-0.u24705	The word is from the People's MP Esad Djudjevic. Time available to the minority parliamentary group for three minutes and 30 seconds. After him, MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-21-0.u24706	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, honourable Vice-Presidents, Honored Ministers Ciplic, Mrs Muškonja-Hinrich, we have been waiting for the law on national councils for eight years. On 26 February 2002, a Law on the Protection of the Rights and Freedom of National Minorities was adopted in the federal parliament, in which the final provisions of the legislator committed itself to passing within six months the law we are talking about today. I must begin to point out that the merits of today's discussion of the national council law can be borne by representatives of all 16 of the so-called national councils, but also by you yourself, Mr. Chiplic. Another phenomenon is related to the adoption of such a law, which is the fact that almost equal representatives of minority nations, experts and the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights, headed by Minister Chiplic. I must also point out that almost all the proposals submitted by the Bosniak National Council have been accepted by the working group and the ministry itself. With this law, minority nations will become, through their national councils, what we of the Bosniak List have long advocated, true partners of the state in areas of national identity and I would say - issues of minority equality with the majority people. I also have to point out one fact that is the result of a series, I would say, historical and other circumstances, and which, unfortunately, will make this law even more visible, which is the fact that minorities living in Vojvodina and minorities living in central Serbia are actually in balance. This inequality is not only the result of historical circumstances, it has been and is now often subject to serious manipulations and serious violations of the human and minority rights of minorities in central Serbia, especially in Sandzak, eastern and southern Serbia. The Law on Culture, the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System, as well as the Law on textbooks, which are also the subject of debate in this high home these days, are also essential to the protection and promotion of minority rights in our country. However, as regards the level of achievement of minority rights, in particular in the case of Sandzah Bosniaks and previous versions of the law, the relevant ministries, such as the obligation of the state, made possible, for example, for all minority education in the language of the national minority within the public education system, which is explicitly referred to by Article 13 of the existing Law on the Protection of the Rights and Freedom of National Minorities. It says: “The state is obliged to create conditions for organising education in the language of the national minority, and until that time to provide bilingual teaching or learning of minority languages with elements of national culture and history for members of the national minority.” Unfortunately, eight years since the adoption of the said state law has not only failed to fulfil this legal obligation, but the Resoring Ministry of Education has openly prevented the application of this right in the case of Sandzak Bosniaks. Also, Article 17. The Law on the Protection of Freedoms and the Rights of National Minorities states that the state has committed "to provide information, cultural and educational content in the language of the national minority in the Radio-Television Programmes of the Public Service... “
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-21-0.u24707	People's MP, the time at your representative's disposal has been used. The People's Messenger Tomislav Nikolic has the word, followed by MP Petar Kuntic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-21-0.u24708	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Serbia has indeed gone far in achieving the rights of national minorities. For many years she has gone beyond the Framework Convention on Minority Rights, and these laws complete some constitutional obligations, broader frameworks, I think, which the Constitution has set for this matter. Because if the legislator points to Article 75. As a constitutional basis for the adoption of this law, I could not find that this member referred to participation in the governance of the institutions only because you are a member of the minority, i.e. taking over institutions through the transfer of founding rights of institutions established by the state. There would be and will be a very broad debate in the Constitutional Court: do you have the right to transfer the founding rights to the council of national minorities? I think the reason for the adoption of these laws and the uninterrupted story in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe about some threat to the rights of national minorities, especially Hungarians in Vojvodina, is because there is always a Hungarian who will be referred to how the Hungarians are brutally beaten by the state police, how their rights are threatened, and the reporters who come to the field cannot find evidence that this is really happening there. I even had the opportunity to ask for evidence for hundreds and hundreds of defeated members of the Hungarian national minority, since I claimed there that as a member of the opposition, who is fully informed of the state of the country, I could not blame the Government of the Republic of Serbia, but that I would certainly put myself in the protection of the minority that is threatened in this way and that if I possessed valid evidence. The speaker who spoke before me points to me that something really serious is happening through Serbia, as soon as he dares to compare the rights of members or the state of the rights of members of national minorities in Vojvodina and Sandzak. I would really not share Serbia, nor would I share the rights of national minorities in the territories, and even say that rights are at stake and that an unfair relationship in the exercise of minority rights in Sandzak and minority rights in Vojvodina. So now, like, Vojvodina is autonomy, so it's better to solve it, and maybe Sandzak and the Raška area should get some autonomy, so that the government that already exists there would be a much better solution within the Raška area than has been solved so far. The question arises, if we have positive discrimination in the Law on the Selection of People's MPs and in the Law on the Selection of Councilors, what do we now get from the advice of national minorities? If there is now a positive discrimination against minority members in relation to peoples, let's end the positive one in the election law. If you say that minorities are now finally represented through the council of national minorities, then political parties no longer represent them or have a dualism in the exercise of the rights of national minorities. National minorities will exercise special rights through the political parties of national minorities and through the advice of national minorities to exercise special rights. There's something wrong with that. Aren't you exaggerating? I'd understand if there were really true empirical evidence that members of the national minorities here were just as such and therefore only threatened in any way. But that's not in Serbia. It's a nice list of wishes, but you've really raised national minorities' advice to the government of the national minority. Now every national minority has its own government within its minority, which even takes over some of the powers that have so far been in local self-government, in the Republic. I'll try to prove it to you. If you say that the national minority in the field of education, culture, notification, in the first position of Article 2, you prescribe the Constitution, and in the second you add a bit of business society, and other organisations, and why does the Serbs not represent the national council of Serbs? Why are we directed to be represented exclusively by political parties, both in parliaments of local self-government and AP, and in the National Assembly? Why don't we have the right to ask ourselves somewhere through the National Council of Serbs? Maybe I'd like the name of a street to depend on, too, just because I'm a Serb? If it can depend on the national council of Bosniaks, here you have given them the right to define the traditional street name and to apply it. I didn't see that this is a lex specialis that will now completely suspend the application of any other laws in matter they regulate. You know how street names are brought, cities: local self-government, the consent of the competent ministry. You now say here, the National Council of Minorities determines the traditional name of the street that has to be applied. How's that gonna defend itself in our legal system? You say that in institutions where educational and educational work is done in the language of the national minority, the council proposes members of the board of directors and gives prior consent to the selection of directors. So, both governing bodies, both the in-coherent and the board of directors, depend on the advice of the national minority. In one without his opinion, the director cannot be elected, and the other directly appoints members of the board of directors. "It proposes to approve the authorisation for the use of textbooks and teaching tools whose content expresses the specificities of the national minority, and the minister responsible for the education tasks gives approval for use on a proposal from the National Council." So no more textbooks will be able to be used without that national council. Is that our obligation? Do we now acknowledge that our country is unable to assess for itself how it should develop, cultivate and positively discriminate against the rights of its minorities? Was that a problem so far, Mr. Minister? Has the Minister of Education so far not been able to assess what textbooks should be used in these institutions? What problems can we have now that he cannot do so without a proposal from the national minorities? And as for Article 14, not only in the field of education, but also in Article 17 of the other jurisdiction, for example in the field of culture, this cannot take over the advice of national minorities, this is multidisciplinaryly professional, this is for one Serbian government. How many employees, how many experts are going to hire a national minority council to fill this all out? These are all obligations without which the state can't move forward in fulfilling someone, not even the rights of national minorities, not to mention that it's the achievement of her duties. But it is really dangerous when you say in Article 15(3) that the Republic, an autonomous province, local self-government, can in general or partially transfer founding rights, for example to cultural institutions, to national councils. That's not good. That's not good for members of national minorities either. It's an absolute ghettoization. If you are satisfied, and if you colleagues of Kovac laugh at this discussion of mine, I don't know what you really want in Serbia. You're laughing ridiculously. I know when you guys laugh funny. I've seen you like this in Strasbourg. So, the state exists and as long as there's a country like this, you'll have all the rights, but please don't stand out, we want to live with you. We want to live a mixed life. I don't want to feel like I'm in danger and damaged as a Serb, that my rights are not protected. Why don't I choose my textbook? So I say, I'm sorry, we chose a Serb to assess which textbook in Serbian it would be. And you're right. To me, the school director will draw a textbook from which my grandchildren will learn, and you will decide from which textbook you will learn. Who's being discriminated against? Discrimination is a word that marks an unfavorable position. There's no positive discrimination. If Pera and Mika are in one relationship, so Mika is positively discriminated against, then Pera is negatively discriminated against. That's how it works. If you give someone more, and you say I have to develop you specifically, you've stopped this somewhere. As if I couldn't think of some culture that cherishes the values and traditions of the Serb people? No, it has to go to the government, where everyone sits. When we talk about minority rights, we say – only you minority members will decide. Why? What are you looking for yourself? Let's all decide that. Or maybe one day, in villages where the majority of minority members are going to go to a red light at a traffic light because it was decided by the advice of the national minorities. If we rebel, you will say, "Do not let us live as we will." So, I wish we had corrected some of the wrongs by some of the laws. I wish I had heard from the debates that wrongs in Serbia need to be corrected by this law, I will raise my hand to have that law passed. But this is a whim, I'm not saying "experience," this is some kind of rage. Mr. Minister, you should have come to defend human rights in a law explained by the Minister of Culture, to see if you would then be silent before the fact that a man has no right to his own opinion, just because his opinion, his court doesn't like the minister. You are saying that the National Council can submit proposals, initiatives and opinions to the National Assembly, the Government and other state bodies and specific organisations on issues of its competence. In accordance with what constitutional provision? The constitution is clear – 30,000 citizens. The Rules of Procedure say: 15,000, and I don't know if that discrepancy between the Rules of Procedure and the Constitution has been corrected. How can the National Council take it to the National Assembly, because when you say it in law, we have to discuss it? You wouldn't say – he can handle it, but the Assembly is not obliged to think about it. Every citizen can do that. He writes a proposal or initiative, and the Secretary of Parliament says - it is not in line with the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure. What will you say about the initiative of the Council of National Minorities, will it be rejected because it does not comply with the Constitution and with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which should be in accordance with the Constitution? What is this provision for a right that cannot be achieved? Perhaps then in Strasbourg, since our Constitution has not regulated the matter that the law has better regulated – we will have to change the Constitution for this? It is truly unacceptable for me that the national council determines the traditional names of units of local self-government, populated places and that the names established by the national council become names in official use, besides the name in Serbian. What law is that? How many laws must now be amended because of this legal provision? It is in collegiate with a process that determines the names of the settlements, other geographical names, in absolute collegiation that will be applied by law. When a request of the National Council appears, what will local self-government, AP or state do to recognise this law or the one under which there is a procedure? The National Council proposes to change the name of the street – so every citizen can. These are now some rights, as great rights, you can suggest the name of the street, so any citizen can suggest it. Is this the matter being considered, which is being considered, which is being decided? This international and regional co-operation – in accordance with the law, the National Council co-operates with international and regional organisations. With what law? Where is this after being worked out, by any provision of any law – the co-operation of the National Council and you already know what you have already listed in Article 26? Now there's the Minister of Local Self-Government. You say that within 90 days you will conclude the first special polling list for national minority councils, and we have been waiting for a unique list of voters in Serbia for ten years. You are now obliging yourself to finish a job you do not want to finish in Serbia in 90 days. If you were so expedient to all Serbian citizens, everything would be fine. Now, of course, you predicted in the beginning that for everything that is not regulated, laws on the selection of MPs, MPs are applied, but why is this composition of the Central Election Commission, a permanent composition of three members appointed by the minister, and then the extended composition of those who participate in the elections? Why does the minister appoint members of the CEC? Furthermore, the electoral commission for the polling area -- and both commissions do not know what they will do when the elections are over and the election results are announced. Who has the right to object? Who solves by object? Where's the dispute? That's where this law can't be applied properly, because it's RIK, and here you have the CEC. So someone in this law had to determine whether the CEC was referring to an objection. What does one who is dissatisfied with the published results do? The law does not provide for his right, to decide somewhere in the second degree – whether the elections were regular or not. Not to mention the budget, you're going to tell me now that I'm sorry for the funds that will go to national minorities. I'm not sorry, you just re-separated Vojvodina with some rights that should be at the level of the territory of the Republic of Serbia. The entry into force of this law makes a general choice, i.e. re-election of all national councils. If, on the day of the national council elections, the National Council has not completed half of its mandate, its mandate shall be renewed and its mandate shall be as long as the mandates of the national councils to be elected. You'll have to explain that to me. What difference does it make how long the term of office was when the law under which the election was re-emerged? Imagine you've said all the laws you've passed so far to choose people again? Imagine the law on the election of the President of the Republic, so that you said - since Mr Tadic has not crossed half the mandate, he remains in office as President of the Republic does not have to go to the elections. This was tried once by Slobodan Milosevic when he resigned as president of the Republic a while ago, so someone gave an interpretation that he had not expired half of his term, so the mandate does not count. Of course, the lawyers were still allowed to say what they were thinking and when they said what they were thinking, the interpretation gave up. Today you no longer have a free opinion among the lawyers, because, as in medicine, all people fear for their piece of bread. The judges fear whether they will be re-elected, prosecutors, whether they will be re-elected. Doctors fear losing their jobs because they're being taken after by the company G17 plus or someone else. People's MPs here fear that some minister is not yelling at them and not insulting them just because he's arrogant and ossion, and this country is based on the fear that the government is carrying out against its citizens and on the rights that the state promises to members of the national minorities. You know very well, in the next election, not small political parties will be a tab on the scale, but a party of national minorities. It will be up to you, ladies and gentlemen, who represent the national minorities here, to depend on what the future government in Serbia will look like. This is your investment now. It's like when you put together the last government, a list of good wishes and promises, and then you'll complain in public that they didn't meet you, that you're very unhappy, but from the bench that you won't move, because the way to get to those benches is very easy, easier than you do for me and you know it very well. With a small number of votes you come into a position to accomplish and what you shouldn't look for and think about it very well. The Serbian Progressive Party will co-operate with the parties of national minorities. For you, there is an open door in every government we form, but we will not sign or promise what we cannot do to you, to you or to other parties, especially from Vojvodina, which are now using these agreements as blackmailing capacity. We will give you a hand in which there is no knife, no hidden paper, completely clean and clear, you will - you will, you will not - you will not. We will help you whenever you are threatened, and you will help us to finally place this Serbia in order whose citizens are proud to live in Serbia. You can vote for this law, but you know very well, what your yellows put on paper, they'll never do it in practice.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-21-0.u24709	Before I give my word to the next speaker, I am informing the National Assembly, on the basis of Article 85 paragraph 5, that we will be working today after 1800 hours, and in the debate on the agenda that is at that moment our topic. The word has the People's MP Esad Djudjevic, right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-21-0.u24710	I just need to comment on what my colleague Nikolic said to correct it. I was talking about, in fact, trying to talk about minorities in central Serbia. You didn't listen very carefully. Among other things, I mentioned Sandzak, eastern and southern Serbia. Comrade Nikolic, the region from which I come in my language tradition is called Sandzak, as you will call it in your language tradition is your question.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-21-0.u24711	The word has the People's MP Tomislav Nikolic, right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-21-0.u24712	I didn't want to deny you in any way the right to call this territory Sandzak, I just said what I call it and how it should be called historically, and you have the right to call it Sandzak, and you'll never be banned from it, but you really singled out Sandzak. Look at the stenogram, the Duke and Sandzak you've singled out. So, I think I've made myself perfectly clear. In Vojvodina, members of national minorities are in power. In Sandzak, to use your term, members of the national minorities are in power. It seems that these are more capable there in Vojvodina than you are in Sandzak, but if you think it can be better achieved through some Sandzak autonomy compared to Serbia, you know how long it is and it is simply not possible to create a new autonomy, at least by this constitution right now. You will never have 50% of the citizens enrolled for such a decision.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-21-0.u24713	The People's Messenger Petar Kuntic has the word, and after him is the Messenger of the people, Sulejman Spaho.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-21-0.u24714	Dear Mr. Minister, the President-in-Office, honourable MPs, we have one of the most important laws for us members of the national and minority communities. By law on the protection of the rights and freedoms of national minorities from 2002, by forming national councils, i.e. National councils have revived a new period in the lives of national and minority communities in Serbia's territory. There, starting in 2002, certain problems began. Namely, the old minorities, those who had status during the former common state, in this new environment strengthened their national-minority institutions related to those four areas, and we members of the new minorities, who became the fallout of the common state or based on this 2002 law, had problems raising from scratch the institutions of the national and minority communities. It was mostly difficult in the field of education. We just had a situation that the National Council, i.e. the National Council, could not solve. So let's say that we have a mother tongue class, and we don't have textbooks, then classes are done without textbooks, and then the following year when you enroll, the same parents ask you what kind of teaching is done without textbooks. There is a certain turbulence within the minority community itself, so we had in almost all the national councils, in most of the national councils of certain turbulences that finally ended with today having 15 national councils formed, now stable, and 16 is the advice of the Jewish municipalities in Serbia. At that time we were expecting and we could hardly wait there in 2006, since the Hungarian community was the first to form its national council and then everyone remained later, and there about 2006-2007 we expected finally these elections, when we thought that new people in the national communities would bring some quality and these new people would be able to correct and solve all those problems that arise in four areas, in the area of and cultural autonomy of minority communities. However, in 2006, in 2007, there was no new law on election of national councils, so to speak, for a year, this ministry managed to deal with the problem and we have one of the most important laws for the national minority communities in Serbia ahead of us. The law is good. Someone here said very well earlier, finely integrates the national minority communities into the socio-political and economic life of the Republic of Serbia and stops assimilation. So, all of this about direct elections, about the very electoral law for new national-mining councils, whether it's a direct and electoral way, I think it's clear that we've heard here several times already, and that the most important thing is that both depends on the organisation and strength of the national-minor community itself. In any case, the electoral way is novelty, and it is the key and the contents of everything, that these elections are no different from any choice when parliamentary or provincial or municipal are discussed, or at the level of municipalities. It means that these signatures will be controlled by the authority in the institutions whether the court or the institutions of the municipality. It is also very important that the way and internal control of the material and financial operations of the national councils themselves and the financing of national councils are resolved and will no longer depend on whether there is money or no money and exactly how the national councils themselves will be financed. Also, so that some national councils may not go too far beyond what is called cultural autonomy, the human and minority rights ministries have the right to act, statutes, etc. They also question what they think is not in line, that they ask the Constitutional Court. In the end, I'd like to support this law going by emergency procedure, we've waited really long for it, it's very important for the national-minor communities. The ZES coalition will certainly unanimously support this law, I hope other parliamentary groups in the Assembly, as this decision is based on a consensus of all the national councils that are now existing in the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-21-0.u24715	The People's Messenger Sulejman Spaho has the word, and after him is the Messenger Vesna Pesic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-21-0.u24716	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, almost all the laws the government has sent to this House have been unarranged. Also, this law on national councils has its failures and is unspeakable. The national council and the national minority in the administrative order of the state were introduced in 2002 by the Law on the Protection of Freedom and the Rights of National Minorities. Despite the ruling coalition's stories about how the rights of national minorities must go one step further, how they must legally circle the areas, we have waited for years for this law. Not only were the members of the national minorities waiting for him, but also the citizens of Serbia who were interested in the law. The Law on National Councils of National Minorities today lies before us Members, seven years after the adoption of the law mentioned and three years after the adoption of the Constitution. To remind myself, the Constitution contains provisions that allow members of national minorities to participate directly or indirectly through their representatives or decide on certain issues related to the exercise of rights in the fields of culture, education, use of languages and letters. The constitution also allows national minorities to choose their national councils. The question is, why have we waited so long for this law? But that question, after we saw the final version of the bill, this law falls into the water. At this point, it's more important that you answer our question -- why, after so many years, after so many stories, have we got a bill that contains so many faults? We've received a bill of law that's in certain parts and inconclusive, as well as vague. Mr. Minister, after so many years, after so many debates, stories, polemics, the law must be perfectly clear. The SRS will try to correct some of its provisions with its proposed amendments, however, with some provisions it is simply impossible. At first glance, the law is well packed, inhaled, but many problems arise after this perfect appearance. First of all, its preparation in practice, possibilities, or inability to implement certain provisions in practice and consequences which will produce provisions in this law on national councils. The SRS finds this law necessary. It is necessary because it regulates a very important area, an area of national minority rights. The SRS also pointed out for years the need to pass such a law. However, the draft law in the form in which it was found before the MPs, i.e. before us, it is unacceptable for us and for him, Mr. Minister, we will not vote. The law stipulates that national minorities themselves decide to elect members of national councils. The elections for national councils can either be directly or through the electoral assembly, however, it is unclear how a commitment will be made. The law states: "National minorities will identify themselves which of these two ways will be given priority", in fact, in which way we, for example, will give priority to the members of the Muslim religion. Will all interested parties be able to participate in making such an important decision or will the chosen group decide on my behalf and on behalf of all of us who belong to non-national parties. I believe that this issue and this dilemma are not only plagued by Muslims, but also by Roma, Slovaks, Romanians and Russians. On the other hand, if a decision is made to go to direct elections and a sufficient number of voters are not entered on the special voter list, elections for the national council will be held through the electoral assembly. I'm convinced, ladies and gentlemen, that most of them are interested in having direct elections. The electoral electoral election system for the election of members of the National Council has proved to be very flawed. Direct elections are a much better and more constructive way to elect representatives of the national council. I'm also convinced there's going to be a big problem with making, Mr. Minister, a special polling list. I'm afraid that election list doesn't serve you the same as in the coffee, sugar campaign and everything else. The way in which a special polling list was formed has caused, you know, controversy and debate, especially in the Committee on National Minorities. The fact that you've prescribed that voters have to apply themselves for enrolment may be a kind of discrimination. On the other hand, you're saying that you're going to organise a campaign to enlist the voter list, but I don't think that this campaign is going to give the desired results, and believe me, we all know that it's going to cost the country a lot. Let's take it, Mr. Minister, an example of Muslims. They are scattered all over Serbia. They're not concentrated in one place. Some live in cities, some in remote villages, where there's no electricity, hence television, not to mention newspapers. If they happen to hear about a special polling list, it will be very complicated for them, and it will be a major harassment to be included in a special polling list. Many may not even want to enroll in this special voter list, fear their abuses. This is precisely why the SRS has proposed amendments to more penalties than those proposed by the Proposer if data abuses with special polling lists occur. However, there is fear in humans, and they need to be understood. We also suggested that, besides the political organisation of national minorities, other political organisations could apply for these national councils. This prevents discrimination against members of national minorities, we provide an opportunity for all to participate in the elections, regardless of political membership. Why would I, Sulajman Spaho, a Muslim, an SRS MP or any other colleague of mine, be in a subordinate position to fellow party members, who are defined as political organisations of national minorities? Everyone knows the program of Spaha Suleiman and the SRS, so we leave it to the people to decide who will represent him on the national council, not in the beginning to eliminate someone. This is just some of the grudges, and my colleagues will talk about other aspects of this law. In the end, let me repeat once again the position of the SRS. The law of national minority councils is necessary in order to comply with the Constitution, this very important area for our society and our country, much more precisely. However, such a bill, which in some parts is unspeakable, is unacceptable to us. It's not us against the law, it's us against this kind of law. Just as I, as a Muslim and the SRS, am pleased that the ruling coalition has taken some of our views, as a Muslim, I must conclude that the encouraging step is that the state has defined itself in foreign policy to co-operate with non-classified countries and a large majority in the Organisation of the Islamic Conference. Also, it is good that the president of the Palestinian self-government Mahmud Abas was in Belgrade, and as honest as these steps are, we will see in the future. If we consider your behavior all these years, we must be skeptical. I know which national corps I belong to. I belong to Serbian because I declare myself a Serb Islamic confession. I also know that I belong to the Serb Islamic community, which is based in Belgrade. I belong and I am proud to belong to the SRS, and most importantly, my president is a Serb, not a Serb, but a Serbian hero, Dr Vojislav Seselj, and while Serbia has such Serbian heroes, there will be so many. Right, Mr. Nikolic?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-21-0.u24717	The word has a folk MP Vesna Pesic, the time available to the LDP parliamentary group is four minutes and 20 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-21-0.u24718	It has already been said that LDP will vote for this law. I wanted to make a few comments. First, my impression when it comes to this law as if, Mr. Minister, there is some excess regulation in this law. You've worked so hard, it seems to me that it's been done for one single minority, and by that model of that minority, it's all regulated. I'll tell you what I mean right now. Let's say, in the election for national councils, whether directly or through the electrician, very large documentation is required, and we know that there are some minorities that are very difficult to make that documentation, say, Roma. Maybe the Roma would like it not to be so jumpy, as you've regoverned here. They may not be able to answer, because from real life we know that very often they don't even have ID cards, they don't have documentation. And then even when it comes to the census, where you determine how many people will have advice, we know that some minorities, because they differ very much between themselves, there is a phenomenon of microcry, which does not register as members of that people, but actually don't actually register on the lists at all, or it's very difficult to catch them on the list. And then, for example, I think in article 8, you say so strictly which number is the largest number of 35 members. So, everything according to the regulation exactly, like you're building some boxes, you say -- if it's on the last census of 10,000, then there are 15 members, and if it's between 10 and 20... I mean, that's not exactly the exact thing you've set up here. Secondly, what do you care how many of those members they're going to have? What's so important? I think it's a little bit reregulated, if there's 10,000 of them, so let's have 20 on that tip. Why does it have to be so precise? Why does it have to be all with each other so it fits? It may fit some minorities, maybe some minorities do, but minorities are very different in nature. Some minorities have a far greater tendency to segregate in some way, to hold very strong, firmly their diversity, and perhaps one of these laws fits them. You have some minorities that will measure how much we respect minority rights, how much he has the right to integrate. Let's just say, I'm taking an example of Roma again. You have one minority that's a very weak minority because it doesn't have its own country of origin. You don't know exactly, it has some kind of language, but it's not affirmed enough, like some other languages affirmed. Its measure is precisely how much they will be enrolled in their children’s school, since they are already being liquidated from those schools in the first grade. They don't have teachers, they don't have doctors, they're not at all compatible in a series of professions. They would have a greater measure of their equality by having the opportunity to integrate rather than get their own. When it's reregulated like this and it's too precise, the question is how much of this is appropriate for a minority. It seems to me that you had only one minority in front of your eyes, so you jumped all of it, and that other minorities might have preferred to be more free, more flexible than they were given here, because this precision as a minority can't be realized. So that's one general remark, then it shows one cruelty to this law of yours. I've already listed this Article 8, where the minister, for example, calls, then the minister determines, then you, for example, are in your interventions, as you know, saying, well, we have national minorities, well, they are today... (President: Time, Mrs. Pesic, please finish. )......................................................................................................... Yes, but you have repeatedly pleaded to the people you belong to. You're a civil servant here. It doesn't really matter to me, and that's the thing. So we can look at how many minorities are entitled to exactly how many judges there will be, how many civil servants there will be, and not just how many opportunities it will have to express certain cultural or other needs, how many rights it will have to run, whether it is represented by leading positions. Well, let's just say that one...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-21-0.u24719	Thank you, Mrs. Pesic. Mr. Todorovic is advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-21-0.u24720	On the basis of Article 27, Madam President, I'm looking for information to tell us what was going on in the Assembly. According to some information, a woman with a gun appeared at the entrance from Kosovo. The members of the M.O.P. were coming. According to some information, she was looking for someone who deals with economic crime, that she couldn't solve any of the problems she's got, and we have that kind of information. To remind you that 20 or a month ago, a similar event happened across the street from us in the presidency. It is obvious that the situation in our country is such that a growing number of citizens do not see the way out for themselves or for the problems they face and then resort to the means and ways that they think are the only possible solutions, and you keep quiet about it. I think it would be my turn for the MPs to find out about it from you, to give you an immediate explanation, to inform us, not to tell us in the halls, to meet us journalists, to call us on the phone, which I don't think is correct, and there's no reason to hide from the MPs. Because it's probably going to happen tomorrow, and tonight, all the electronic media is going to report, and we're probably going to end up working here about half past three, when it's time, finding out or not, or tomorrow morning we're going to find out what's going on in the Republic of Serbia's Parliament. Please give us, if you know, a notice right away.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-21-0.u24721	What kind of president would I be if I didn't know? There is no breach of the Rules of Procedure, because the violation of the Rules of Procedure can be done during the session. Of course, until I got the official information, I wasn't able to speak to you or tell you what it was about. The girl wanted to join the Assembly. There really were guns and bullets in her bag in a special box. This was identified all at the entrance to the Assembly and certain authorities from the MUP and from the health services responded because there was a need for both reactions. The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojic-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-21-0.u24722	Madam President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's not easy for me to speak after this news, since I see that fellow MPs have been very interested in it, so I can't compete with that kind of popularity. In the course of the day, I have already said that this is one of those laws that have been long awaited since 2002, when the Law on the Protection of the Rights and Freedom of National Minorities was adopted, when national councils were scheduled to be formed, which should actually be formed to exercise self-government rights in the field of official use of language and letter, education, information and culture of national minorities. In the meantime, it started preparing a law like this. Several drafts have been made, there have been public debates, constant communication with members of national minorities. We have the opinion of the Council of Europe on one such draft, and that is one, I would say, standard procedure for how this law is passed, although the fact that it has long been waiting. I already mentioned that in 2006, the Constitution, that it also brought a wide range of rights and freedoms to national minorities, guaranteed collective minority rights, confirmed the formation of national councils to exercise self-government rights in the field of education and information, culture and official use of languages and letters. To date, 15 national councils have been formed, 16 if we took this alliance of Jewish municipalities, of 28 minorities. During today's debate, one of the MPs said that there was one void, one vacuum in which nothing was done. It is true that there was no Ministry of National Minorities, but it is true that many things were done and only a few things were listed. We see, 16 national councils are formed. This draft law has also been made, which has practically passed the procedure in the Council of Europe. A decision has been taken on the representation of national minorities in state bodies. The Council of the Republic of Serbia has made a series of decisions on importing textbooks, let's say approving national minorities' symbols. What else was done on the subject? Several important things have also been initiated, for example, to teach government officials in the language of national minorities in Vojvodina. So a subject of human and minority rights was introduced at the Police Academy. These are all the liquids that have existed and that have led to this today. Now I'm going to make a few general comments and a grudge for the law the DSS was already talking about, but it's worth mentioning again. In the good part of the bill, it is both unconstitutional and incompatible with existing laws. I was talking about the Broadcasting Law. I should also mention the seal law. The renewal of the law gave Vojvodina jurisdiction to use a multilingual seal, but in other parts of Serbia also live national minorities, they do not have such a possibility and simply do not have the authority of local self-government to deal with it. I think they've been brought here into an unequal position of the national minority. The other kind of grudges relate to the fact that this law is inconclusive. This law makes dualism in the election for national councils and this is used by a hybrid model that has two sides, on the one hand it has direct elections, and on the other hand it has an electoral election. In the case of these direct elections, he foresees a procedure that will take place. In the case of electrics, it also predicts a procedure, but it makes a difference here between the values of one and the other, by saying not explicitly, but this shows that unless it succeeds, let's say, a national minority to apply this direct model, it has the right to use an electrical model, which in this case is an alternative, a less valuable model. On the other hand, this way, this hybrid model makes the difference between "large" and "small" national minorities. The DSS has no such difference between small and large, it believes that all national minorities should have the exact same rights. In fact, we're like a parliamentary group and we've written an amendment that refers to the fact that it's very acceptable to use only one model and we think that the electric model is much better for one and for another variant, to simply remain as the only model. As a reason for this, I will list the interview in "News", from Wednesday 8 July, which was given by Mr Vitomir Mihajlovic, president of the Council of the Roma National Community, who is also our fellow MP, therefore, one double role, which says this – Roma by 2002 list has 108 thousand, and there are realistically at least 7 times more. That's why we wouldn't have a problem fighting to directly elect members of the council, although many of my countrymen are afraid, I'm undersinuating fear, getting into lists, so it's easier for them to do their electricians. So if someone who, we have to admit, is also relevant in politics, then we really need to respect what we said as a parliamentary group and what we have offered as a model in our amendments. Then, the third type of grudge refers to the fact that this law and its application are very expensive. For example, one of my previous speakers said there would be an enlistment campaign. The campaign costs money. The state has an infamous record of shooting down all possible inflations and everything else. It's very hard to live, so I'm not sure how much money it takes to throw it all over the place. Let me not say one more thing, I don't understand why it is now necessary in the second half of 2009 and in 2010 to make such other alternative so-called. voter lists, if you will already have the results of the new list in 2011. I think it's more relevant to use something new than to do one job that's going to cost and be pretty big. What else is contrary to what you have stated as a bill? Direct elections for national councils lead to violations of citizens' rights. I don't think there are any MPs of the opposition who didn't speak this way, because practically by making this list of the new electoral list practically "terate", you say voluntarily, but if they want to be in that process they have to be on that list and you simply force them to declare their nationality. This is contrary to Article 47(2). The constitution of Serbia, which explicitly says no one is obliged to declare his nationality. As a result, the provision offered by this law on this voter list is practically unconstitutional. If there is already one voter list like this, a number of further questions are being raised, which we have tried to resolve with the amendments. Let's say, the relationship between the solutions contained in this law and the laws on the selection of MPs, then the questions regarding enrolment and erasing from the voter's list, then what is the role of the court in this business. It is especially important to say what I already mentioned, why we do all this in the second half of 2009 and the beginning of 2010, if we will have results in 2011, when these results are completely authentic, made at the moment. There are other anti-constitutional provisions. In Article 2(2), the law says this - the national council represents a national minority in the field of education, culture, communication in the language of national minorities and official use of languages and letters, participates in the decision-making process or decides on issues from these areas and the establishment of institutions, companies and other organisations in these areas. Not only do you extend the role of national councils here by giving them the right to set up companies, but you impose a completely unnatural relationship, you bring practically economic societies together with the cultural autonomy of the national minority represented by national councils. That's what I see as a problem. It is simply incompatible, but I see that the representatives of minorities coming from the ruling coalition pointed out that it is very important that you offered them economic growth and economic co-operation. I don't think it has anything to do with this law, because this law deals with other things than economics. Also, whether it is compatible that national councils, which are budget users, are founded by companies and are engaged in economic activity. I am sorry that the time of my parliamentary group is practically running out, and I would very much like to have had the opportunity to talk about broadcasting, because I have collected several newspaper articles in which members of national minorities, and from the position of the journalist profession, talk about how inapplicable this law is.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-21-0.u24723	The word has the People's MP Otto Kishmarton. Zoran Krasic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-21-0.u24724	At first, I would like to send a few messages to the government that can be interpreted, first of all, as a reflection of something that is a political situation, so I would like to ask you if you meet Mr Cvetkovic or Mr Boris Tadic to inform them about this. You see, behind you are Mrs Slavica Djukić-Dejanović and Veljko Odalovic, there is my friend Milan Nikolic, here is Sulejman Spaho, here I am. In 20 years, we haven't changed our position on the rights of national minorities at all. He's completely identical 20 years ago and today. Some others have changed. Twenty years ago they talked about Serbia as a place where minority rights were allegedly violated, and you see in our thinking, in our relation to the Constitution, nothing has changed individually according to the rights. You have probably noticed that almost all political parties on these issues have made it clear that they have in their membership those citizens who are members of some national minority. Our representative on this agenda was Marina Toman, the public knows her primarily as a member of the SRS, and who rarely knows she's a member of some national minority. We're proud of it. We believe that people who participate in political life can have some difference of political nature with some of their political alternatives, but if we are honestly defined for democracy and human rights, then every human being, every citizen of the Republic of Serbia, every citizen of the Republic of Serbia, so why not tell a stranger, should enjoy this right to express maximum equality before the law, equality, absence of any discrimination. That's one standard. Also, please inform Mr Tadic, if you see him, that I am not going too far, but 30 years, if not longer, in all the governments of the Republic of Serbia in the form of a minister, the Deputy Prime Minister has always been present as a member of a national minority, several times primarily as an expert on an area but also as a member of a national minority. A similar situation is with the National Assembly. It was never a problem in the National Assembly to place a position based on the proportion belonging to parliamentary groups of a national minority. Simply, all parties wanted to have good relations with the political representatives of national minorities, because it is one of the good conditions for Serbia's stability and for normal life, because we are neighbours, and friends, and even relatives, etc. There's no problem here. Meanwhile, some have changed, those who have said if they see a flag in a hand, those who have shared free crates for a difficult material position, see for themselves, have changed those who attacked the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. We have suffered great criticism, and those who have called for no vote, not to go to the referendum are now calling for the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia from the part where the declaration of human rights is located. I had to tell you this in order to simply realize that there are some political reasons why this kind and this kind of text of law are being imposed. These are, above all, political reasons, because someone who believes that the political elite of some national minorities wants at all costs to preserve their political exclusion and their places. I can list what's been going on for the past five years on the issue of national councils, media, open threats, etc. I am not entering these political conditions, who, why, has accepted to support Boris Tadic as president of the national minorities or who has agreed to support this government in order to achieve some, however, I must say, partial political rights and interests as elites. I must raise my voice, because in some solutions, this bill simply carries out its kind of isolation and ghettoisation, because it turns out that representatives of national minorities in the SRS, in the DSS and any other party are not authentic representatives of their national minority. They are practically excluded in some provisions. If you see Mr Tadic and Mr Cvetkovic, ask them if they intend to place such a concept of the law in Montenegro, Croatia, Hungary, these countries that are in the EU or in the EU lobby? I know that you want to be leaders in the Balkans, I know that Serbia should be in the first place, it's all known, but what you can't achieve in order to fulfil the constitutional obligation, protecting the rights of Serbs in Montenegro, what you can't do with Milo Djukanovic, the European man, to push through, not here, and especially not in such an unconstitutional way. I would just like to draw your attention now to the harsh violation of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. There are also some solutions that are contrary, and there are solutions that are in dissent that can be identified with the opposite. I would draw your attention to the word "self-government", when it stands within something territorial, when it stands within something local, has very precise meaning, defined by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and the laws. When you look at the term "self-government" in article 75, it's not that kind of independence. This is not about the national council of the national minority as an institution, it's not about something you said in the opening statement - forming, it's about law. This article discusses individual and collective rights, but collective rights are also said to be done either directly or indirectly, but there is no telling who is the representative anywhere. It's an interesting thing how far you've gone, precisely because of this elite that wants to secure its position. You said - this law should be an exception. No, this law should only represent what the constitutional framework is. Let me just distract you. Who authorized you to insert in the bill a provision on the transfer of certain powers which are authentic state powers, resulting from the exercise of state authority? How can you pass it on to something that isn't binding? That's why in this whole bill of law, in every article where you start with words -- jurisdiction has inserted the word -- yes. Is there anything he can do, he can get those powers that are tied to the sea? Just to draw attention, these four issues are set aside within the collective rights corpus, but in Article 80(1) you probably know it, members of national minorities can establish educational and cultural associations that volunteer to finance. Please, as part of the right to territorial autonomy, under the right to local self-government, there are a number of provisions that require that according to the composition of the population, the personality of a given space, autonomy and local self-government, and there are also culture, and education, information, there is the use of the official letter. You see, the official letter and language are almost a subject that you don't have to process at all with this law, because everything is regulated. Regulated by the Republic, regulated by an autonomous province, regulated by all local self-government. Since it's already been regulated, the one who violates it is at odds with the state, not with representatives of the national minority. They're absolutely protected here. No wonder there's such a big seal for certain municipalities in Vojvodina. It needs to be big, and it's an obligation, in all languages, to stand it in writing and nobody slows it down. When it comes to information, take any place where a large number of representatives of a nation's minority live. They already have informational texts in their own language and in their letter. Shall we go about culture? Artistic societies that finance local self-government also cultivate heritage and what is the personality and cultural identity of residents and municipalities. I don't see any controversy here. If anything is further needed, the Constitution has regulated it. You don't want to. You want to satisfy the appetites of those who represent the political elite. Just to remind you, a few months ago, the Law on Political Parties was passed, so there was some small modification of the concept -- the political parties of national minorities compared to what was written in the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, which was changed there, I think, in February 2004. We come to the conclusion that they're doing the same job twice. Once as a political party, because it promotes those personalities and it is not disputed for anyone, and then they move to the national council, where they should also use funds from all levels of the budget, and yet the political elite will not be satisfied. Let Mr Tadic know. They're going to condition him again, as we've had a situation here that almost every month and a half, two months, some arrow goes off, so we're thinking about voting, maybe we don't give a quorum. Why? There's a reason. It's not the reason for members of the national minority, it's the elite. You know for the past few years that the issue of forming national councils, and according to that regulation that was in force at the time, has been the issue of party division, the domination of one or two, or three or more competing political groups within the same national group, in order to ensure not only the presence of the levers of power, but also the domination and acquisition of funds. We don't want to put up with it. Everyone's suffering because of it. There is only one party in Serbia, you know, a party of the poor, that's what affects all of us, the poor, the economic crisis, the lack of property. It's something we should fight against, not to think about how one or the other, within the supposedly political representatives of a particular national minority, will win, or by another criterion, and you have seen for yourself in this fight how unscrupulous they are to each other, that they are also able to bring members of their national minorities against each other. You can't be complicit. We're going to talk about concrete solutions in detail, and I have to tell you, and I'm almost going crazy with solutions. This should not be a law for something that is sui generis, because it does not meet the conditions, this should be a law that must be in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. This criterion of consent does not meet this proposed text.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-21-0.u24725	Mrs. Olena Papuga has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-21-0.u24726	Dear Presidents, the presidency, Mr Minister, State Secretary, MPs of the Social Democrats League of Vojvodina positively assess the law on national councils of national minorities. For us, it is an acceptable term - the national communities, which we have long waited for, since the first national councils were founded in 2002. I can tell they've functioned without law for seven years. The draft law on national minority councils is not ideal, but the LSV will still support the law, but we have tabled several amendments to improve the law. One part of the amendment, in my opinion, is that I come from a news-issued institution, whose founding rights were transferred from the Vojvodina Assembly to the national council in 2005. In some ways, I am grateful to speak of the fact that the law has devoted little space in its members to the relations of national councils and news-issue institutions, and I think it is one objection to that law. I can say that the province MPs of the Social Democratic League of Vojvodina did not vote in 2005 for the transfer of founding rights from the Vojvodina Assembly to national councils, with some concern that the minority vote would become in some way the newsletters of national councils. That's what happened in some cases. I can especially say that it happened in the newsroom where I work. I have proposed amendments to Articles 19 and 20, that they be extended and that these members not only apply to broadcasting institutions, but also to news and publishing institutions. The law stipulates that in institutions and in other areas, some areas can be governed by the statutes, but I still think that the law should provide for certain rights and obligations of national councils in news and publishing institutions.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-21-0.u24727	He has the word Stefan Zankov. Next, Bajram Šehovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-21-0.u24728	Madam President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at the beginning, on behalf of the Sandzak People's Democratic Party MPs, I would like to express my satisfaction that the Government and the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights have submitted the draft law on national minority councils to the assembly procedure. The role of national councils is to represent a national minority in the fields of education, culture, communication in the language of national minorities and official use of languages and letters, as well as to participate in the decision-making process or decide on issues in these areas, as well as to establish institutions, companies and other organisations in this area. The members of national minorities, in addition to the rights guaranteed by the Constitution to all citizens, are granted additional rights in those areas. The constitution also says that national councils are being educated in these areas under the law. The 2002 Law on the Protection of the Rights and Freedom of National Minorities also provides for the establishment of national councils of national minorities. Article 21 The Law on the Protection of the Rights and Freedom of National Minorities indicates that when hiring in public services, including the police, the national composition of the population, the appropriate representation and knowledge of language spoken in the field of organs or services are taken into account. We now have a draft law on national minority councils, on their competencies, on the authorities, on the selection and financing of national councils. In the field of education competences, a national council under the law can establish educational and education institutions and exercise the rights of founders. It is also intended, as a form of participation of national councils in the management of educational and educational institutions, to give opinions on candidates for members of the board of directors or school board, on a candidate for school director, on the discharge of directors and members of the board of directors, to give prior consent to the selection of directors of institutions in which in most departments work is carried out in the language of the national minority. I particularly believe that it is important that the National Council proposes to the National Educational Council of the General Basic of the Preschool Programme, the Educational Plans and the basic and secondary education programmes for the language of the national minority and gives an opinion to the National Educational Council on Serbian Language Educational Programmes as an immaterial language. The National Council gives prior consent to the National Educational Council for the proposal of textbooks expressing the specificity of national minorities. National councils may propose at least one candidate for a joint list of candidates for the selection of members of the National Education Council and shall take part in all matters covered by the competence of the National Education Council. In a similar way, it is an area of culture: these are, in addition to the founding rights, the right to participate in the management of a cultural institution, to establish cultural institutions of particular importance for the preservation and development of the culture of the national minority and a number of other substantive rights in the field of cultural self-government. Not to forget, and to propose candidates for a common list of candidates for the National Council for Culture election. In the field of information, there seems to be a slight misunderstanding in the public. Namely, in Article 18. The bill found that the national council could, in a manner prescribed by law, set up institutions and companies to carry out news and television activities, and exercise the rights and obligations of founders. Some media associations warn that the 2003 Public Information Act explicitly requires that state, state authorities and legal entities financed from the budget cannot be the founders of public ballots. They consider the Public Information Act to be a roof law. However, after this law was passed, the Constitution of Serbia, which is in the article. In 79, it explicitly says that members of national minorities have the right to establish their own means of public notification in accordance with the law. The Law on Local Self-Government of December 2007, in Article 20, point 34, states that the municipality establishes television and radio stations through its authorities to report on the language of the national minority in the municipality in official use, as well as for reporting in the language of a national minority who is not in official use when such reporting is a level of minority rights reached. Therefore, I believe that there is a legal basis for jurisdiction in the field of notification, and if there is any discrepancies, it must be removed accordingly. As far as the election of the National Council is concerned, two options are given. These are direct elections and elections through the electoral assembly. In every respect, I give priority to the direct elections because they are fairer, they reflect the voter's will and the secrecy of the vote. I am merely concerned about drawing up a special voter list of national minorities to hold direct elections, as under Article 28(3), the requirement to hold direct elections for national councils is to enroll more than 50% of the total number of members of the national minority according to the last census, reduced by 20%. With the Bosniak national minority, this figure is about 56,000 voters listed in a special polling list, which I consider to be a significant number. That is why we have submitted an amendment to this article of the bill to reduce this percentage to 20% or to make a 20% concession for the first elections of the National Council, and to apply the provision of Article 28 for each subsequent selection of the National Council. Bills and proportions of 50% reduced by 20%. In the case of local funding, no amount of funding has been determined at the annual level to be allocated to national councils, as well as a proportion to the allocation of funds to national councils. However, for other budget users, the honour of exceptions has not been established in advance, as the budget is based on planning, as well as the work of national councils. We are left to hope, but to contribute together with work and responsibility to making the Republic of Serbia's budget more money and to make all citizens happy. We put some other amendments on the bill, e.g. that in the election of national councils, given the dispersibility of national minorities, polling stations may have less than 100 voters and that polling stations are determined on the IKP proposal for the polling area. So we ask the Ministry to pay attention to our amendments, because they are constructive. The electoral laws and electoral processes we know very well, both mathematically and in any other sense, and our goal is to make the law as good as possible. In the end, I want to say again that this bill is very good. The Sandzak Democratic Party MPs within the ZES group will vote with satisfaction for the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-21-0.u24729	The word is Dragan Zivkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-21-0.u24730	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, as you've heard in your previous presentation of the SRS, our party and Parliament club will not vote for this law for any more reason. Many of these reasons are mentioned in the comments of previous colleagues, but I would like to focus most on the lack of law, i.e.. an attempt by national minorities to exercise their rights through this law. I would like to warn that in municipalities and environments where the national structure of the population is different than Serbs, I would like to say that they have tried the same in earlier periods by also implementing a bill or protocol. As it used to be, signed protocols, but in eight municipalities in northern Backa, you remember that very well, how exploited that was in the media and what the national structure wanted to achieve by that protocol, that protocol was signed in eight municipalities and remained a dead letter on paper. I just want to say that this law is most likely, since it has been left behind, we have heard in comments from both other MPs and MPs of national minorities, the alternative of elections, i.e.. whether there will be direct elections or will be the way it has been so far, the electoral assembly or by means of the electorate. So far, as it has been implemented, it is likely that the national minorities were dissatisfied and the manipulation of such an election has led to change and pressure from national minorities. We also heard from the minister in his statement that all national minorities participated in the creation of this bill. We heard from the minister that in Serbia it was registered, i.e. select 16 councils of 28 minorities, how many there are. The question arises – what will happen to the other minorities who have not chosen advice and how will they choose them? There's a problem with this law in three settings. It's a safe choice, electric or direct, then funding and special lists. We have heard a lot of conversations about the special lists today, and suggestions and comments, but I think that the special lists, the very word "special lists" quoted and associated something that is not appropriate as regards the voter's list. The polling list has been a single polling list for Serbia so far, and I think a special polling list of national minorities will be misused, especially in elections or, if necessary, by the state-run structure. I just want to compare, for example. Who follows a little sport, how much basketball has progressed that in the last seconds you don't know the result and by the last second you won't know the final result. So I think this special list and this law will absolutely regulate that the last election night changes the result. We already had that on the political scene. Let me remind you, I think Mr Krasic mentioned that, too, we had in the last presidential elections, that's what the media was reporting, which the national minority will support. Now these special lists will be far easier for the political structure that is ruling and the governing structure to set up in Serbia, i.e. The last night is negotiating with certain structures, political ones, to achieve the result, because, of course, research is very accurate now in Serbia's political life and by the last night, it will not be known where the tight results are, who will take the lead. As for the financing of national councils and national structures in the Republic of Serbia, so far there has been a comment over the fact that the government, the one that passed laws on the financing of political parties and now national councils, I think it is unnecessary what the government has been giving so far, coordinators and funding controllers. If the law and the Constitution guarantee it, then there is no need for national councils to be under the influence of the government and controlled as to the distribution of financial resources. Those financial resources will certainly be misused, and this part of the law that guarantees it will, of course, be re-election campaigns. Certain national councils will receive financial assistance or what follows them in such a way, with negotiations, as has been so far – if you support this and that option. It'll probably be easier to get financial resources. Given that everything is being abused in the Republic of Serbia, I think our political option has talked a lot and commented and there is no reason for us to doubt that this will not continue to be misused. As far as information is concerned, I come from a city that is certainly multinational, as many as 50% of Hungarians have in the municipality of Vienna, I believe that their rights regarding information at local level are fully guaranteed and have all the rights that follow them as far as local self-government is concerned, but as far as national media and national information is concerned, national councils will certainly get as much space as they are loyal. In view of national structures and advice, they should not be loyal to be respected or fulfilled by law, so they should be fenced from such events.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-21-0.u24731	Ambassador Aleksandar Martinovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-21-0.u24732	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I hope you understand me when I tell you that we now have a specific phenomenon in the Serbian Parliament, and this phenomenon has something to do with the content of your bill. In fact, there are some MPs in the English Parliament, and you know it well, which are called collokchially whips. They should discipline the ruling coalition's MPs to be in the O.R., to attend sessions, so that some draft law does not go away because a number of MPs are not present at the session. We have similar whips here in the Serbian Parliament, but they don't do that job that's done in the English Parliament. In the English Parliament, whips force MPs to come to the assembly session, to be present in the hall, and to do the work for which the people have chosen them. We have some other kind of whip, and that's not to be asked not to talk about a point that's on the agenda because it's approaching 1800 hours and it's due to move to the next agenda points. I hope that you have recognized in these words one such whip from the DS, which, behold, asked Tamash Tot, Pavel Marchok, therefore members of the national minorities, not to talk about the National Councils bill, so that this debate could be completed by 6:00 p.m. and that it could be moved to another agenda point. You see, Mr. Minister, how we have turned all democratic institutions, and here and the institution of the whip, completely into its opposite. Mr. Minister, you will agree with me when I tell you that the picture of the Balkans and the picture of Southeast Europe in general is in national, religious, racial, cultural, linguistic sense of the charred. It is Serbia, but it is more or less so and all countries with which the Republic of Serbia is bordering today. In such a state of affairs, the basic principle that must be respected is the principle of reciprocity and the question must inevitably be asked, when we talk about the position of members of national minorities in Serbia -- what is the position of members of the Serb people in countries today bordering the Republic of Serbia? I mean, above all, Croatia, Montenegro, Hungary, Romania, Albania. So, what is the position of the Serb people in these countries? What is the position of the Serbian people in Croatia, you probably know that well. During the 1990s, Tudjmanovrežim exercised genocide over the Serb people in Republika Srpska Krajina and practically in all municipalities and cities that did not enter Republika Srpska, Serbs from these municipalities and cities were most exiled, here I think of Zagreb, naKarlovac, Gospić, Zadar, Sisak, Osijek, etc. Speaking of Croatia, Mr. Minister, since you and I are coming from Vojvodina, on Sunday I think that almost all of Vojvodina, or at least most of Vojvodina, especially those residents of Vojvodina who have cable TV, could follow directly to the Second Programme of Croatian Television, the concert of Mark Perkovic Thompson. You must have heard of Thompson, Mr. Chiplet. This is, among other things, the singer who has the song "Jasenovac and Gradiška old". That song was also sung at this concert. From that song, not just every Serb, I think every normal man, who has some rational notions of life and people around him, really gets skins and hairs on his head. Otherwise, Mr. Minister, the song "Jasenovac and Gradiška Stara" quoted Dr. Vojislav Seselj as saying in one of his submissions to the UN war crimes tribunal to prove that the actual hate speech, which he was accused of, was actually on the side of Croatia rather than in his political performances. Of course, I will not quote all the words of these really morbid and pathological songs to you now, but here are some verses: “Jasenovac and Gradiška old, this is the house of Max’s butchers; in Chaplj’s slaughterhouse was, many of the Serbs were carrying Neretva. ” Imagine, Mr. Minister, how a Serb in Osijek, Vinkovci, Zagreb, Split, Dubrovnik feels when he hears the words of the song. I believe that you too have become chilly even though you do not live in any of these Croatian cities, but from that song the Serbs in Novi Sad, and Serbs in Sombor, and Serbs in Sremska Mitrovica, both in Panchev and here in Belgrade. I wonder if the Government of the Republic of Serbia, whose member you are, has sent some kind of demarcation to the Croatian ambassador to Belgrade on the occasion of a scandalous fact that a concert of a man who directly, in the most immediate manner, calls for the destruction of the Serbian people, is being transmitted directly to the Second Programme of Official Radio-Television. What is the position of the Serbs in Hungary? You know, Mr. Chiplic, at the end of the 17th century with Patriarch Arsenija Charnojevic, the Serbs came all the way up to Budapest and St. Andrea. They had a lot of schools there, lots of churches, monasteries, and they really meant a lot in cultural terms in Hungary in the 18th and 19th centuries. See what the ethnic picture of the Serbian people in Hungary is now, 90% of Serbs are one national community that is fully assimilated to Hungarian political and cultural life. These people no longer feel like Serbs, they speak Hungarian, give their children Hungarian names, and many of them have moved to the Union or have gone directly to the Roman Catholic confession. In Albania, you know what happened at the time of Communist dictator Enver Hodge. Serbs were mass-killed and expelled, and imagine, in a communist regime, they were forced violently by a Muslim religion of a regime that was at least formally completely atheistic. A similar thing happened in Romania at the time of their communist dictator, or various communist dictators. There, Serbs were mass-killed in Romanian caves, goulashes, etc. Many Serbs in Romania, as well as those in Albania, as in Hungary, lost their national and cultural identity. About what's going on in Montenegro today, I don't think there's even too much to spend. There is a true linguistic, cultural and religious genocide over the Serb people. There is a people who have created the state of Montenegro practically declared a national minority. Today, Negos is building a minority Catholic archbishop who has absolutely nothing to do with Serbs and the Serbian Orthodox Church. I haven't really heard, either you or some of your colleagues may have said that, but I haven't noticed that fact, that you have sent one word of protest against all these terrible things that are happening today against the people of the Serbian people in the surrounding countries, especially in Croatia and especially in Montenegro. As for the name of the law, Mr. Minister, he was accidentally elected. Here's why. You know, in Anglo-Saxon legal terminology when you say the nation, then you're actually thinking about the state. The nation is in English the same as the state, so state. In older legal writers, such as Slobodan Jovanovic, there is a difference between the nation and the people. People, it's citizens, it's an electoral body, it's all those who have the right to vote, regardless of their national, religious and racial membership, and the nation, it's a particular community that has certain ethnic, religious, racial, linguistic and cultural personalities. In what context do you mention the nation's term in the National Councils Bill? For you the term nation is reserved exclusively for members of national minorities. Only they have the right to form their national councils. It now turns out that Serbs in their own country are not a nation. And what are they? It really raises questions about what Serbs are in the Republic of Serbia today, because if you read this bill from the beginning to the end, you will come to the same conclusion that I have come to, that the status of the nation and the character of the nation only have members of national minorities, and that Serbs do not seem to enter that category. That, of course, is completely wrong, because when you say national advice, then you can't go ahead, you just can't logically rule out the idea of members of the Serbian people. The question is - why should the right to form its national council be given only by Hungarians, Slovaks, Romanians, Bulgarians, Roma and Croats, etc., and not by Serbs. You of the bill fully require members of the Serb people, and you only bind that term to members of the national minorities. Of course, the SRS has no objection that members of national minorities are organised into national councils and that through national councils they protect their national, religious, cultural identity, to cultivate their history, culture, tradition, etc. In a legal sense, in a political sense, in a historical sense, it is entirely incorrect to bind the term of the nation and to bind it exclusively to members of the national minorities, and to the Serbian people to deny it. What I also want to point out, Mr. Minister, is one danger that is lessened by a document called the Statute of the AP Vojvodina. Writers of the statute, above all, did not have good intentions for members of the national minorities. They are filled with the mouth of human and minority rights, the rights of Hungary, Slovakia, Romania, Roma, etc., but only in language. In practice, they do everything the opposite of that. Why do I say that? If you have read the Statute of Vojvodina, then you have been able to notice that this statute provides for education, so-called education. Saturday's administrative district. Subotic administrative districts should unite all municipalities where Hungarians or majority or population are largely represented. When the term Subotic County is translated into a political language, then it actually means the ghettoisation of national minorities, then it means that national minorities of Hungary, Slovakia, Romania, Roma and others should be driven, so to speak, into their national cake and in that national tower of a certain elder, certain shepherds of that tower should be asked about everything that will happen within the framework of that national minority. The SRS is against it, Mr. Minister. We are against any ghetto in the Republic of Serbia. We are against the fact that any national minority in Serbia is being built upon by some kind of floats and living with some of its lives, completely independent of the state's life and of the lives of members of the majority Serb people. What is the ideal of the SRS is a state where all its citizens will be equal absolutely in everything. That we all live the life of a decent man, that we all live the way you want it, and how I want it, you live for yours, and I live for my children. What happens today in the AP Vojvodina, and you will also allow this bill, if you vote it, is that members of the national minorities really group into a ghetto that will be autarchic and that will live more or less isolated than members of the majority people. Mr. Minister, I really disagree with you when you said in your statement that only the 2006 Constitution has enabled what you call a national self-government. That's just not true. You know that the 1990 Constitution absolutely guaranteed all possible rights to members of national minorities in the Republic of Serbia and by 2006 the members of national minorities could learn in their own language to inform themselves in their own language, to make their native language one of the official languages in the municipalities where they live. Nothing new in this 2006 Constitution area has been brought in. This can be witnessed by members of national minorities themselves, their status, their rights and obligations are the same today as they were in 1992 and 1995 and 2000. Absolutely, there are no fundamental changes on that plan. What's the fundamental problem with your bill? You have allowed only the political parties of the national minorities to propose a candidate for members of the national council and the Serbian government has chosen the worst one out of practically three options. The first option was to ban, not to ban, but to simply eliminate political parties from the process of running for the national council. What's the national council supposed to be? One body that must not deal with daily politics, but a body that protects authentic historical, linguistic, religious, cultural rights of members of national minorities, as we in the SRS want Serbs living in Hungary, Romania or Albania to be Serbs, to feel, to speak their language, to use the Cyrillic letter, to give their children Serbian names. We also advocate this when it comes to national minorities in Serbia. We would be great hypocrites if we were to fight for the rights of Serbs in neighbouring countries, and these same rights would be denied to members of national minorities. The Hungarian in Serbia should feel Hungarian, should speak his native language, should be educated in his native language, should be informed in his native language, but the national council should not be thrown into the arena of political, better said day-to-day political struggles. You have this solution, that only the political organisations that gather national minorities have the exclusive right to propose candidates for members of the National Council, have practically made this danger very real and very certain. Another option was to allow all political organisations to run for members of national councils and to define the SRS in one of their amendments. However, you have just chosen this third, worst possibility that only the political parties of national minorities have the right to propose candidates for members of the national council. The question is, why did you do it? It turns out that the National Council will be nothing more than the extended arm of a political party that brings together members of national minorities. On the other hand, Mr. Minister, you have indirectly acknowledged that only the political parties that have the minority or so on are fighting for the rights of the national minorities in this country. a minority omen, which is not true at all. I believe the SRS is also fighting for the rights of national minorities. We prove it by our actions, not by talking in the wind about human and minority rights, no, we have MPs from the ranks of national minorities. We also have them in the Serbian Parliament, we have them in the Vojvodina Assembly, we have committees in local congregations that are members of national minorities, we have presidents of municipal committees who are members of national minorities. We thus prove that we are also interested in respecting minority rights. Where is the right for the Serbian government to say -- only the parties that gather national minorities, only they should have the right to propose candidates for members of the national council? You see, Mr. Minister, since 1993, the SRS has been, as the DS would say, a dark, totalitarian time, a dark 1990s, a former regime, etc. In the 1993 elections here at the National Assembly, among other things, as a member of the SRS, Mrs Elvira Fekete, Hungary, a Roman Catholic, was elected, but a member of the SRS and fought, believe me, for Serbian national and state interests even more fiery than many Serbs. Now you see how unsustainable your solution in life is. You believe that only parties gathering national minorities should have the right to propose candidates for a national council, which is a very dangerous solution. Either the political parties should not interfere at all with the running process or, if you have already given them that right, give it to all political parties. And not that you also getoise members of national minorities in this way, because, Mr. Minister, the facts show that citizens of the Republic of Serbia who belong to a particular national minority do not vote by definition for their own or "for their" minority party, vote both for the SRS, and for the SAA, and for the DSS, which do not have a minority omen. So, what is the right for the Serbian government to push all members of the national minorities in the Republic of Serbia into the arms of a political party that brings together members of a particular national minority? It does not say anywhere, and nowhere is guaranteed and there is no guarantee that Hungary must always, by definition, vote for its "own" Hungarian national party. Why? Well, many Hungarians vote for parties that do not have a minority object because they recognise, on the one hand, Serbia as a country where their minority rights, on the other hand, are seen in other parties that do not have the minority party omens that are also fighting for their minority rights. In general, the whole concept of the National Council Bill, the whole concept of the Vojvodina Statute, which in some magical way came out of the public's focus, actually wants national minorities to be placed in a certain ghetto. The SRS is against it. You know, Mr. Minister, only in the Middle Ages people were tied to that piece of land they were born on. Why should a Hungarian who finishes college, say, in Novi Sad or Subotica, have to be an engineer, judge or doctor in Novi Sad, in Kovacica, in Pančevo, in Somboro or in Subotica for the rest of his life? Why can't those same occupations be done in Belgrade, in Sapac, in Valjev, in Nis, in Vranj, in Leskovac and Negotin? Why do you tie it up, it's an idea that's in the subtext of this bill. You are members of the national minority, as in the Middle Ages, bound to the territory in which he was born. The territory should be maximum isolated from members of the majority people. You are also proving this by the fact that you are practically pushing national councils into the hands of certain political parties, which have a sign that they are protecting the rights of national minorities. So, you do not thus not protect, not affirm the rights of members of minority communities in Serbia, no, you are politically instrumentalising members of national minorities. Because suma suma sumarum, when everything is summed up and taken away, in addition to all the nice words about European standards, democratic principles, integrations, etc., what is the essence of this bill? That DS and its coalition partners, who today are one another tomorrow, are provided with voting machinery in future elections, that only DS has the status of some political mentor of political parties gathering members of national minorities. When the election time comes, then you will use individual political parties of national minorities, and hence, through national councils, to mobilise members of the national minorities to vote for the DS. That is the essence of this bill, not to protect their language, tradition, culture, customs. You want political instrumentalisation of national minorities in Serbia. The SRS is against it. So national minorities have to have some bodies, some forums, some instances through which they protect their national, religious, racial, language and other personalities, but nothing other than that. Political instrumentalisation of national minorities, that's the worst thing you can do to members of national minorities, on the one hand, do to the bear services to the national minorities by pushing in one indirect way into their national ghettos, into their flocks, into their downfalls. Such a policy will not bring new things to members of the national minorities. Here's just one example from mine and from your practice, Mr. Minister. A student came to the Faculty of Law in Novi Sad for one examination, according to his nationality, Hungarian. Here's what this national minority ghetto policy has led to. The young man could hardly spell Serbian, and he did not pass the exam not because he had not studied, although he probably had trouble reading a textbook written in Cyrillic, but simply because he could not express his knowledge in the official Serbian language. That's what the Serbian Radical Party is trying to stop. May Hungary, Romania, be educated to certain educational levels in its native language, but the state must train it to be a judge, to be a doctor, to be an engineer, to be a civil servant, just as it was born in another region of the Republic of Serbia, where there are no members of national minorities or its national minority at all. The position of the SRS is a clear, complete equality of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, respect for the principles of the sovereignty of citizens and absolute equality before the Constitution and the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-21-0.u24733	The word is Mrs. Marina Toman. There are five minutes left for your parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-21-0.u24734	During the discussion, we could hear very serious remarks. The bill is well packaged, so at first glance we can say that's it, we'll have a broadly defined minority self-government in accordance with the Constitution and the law. However, the promoter did not think about what was beneath the surface or perhaps deliberately deny it, as if he had not deliberately thought about the traps that this broadly defined self-government creates. Will she be able to do as the promoter has prescribed to be implemented in practice? He won't. Will she in any way perform the ghettoisation of national minorities? I'm reluctant to admit that's the way it is in certain areas and parts of it. The main objections relate to the choice of members of the National Council, to certain competences in the fields of education, culture, communication, but also to the powers consisting of the submission of a proposal and an opinion. We can express concern that in multinational environments, interested national councils may come into conflict when it comes to various proposals, especially those relating to the appointment of board members. In the end, I'd like to look back on another area, a very important area, which today wasn't enough to talk about. The issue of information, i.e. communication in the language of national minorities, is very important and has been discussed for years. The International Calls Committee in the previous meeting has discussed this several times, especially since certain laws defining this area, primarily in the area of broadcasting, are in contradiction with the Constitution and with international conventions. Our view is that it should primarily deal with RTS as a public service, however, so far we have only a Roma-language show, which is certainly a shift, especially if it takes into account the fact that this is a Decade of Roma and that much has to be done at the implementation of Roma in local society. What about other national minorities? National minorities living in the AP Vojvodina area are able to monitor shows on Vojvodina TV in their native language, but what about those living in other parts of Serbia? Do they, for example, have the right to be informed in their native language? Doesn't the Constitution have every right to be fully and timely informed of matters of public importance? Does the Constitution not give members of national minorities the right to complete, timely and impartial notification in their own language? Of course it belongs to them under the Constitution. The promoter, likely trying to remove the mentioned shortcomings that are indeed a major problem when it comes to national minorities, rules that national councils of national minorities can be founders and owners of lists, radio and television stations. We think this is going to be difficult in practice. What will it look like in the environments in which members of the national minorities live? Will there be discrimination against individual national minorities in this case? The bill, which is presented as respect for the differences between national minorities and their specificities, will have the opposite effect. Here we come to the already mentioned problem of discrepancies with individual laws. The maximum number of frequencies, except for the local level, has already been deployed. On the other hand, the Radio Diffusion Act envisioned the end of privatisation by 2007, so the deadline, precisely because of the information in the languages of national minorities, was moved to a further point. However, the final attitude is not taken. National councils, and if they become owners of radio-television companies, they won't have anywhere to broadcast the program. On the other hand, if you tell them the local self-government, which has a media in its possession, conveys founding rights, I fear that the fate of that media is not so great precisely because of the lack of funding. The law also stipulates that national councils can make proposals to the Republican Broadcasting Agency when drawing up a development strategy. The strategy, to remind you, was made by 2013. Article 130 of this Law provides for provisions that in some ways regulate, i.e. move choices and proposals to re-election. Indeed, the said member partially resolves the above-mentioned doubt. But he also creates an absurd situation. If I were to remind you, today is 2009, a new strategy by law should see the light of the day of 2013, so four years from now. Will national councils of national minorities, after the establishment of companies and institutions to deal with radio-television activity, wait until 2013? Also, the same problem is in selecting members of the Radiodifuge Agency's board. This advice has nine members. All places are filled (President: Finish please. Time's up. And finally, let me repeat and conclude, one whole part of the Constitution is dedicated to human and minority rights and freedoms. In that sense, the blade of our criticism is not aimed at the Constitution, but this... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-21-0.u24735	Thank you. Mr. Otto Kishmarton.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-21-0.u24736	How many minutes do I have left?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-21-0.u24737	Two minutes and 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-21-0.u24738	And as an authorised representative?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-21-0.u24739	As authorized, you've wasted your time. Please, you have nothing. [[Training from bench: As authorized seven minutes and 40 seconds.]] Would you like to sign up? You have two minutes and 30 seconds left. There's a list. Will you talk? No, I don't. I thank you. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before I conclude, does anyone who has not used their right under Rule 93 of our Rules of Procedure want to take advantage of it? Mr. Zeljko Tomic, he has a minute and 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-21-0.u24740	Thank you. It'll be enough to ask three questions, the first two I haven't got an answer for now. As far as the election is concerned, I repeat the question, where does such a model exist? I gave you an example in Hungary and Croatia. Does Serbia remain a unique example in the world? I guarantee and I'm sure, as people say, I can bet this is extremely difficult, almost inconclusive. The elections for national councils are like a stone around the door for all future political authorities in Serbia and I will remind you, when the DSS came to power, the first thing we did was to amend the Law on the selection of MPs and allow the parties of national minorities to come to parliament through the threshold, to enter. That's how we're gonna change this if you adopt. It'll be one of the first DSS moves. Article 12(3) of the National Council gives an opinion to the National Educational Council on the Serbian language teaching programmes. Give me an example in a world where a national community gives the majority community this kind of opinion. It doesn't exist anywhere in the world. Thirdly, Mr. Minister, I quote you - a clear norm is causing a dilemma. I'm asking you, what causes a vague norm?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-21-0.u24741	Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic, advertises the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-21-0.u24742	I'm advertising a breach of Rules of Procedure, Rule 93, which speaks of the order and timing of speakers. Please, let us not do what will bring down the dignity of the Assembly, to ask for stenographic notes at the moment when Otto Kishmarton spoke and unequivocally establish that he spoke 12 minutes and 50 seconds and a few seconds, all in all 13 minutes. We left for the end of the debate, and after the statement of all interested, that, possibly, in the name of the parliamentary group, he was commenting. As far as we're concerned, no irreparable damage will occur if Otto Kishmarton doesn't speak again, but it's a shame to run this way in time to begin the next item of the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-21-0.u24743	Of course I already gave you a warrant. You practically already advertised before you heard from me. You don't think it's a good time. I gave the order to check it based on the stenographic notes and before your proposal. We'll absolutely do it, but I'll be running by these parameters by now. Mr. Minister, do you want a word? Here you go. Excuse me, before you, Mr. Markicevic. You have 10 minutes, Mr. Markicevic. Here you go. They tell me you have 11 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-21-0.u24744	Madam President, Mr. Secretary, first I want to tell you something personal. If I meet you personally on the street at any time, and when you're not president and you're not a member of the SPS, and if you're a member of the SPS, I'll always be the kindest person to contact you, but that doesn't mean I won't blame you for some things, because I thought last night was an accident, she was my, maybe inappropriate, breaking into the mail train. I can see it's going to happen tonight, too. What exactly do I want to say and suggest? Why have you abolished the institution's consultation of the heads of Parliament's groups? This kind of thing, and the intrusions, and the objections of a justifiable, particularly opposition MPs, I think, and that's my humble opinion, that they happen because there are no such consultations between the heads of parliament, where many disagreements, not in front of the cameras, have been resolved and negotiated. I'm not saying we always agreed on everything, but at least we tried and there were results. I don't think that's your political will, not to hold the consultation, but the lady sitting next to you. Please schedule these consultations independently of Mrs Gordana Komic, who is about some president from the shadow of this National Assembly, which I do not admit. I'm just admitting you as president of the assembly. Now I want to talk about the subject. Mr. Minister, I expected you today on this subject, so to speak, you will be positively provoked, but about this goes through some patterns during, at the end of 10 minutes, the minister. It is impossible that all today's discussions that were here from various parliamentary groups, ruling and opposition, no one has suggested anything that might interest you, to try to change this law or to get some clearer explanation. Maybe we're wrong. But what I want to say to you, from all this that I have sublimed, concluded and listened to, it seems to me that Mr Tomislav Nikolic is at least in one thing right, that we Serbs in our own country, in the state of Serbia, are forced to seek the formation of a national council. A few days ago, I called you in the press and asked you, perhaps not to read that newspaper, possibly that they will be on the list for the shooting at the adoption, I hope not to pass, the new information law, where I asked for the human rights of Serbs, does this apriori mean that you as Minister of Minority and Human Rights are just dealing with the human rights of minorities? When I say minority in this country, I don't mean national minorities, but at all a minority, a social minority. If so, if that is how I understood how you perform in the Assembly or the public, I tell you right now, I haven't forgotten how you're going to discipline the MPs, and you see how it is in the National Assembly -- it's not exactly like that. I need to speak first before you do. So you can't discipline the MPs. We don't want you either, we chose you or we didn't choose you, but we still need to know what the National Assembly is. Why am I saying this about Serbs, that they're going to need national advice at the end? It seems to me that this country and our citizens, a set like this in the country these years, has been particularly bad because it has proved that in a number of situations in this country, the majority people, Serbs, are too loud in one way or another. I can give you many examples, but let's just say the adoption of the Regional Development Act. The entire municipalities, SO in Nova Varosha, have rebelled, unanimously all the committees and your parties, Mr. Minister, have made some decisions and no one is responding. They become, in particular, Serbian citizens in the municipalities of Priboj, Prepolje and Nova Varoš, someone calls it Sandzak municipalities, I don't know on what basis, where it writes, in which map, in which document, in which the law of this country, someone with their rights, I would say national and human rights, is trading. Some so-called Sandzak Forum, whose head Zukorlic, Ugljanin, Rasim Ljajic, is not known who their boss, perhaps Mustafa Ceric from Sarajevo, has made such a statement in the media – that they have accepted the government's guarantees, and that in that case they will vote in favour of the Regional Development Act, as they have voted. Now I ask you here – no matter what it will be, most likely, at five o'clock in the morning, since the cyclists are driving now, but this is radio and Slobo, Mr Minister, this with the media and the information, and with an attempt to marginalise the opposition, I am now talking about the human rights of the opposition in this assembly, but it has been since 5 October, you haven't learned anything from this lesson, so I don't really want to repeat in this country October 5th, but that in the Assembly, in the institutions, in the government, you solve the problems that this country has – I ask you, would you be kind to the public, for the sake of the citizens, Serbs from the municipality of Nova Varosh, Priboj, Prepolje, to say what guarantees you have given so-called state. The Sanjay Forum of MPs? Nothing in this country, as well as the globe of the Earth, and especially in one such important activity as politics, which depends on the fate and lives of thousands and millions of people, nothing is an accident. A day or two after that, Mr. Minister, just to remind you, the exercise of minority rights in the Raška area has been required, specifically, to be bilingual on the roads and on all institutions, both state and municipal. Now I'm asking you, Mr. Minister, since you're probably in charge of minority rights, that you do this, I don't mind, I personally tell you, today when I mentioned my son and other sons who aren't called as my son, and they're not faiths like my son, and they're not nations, I don't want one percent of the right, nothing more for my children that I want my children in this country, I need to ask you, then, is there any end to the exercise of certain rights, and we are in the exercise of some rights and minority rights so on. Cross Europe? Do some politicians, not to say to you representatives of the Western embassies, as they say to me at some receptions, with half whispers, not to the public, you people are exaggerating with these rights, making problems for us in our countries. So then one of your colleagues asked you – and I hope that you will have time and that the President of the Assembly will not do with you what she did last night with poor Mr Oliver Dulic, who had much to say, that at least a few minutes will remain for you to answer these questions, you are probably preparing for the answer and the question – what is the position of Serbs as minorities in the neighbouring countries? If we're right, I'm asking you honestly, maybe I'm not informed enough. , do we have the right to condition the degree of these rights that have minorities in our country with Serbs as a minority in neighbouring countries in a conversation with the representatives of neighbouring countries? Let's say, since you're from Vojvodina, I've heard that in the Hungarian Party they can't have a national omen, a minority party, is that correct? I'd like you to answer that question for me. What is the position of the Serbs in Romania? Is he there through an alliance of writers, some association of Serbs, can he only go through that organization to affirm himself and who can protect Serbs there at all? And what happens in eastern Serbia? Why don't we act like a state? Is it enough just that Romania has not recognised Kosovo that we are silent about what is happening in eastern Serbia. Mr. Minister, I expect you to be very precise, although I can see that you're misjudged to follow what I'm saying, they're not naive at all. We have here and the CEC, the Central Election Commission, so we're talking about these laws, we have elections, we have practically state affairs doubled to satisfy the appetites of national minorities and not broad masses. I'm sure of it, I said in my opinion what members of the national minorities hurt the most, the hard life. The Hungarians, Romanians, and Croats, and Bosniaks and all live equally badly in this country. We deal with fog and throw bones to the people of the so-called. You can't even leave that on TV. When I mentioned the Raska area earlier, I ask you a question, Mr. Minister, I assume that you will zealously exercise the rights that have national minorities, and also ask the representatives, if there is a representative here from the Sandzah Qurum of Sandzak MPs, I don't know what they're called, as they say, Mr. Minister, the New Market Language? How do you say in the Bosnian language of Prepolje? What is the name of Nova Varosh in Bosnian? So these people know the tolls, when they hit those boards so they don't make a mistake. So, lightmotivus, the creamworth of what I said, remember today what I was saying, some little MP from Cacca, as the Bosnian language says Novi Pazar, dear Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-21-0.u24745	Given the stenographic notes, Mr. Otto Kishmarton began speaking in five to 12, and ended in 12 and 15, so 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-21-0.u24746	I really want us to bring this session to an end today in a dignified way. I appeal to Rule 27, you are obliged to lead this assembly in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and to worry about Parliament's dignity. We might believe you, I have no reason to doubt in the stenographic notes, but there are MPs of the entire parliamentary group and MPs who were sitting, who were witnesses as the SNS MP spoke. Your information simply doesn't match the fact that Mr. Kishmarton spoke for 13 minutes. We all know what this is about. That's no reason to have this kind of dispute, and Mr. Kishmarton represents minorities, and I don't think it's too much to allow that if there's a disputed matter, and you have all the SNS MPs who claim that he's spoken for 13 minutes and he has seven plus two minutes in front of the parliamentary group, that you really let him. So there is absolutely no reason not to, in order to end this debate in a dignified and tolerated way. The minister must have the need to address us at the end of the discussion and to complete his comment. I really don't see why in a slightly violent way he's trying to stop this debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-21-0.u24747	There's no breach of the Rules of Procedure. As you can see, I have consulted the stenographic notes. You know that when someone starts talking, the time is recorded, and when it ends, the time is also recorded. Mr. Otto Kishmarton had a chance to see. Indeed, before all of you, I am obliged to protect the right of every speaker, or every messenger. Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-21-0.u24748	I point out the violation of Rules of Procedure, Rule 27, where the President of the Assembly is responsible, where you are under Section 1 under point 3 of your duty to take care of the application of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. All the time until the break and after the break, I sit here and take part in a congregation session. Otto Kishmarton, as an authorised representative of the parliamentary group, spoke for 13 minutes, which I have my own notes on. You can't attend for sure 50 people, but at least 10 members of the Progressive Serbia parliamentary group, assume the stenographic notes of one or two people. You can't convince us 10 that you're right and I really think that your duty to take care of the application of the Rules of Procedure goes beyond all the reasons why anyone cares to start with the next agenda. The agenda will pass, and one more day, the session will pass, but there will be an inadmissible attempt to do something that no one needs.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-21-0.u24749	For the second time, you speak exactly the same content and thus violate the Rules of Procedure. Yeah. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) I am concluding a principled search (indemnity of MPs). Would you be quiet, please, what's with the excitement? Disdainful MPs. ) pursuant to Article 152, Article 3... (Mica Rogovic, from the post: You have registered speakers. Sir, do not shout, do not disturb the atmosphere in the congregation, I will tell you. Disdainful MPs. ) We move to the 22-24nd item of the agenda: – SUMMARY OF THE CONSERVATION OF THE CONTRIBUTIONS OF THE CONTRIBUTIONS OF SERBIA, THE EIB AND THE NATIONAL BANK 'APEX OF THE SERBIA AND THE SERVANT OF SERBIA ADE, THE VOJVODIAN BANK ADE AND PYRAES BANK AD BELEGRAD (common Single Search) pursuant to Article 152(2) and Article 142(2) of Article 2(2). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint single search on the draft law confirming the Financial Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank and the NBS "Apeks Loan for Small and Medium Enterprises" (Employees shouting out: aaaa). Now, just text me who's yelling, and I'll tell you when I'm done... Proposal for a law confirming the loan agreement (additional financing of the health project) between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the Bill on the Borrowing of the Republic of Serbia at the Alpha Bank of Serbia a.d., Vojvodjanska Banka a.d. Novi Sad and Piraeus Banka. Does the representative of the proposing Dr Diana Dragutinovic, the finance minister, want a word? The word is wanted by Mr. Milan Lapcevic, and before him was Mr. Shormaz. You want to go first?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-21-0.u24750	Madam Chairman, I have been an MP since 21 January 2001, as much as Mrs Gordana Komic, who is sitting next to you. (Mica Rogovic, from place: unfortunately. He can regret all he wants. I'll be longer than he can be. On the other hand, so far, as much as there has been a president of the National Assembly, and I have also been an MP in the assembly of the Assembly of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, the President of the Assembly, who is less concerned about the dignity of the National Assembly than you have experienced. You've broken Article 104 roughly tonight, not just tonight, but you've been doing it all along, the dignity of the National Assembly, here for a few days, because you're in a hurry to do something, even though you have time, even though no one is causing you any trouble, even though the opposition is taking part in the debate all the time. You take a man's time, and you see the stenographic notes yourself, or look at the stenographic notes you said: you told the man he had two and a half minutes. On the other hand, the minister grabs the bag and runs out running, doesn't give the final word and doesn't tell the MPs anything based on what they've been saying about him all day. What is this attitude toward the National Assembly? The president of the ZES parliamentary group comes out and doesn't let MP Munir Poturk speak, convinces him, who apparently felt injured, both as a MP and as a man, apparently something bothered him in his predecessor's speech. (President: Time. I'm done. He can't report as a member of the national minority, and that's what's being discussed here. Then what are we talking about here?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-21-0.u24751	Mr. Shormaz, there are two-and-a-half minutes left for the Prosperity Group. An authorised representative spoke for 20 minutes. (Dear Shormaz: There was a second conclusion. ) Please, I have gained insight, and the Vice-President and the MP himself have been made aware of the notes, i.e. you know that time was guided by Mr. Veljko Odalović, who is very experienced and certainly not mistaken. To eliminate any mistake, we've seen what the stenographic notes look like. So I really don't think it's appropriate after that. It's something else. You don't want us to move to this agenda point and there's actually a problem. We can agree on that, but if you're having a problem with us working to the end of this point, we can work out how long we're going to work, and that's no problem at all, if you're mentally tired, physically, etc. So that's what we can discuss, but you can't say we're breaking the Rules of Procedure. We're doing our best work. So it's not right. Mr. Munir Poturak answered his question. MEP Group For European Serbia - one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; SRS MP group - hour, seven minutes and 12 seconds; G17 Plus - 28 minutes and 48 seconds; DSS - Vojislav Kostunica's parliamentary group - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; the Parliamentary group "Forward Serbia" - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; the SPS - 18 minutes; the MEP group LDP - 14 minutes and 24 seconds; the Parliament group New Serbia - 10 minutes and 48 seconds; the Manjina Group - eight minutes and 24 seconds and the PUPS - six minutes. According to Article 93(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, an MP who is not a member of any parliamentary group, has the right to speak once to five minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-21-0.u24752	Dear Chairman, fellow MPs, I wanted to mention two things to my colleague, especially Martinovic of the SRS, who, speaking of the law... Please, I've been looking for a word in the Rules of Procedure about two things you've called me for. Mr. Shormaz called me directly and I think it's my turn to answer what he asked for. (Dear Shormaz, from the scene: the debate has already been concluded. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-21-0.u24753	I'll give you your time back to the beginning, you advertised the Rules of Procedure. Like all MPs, of course you have the right to explain the reasons for which you have reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-21-0.u24754	It's very clear to me, and I think everyone's intention is to end things useful both for us and for the citizens. And the laws that are here at the beginning, when we decided on 23 laws, we who have proposed to finish here by 1 August, to begin the works in this assembly. All, let me say, is focused in favour of both citizens and us here in Parliament. That's why I didn't want to react at the moment when our MPs were being thrown off guard here. Another thing, please, colleague Markicevic, if there is ever an opportunity to say something about the forum of MPs and how Novi Pazar is written in Bosnian or Serbian, and his President Mr Ilic and Markicevic himself were in Pazar, on the board of the municipality writes both with Cyrillic and Latin - Novi Pazar Municipality. It's both Bosnian and Serbian. That's enough. How to write – Novi Pazar or any other city in Serbia, has been regulated much earlier in this country, which we are proud of.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-21-0.u24755	Tomislav Nikolic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-21-0.u24756	I now inform you that I am asking you for an audio recording of the speech of Serbian Progressive Party representative Otto Kishmarton. We will include the stopwatch, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, he spoke about 13 minutes and minutes. You deceived us here and injured Article 105. Rules of Procedure. Please, we won't give up on that. You can act like a saint from now on, we'll never forgive you for this. For the sake of your comfort, in order to complete another bill tonight, to exhaust all MPs who want to speak here, to drive out the MPs of the opposition, to revolutionize them, to make them angry to leave the session so that you may finish it sooner, you here are harshly violating the Rules of Procedure. You convince us that the MP spoke for 20 minutes, and we looked at the clock and calculated how much longer he had to talk in the second run. Why do you do that? What do you need? A few days ago, we stayed in the O.R. to vote two more laws, they were really pointless laws, not to work another day longer. But you here by force, every day you look at the clock, when it's half six or twenty to six, you take off in the O.R. and you don't let anyone talk. The Minister of Human Rights doesn't say you've now denied him the right to speak. As he will defend me, he could not defend himself from you. He signed up to talk, you ignored him like he didn't exist. The Minister of Human Rights! Shame on him. He should resign now, because you denied him the right to speak here. Who does he take for protection? Members of the national minorities? You're just talking. What are you doing? What do you need? What Veliko? The Veljak that we trust? What does that mean you have to trust Veljak? I guess we trust the clock, not Veljak. It's not a big watch. Please, you've made a scandal. I insist we get the tape and turn on the stopwatch to see how much he spoke.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-21-0.u24757	Time, Mr. Nikolic. Of course I'll consider your proposal. If it is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, it will be realised. Therefore, your proposal is absolutely accepted. It is not about any Veljak, it is about the secretary of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, who has been leading the time and whose obligation it is to do so correctly. So in this sense it is said – Mr. Veljko Odalovic, Secretary of the Assembly. Mr. Miroslav Markicevic, deputy head of the New Serbia parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-21-0.u24758	Mr. President, if your dignity, the presidency allows, I'd like to replicate Mr. Poturk, if I have the right, since he mentioned me. Mr. Poturak, to what you said a few minutes ago, I have to make a statement next. The truth is, I've been to New Market many times, and I love going to that town and loving people who live in New Market. It is true that all the tables are in Cyrillic and Latin, and it is true that all the people, whether the Serbs, whether Bosniaks, speak the same language, even some speak the Ekvah, and some of you, even some of you here, speak the MPs. Of course it makes me happy and I like it. If anyone wants to call language different, I don't mind, which I voted for. The law was passed by the government of Dr Vojislav Kostunica and the flag and everything. You didn't understand what I was going to say. It's not clear to me that someone's been looking where you were present and I don't know who else can be bilingual. I found myself injured, as the man who voted for that law and who saw what you confirmed, with his own eyes, that these tables existed. Now in such a way to insist on the Bosnian language, who doesn't know, who looks at us all together here, you and we, if you think that they think of us as national, they look at us as geographical space, and it turns out that some rights are really compromised, although on these rights for all people, even for national minorities, should work. That's why I asked in which language, since someone asked to put it, and that's already there, as said in the Bosnian language of Novi Pazar? In that sense, I said, nothing else. You didn't understand.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-21-0.u24759	The word is Zoran Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-21-0.u24760	Article 104, dignity of the Assembly. So you've broken the Rules of Procedure again, and therefore the dignity of the Assembly, and I'll tell you why. So, Mr. Munir Poturak reported to the Rules of Procedure, and you just opened the agenda. So it's very interesting and it's very unusual when someone calls in the Rules of Procedure when the agenda is just opening. What can the MP object to, to which procedure, to which is the violation of the Rules of Procedure when the agenda is opened and when no other registered speaker has answered the word and has not begun to speak? Mr. Poturak answered the word and replicated in fact what the MPs were saying at the previous item of the agenda. Now explain to me where logic is. Mr. Poturak, you have a problem. You've been defending yourself for three minutes to speak, until six o'clock to answer, and then you've allowed yourself, and you've probably had a guilty conscience, and it's a bit of an awkward situation when someone orders you not to speak, it's embarrassing, and then probably because your conscience bit you, you decided to try a little bit, so you can report by breaking the Rules of Procedure. As president, you had to give him a warning. What does he have to replicate? He didn't say which member was broken, at least I didn't hear. You gave him over two minutes to speak, to replicate the MP Markicevic, or head of the NS Group, and for you it is not a violation of the Rules of Procedure. And here, when anyone creatively interprets the Rules of Procedure, you see how you can interpret. I give you one piece of advice, you're a very good chairman when you're chairing alone. Don't let Mrs. Gordana Comic sufflage you, give you advice and bring down the Assembly here, because there are always conflicts when she soufflifies you and tells you what to do. Be your own and chair as president of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-21-0.u24761	There's no breach of the Rules of Procedure. When I give my word, when someone advertises the Rules of Procedure, I don't know what he'll say. And you know it's common that when someone doesn't call on an appropriate member, I just warn him and I don't give him a sentence, a warning, or Mr. Poturk, or anyone else, or you. Of course, if I don't get out of anybody's head, I run the Assembly the way the Rules of Procedure says I should and don't insult me. You insult me by constantly telling me to get out of someone's head. You know, it offends the dignity of a man. Mr. Milan Lapčević.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-21-0.u24762	Dear President, I'm advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Art. 100, 104 and 27. Mr. Dragan Shormaz asked for a word at five to six. Mr. Minister asked for a word to give the final word after the debate in principle. Mr. Otto Kishmarton also asked for a word because he had two minutes, or as authorized much more. You didn't give them your word. It's the first breach of the Rules of Procedure. Since you've been chairing this assembly, we've had that black hole, it's been voted out of this assembly with no MP cards. By doing business, you have abolished every possibility of thinking and creative reporting in this congregation. Make this congregation a herd that doesn't think for itself, so anyone who says anything that you don't like sanction. You're setting up your deputy that whenever it takes something violent to choke here that she's running the assembly. Today you have gone so far as to force you to move on to point two by denying the time of the parliamentary group to use it as prescribed by the Rules of Procedure. Even Tur de France is more important than the National Assembly. The other day we heard from a lady who ran the European Office for EU Association that the Assembly is champion in EU accession by adopting a large number of laws. What are those laws worth to us? So why don't you cancel the assembly, and vote it all out in the government and finish the story. You're trying to force things through here. (President: Time. It's been two minutes, Mr. Lapchev. I'm done. Madam President, you're a university professor. You should take care of your personality, especially the dignity of this congregation. It doesn't work with your personality, your teacher's personality, to behave like this.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-21-0.u24763	I don't think there's any damage to the Rules of Procedure. I think I've really acted in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. In case you're not satisfied, I've already given the answer to all your findings, I can only say once again that when Mr. Kishmarton was up, there are two and a half minutes left on the list. I called him and asked him if he wanted to talk, he said no. I thanked you and moved on. I had ahead of me the timing and records, the Progressive Group of Members of Serbia had little time left within the time foreseen for a representative, i.e. the president of the parliamentary group. So I've already explained it on several occasions, and after that we've checked it with insight into the notes. Time also coincides with what was written on the paper about the time it was conducted. So I had no other option but to act on this file. In case there is a mistake, there is no way to rule it out, I have followed the proposal of the head of the parliamentary group, Mr Nikolic, to see the video and measure the time. I'll be fully prepared to apologize on behalf of the chairman if there's been a mistake. I really don't have anything to do with it right now. Please, as colleagues, we understand, to continue our work, there are very important laws and we will surely bring them, and we will continue to socialise for a long time how long this mandate is going on. Mr. Lapchevic, you've reached out again. Mr Tomislav Nikolic first.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-21-0.u24764	You have now injured Article 104 - dignity of the National Assembly. You said that by looking at the stenographic notes, you determined how long Mr. Kishmarton spoke, or I didn't understand you correctly, that it was another proof that he used the time. You don't have that other evidence in your notes. Don't deceive us. The notes don't take as much time as anyone has spoken, but as many minutes as the stenographer wrote. So, please, take responsibility. I'll apologize to you tomorrow. Let it be a sanction for us, if I'm wrong. But you can't just go through with an apology and make a mockery of this congregation. If it proves that I'm right, I trust the people who sat here and looked at the clock when Mr. Kishmarton spoke and took the time to speak again, then the least you can do is thank you for your trust and leave it to someone else. This doesn't make any sense anymore. This doesn't make any sense anymore what you're doing. You're all being rejected as if it were a wall. You no longer accept any remarks. You're not the woman who was elected president. You've changed completely.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-21-0.u24765	Mr. Nikolic, I'm sorry I don't satisfy your taste of how the president should function. On one occasion I've already told you -- that you've been a longer president, it's very likely that I would learn something from you and that I might behave differently, but it took a very short time. Mr. Dragan Shormaz has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-21-0.u24766	I'll tell the members of the Rules of Procedure that I don't go any worse than Mr. Poturk, who didn't get a warning, even though he didn't say a member. Now, in my belief, if I were him, I'd feel offended, offended by the president of the ruling party's parliamentary group. All the time members 100, 104, 27; 27 tops. Here's what we finally got. What is the greatest sadness in all of this for the National Assembly? The more important it is to RTS Tur de France, the Spanish series, and you'll let us go after 12, as you say, footage of the talks on very important laws. They'll be watching us, who? Vampires perhaps in Serbia? There was a debate Saturday about laws in the field of education. Tonight there were footage of health care laws. And that's the way to the EU? At night? So no one can see? No one notices we're in debt? They notice citizens, they know, and it'll take a lot shorter than what you said, much shorter than the whole term. Fall, this is where you end up. The Minister knows that, too, when she has to come in with rebalancing. What black end of the term? You'll have to go out on the street after that, and you'll have to go to college, and look at what you're doing at the National Assembly. What I'm telling you, however you understand it, this is well-intentioned. Try to understand that the National Assembly is the National Assembly and do not treat it that way. At midnight, the citizens will be able to see about borrowing at midnight.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-21-0.u24767	I thank you for your well-meaning. There's no breach of the Rules of Procedure. Mr Milan Lapčević, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-21-0.u24768	You have not answered me, in accordance with Article 100, why did you not give your word to that MP who asked him to speak of him at five to six, because it is the obligation of the Rules of Procedure to give him your word immediately after the presentation of the previous speaker. You also asked the minister if he wanted to speak.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-21-0.u24769	Mr. Lapchevic, you can't ask the same question again. If I'm not clear, I'll tell you all the answers. I know what you asked me last time, there's no need again. So, Mr. Minister has defined that when we discuss the amendment, then take part in the debate and then comment on the amendments and today's work, what he thinks we should, he told me. He did it before either of you advertised a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Like all MPs, I have the right to speak, and when I'm done, then I give my word. I started opening a session at a time when someone answered, and I opened it, and as soon as I opened it, I gave the word to the MP who advertised the breach of the Rules of Procedure. It was really like that. Thank you. If you are not satisfied, in the day of the vote, would you like to make a statement to the Assembly?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-21-0.u24770	Can I finish what I started?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-21-0.u24771	You can't finish, because you're saying what you said before, and you don't have the right to do it, or I'd be obliged to give you a warning right now.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-21-0.u24772	You don't have the right to interrupt me when I haven't finished my statement.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-21-0.u24773	You don't have a word. The word has Mrs. Minister Diana Dragutinovic. Here you go, Mrs. Dragutinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-21-0.u24774	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, you have three draft laws: a bill on the confirmation of a financial agreement between the Republic of Serbia, the European Investment Bank and the National Bank of Serbia, an Apeks loan for small and medium-sized enterprises, a bill on the validation of the Loan Agreement, additional financing of health projects between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development and a bill on the borrowing of the Republic of Serbia to the "Alpha Bank of Serbia", the Vojvodjanska Banka AD Novi Sad and Pireus Banka AD Belgrade. The financial agreement between the Republic of Serbia, the European Investment Bank and the National Bank of Serbia was concluded in Belgrade on 11 May 2009. It's about what happened. Apeks loan for small and medium-sized enterprises, and to remind you, this is not the first loan the European Investment Bank gives to the Republic of Serbia: on 16 July 2002 the first Apeks loan was granted and it amounted to 20m euros, largely used; on 11 June 2004, the second Apeks loan was granted for small and medium-sized enterprises, 45m euros and was fully used. No financial impact on the Republic of Serbia's budget was due to the use of these two loans. The new Apeks loan 3 is 250m euros and is intended roughly for two user groups. The first group of users are small and medium-sized enterprises, and the second group of users are infrastructure projects at local level. As much as 70% of this loan is intended for small and medium-sized enterprises, entrepreneurs, under the term "small and medium" means legal actors with less than 250 employees. Otherwise, when the European Investment Bank approves these loans, it usually subsidises projects, the part is provided by banks, part of the European Investment Bank's loan. In this case and in the case of this loan, in response to the global financial crisis, the European Investment Bank has deviated from its practice. She's funding with 100%, so project in general. What are the financial terms of the loan? It's about long-term assets where the repayment deadline depends on the purpose of the loan. There are roughly three types of intentions – to buy equipment, to finance small and medium-sized enterprises, to finance infrastructure projects at local level, so that the period of repayment depends on the purpose and moves between 7 and 15 years, and the period of rest between two and five years. The withdrawal period: the loan is withdrawn in a maximum of 50 tranches; the minimum amount of the tranche is five million, five times 50 – 250. The terms under which this loan is granted, so it's a very favourable loan, it's a six-month jumbo, plus a minus a certain range, at this point that's minus, the access fee is not paid. Like I said, two loans have already been granted. The financial consequences of the Republic of Serbia's budget were gone, so will this. The next draft law is the Law on Confirmation of the Loan Agreement, additional financing of health projects between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. It's a loan that gets healthcare under very favourable IDA conditions. I would like to remind again that this is not about the first IDA health loan, that there was also the first IDA credit, and that this first IDA credit was granted, I think, in 2003, that it was about 15 million special rights of withdrawal, which is about 16m euros. This project has contributed to the achievement of the following objectives in healthcare – establishing standards for planning in the system of providing health care, the rehabilitation of four hospitals in the Kingdom, Valjeva, Vranja and Zrenjina, the improvement of the institutional and personnel capacities of the Ministry of Health and the Republic Health Insurance, the establishment of a licensing body for healthcare professionals and bodies for the accreditation of persons and institutions providing health services and the introduction and development of the information system in health institutions. During the implementation of the project, there was a need to provide additional funds and thus came to form a new loan agreement, signed on 14 April 2009, amounting to 10 and a half million dinars. The funds of this loan, under the most favourable conditions, under the IDA conditions, will be used to connect about 400 health institutions, information connection, to increase the capacity of health institutions, to monitor, evaluate and better define diagnostic groups, to set up a performance analysis department within the Republic Health Insurance Institute, to continue the process of accreditation of persons and institutions providing health services and to establish criteria for assessing the impact of persons performing the tasks of management and organisation of work in health institutions. I would like to remind you that the interest rate of six months is increased by a variable interest margin, which can be plus or minus, at this point is minus 0.05. Access fee is only 0.25%. Loan period 17 years, including five years of rest. The third bill in front of you is the law on the borrowing of the Republic of Serbia to Alpha Bank Serbia, A.D., "Vojvodjanska Banka" Novi Sad and "Pireus Banka". Already adopting the 2009 budget, as well as the budget rebalance, it is assumed that the Republic of Serbia, as well as the entire consolidated state, will meet the deficit and that part of the deficit, as well as the refinancing of existing commitments, will also be covered by borrowing, i.e. from credit. The Republic of Serbia, in order to secure daily liquidity, will be charged with a total of 90m euros to finance the budget deficit. It's about what happened. A long-term loan from the Alpha Bank, 30m euros, from the Vojvodjanska Banka, 20m euros and from the Piraeus Bank, 40m euros. What are the conditions under which the Republic of Serbia's budget is in charge of financing its regular commitments? It's a long-term loan, five years, a year's rest, the interest rate is equal to the sum of one month's reference interest rates, the jumbo, and the fixed interest margins of 4.75. The cost of processing and releasing loans into the course is 1% of the amount of credit, a 60-month period of repayment, including a 12-month standstill period, is a half-year payment. The borrower, therefore the budget of the Republic of Serbia, can return this loan prematurely at any time. These are very important laws, first of all, the Apex loan provides an inflow of capital just as capital is rare. They also provide normal functioning of the state without jeopardising the level of rights, wages, pensions and social benefits, as well as priority investment infrastructure projects. So I ask the MPs to vote for these laws in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-21-0.u24775	Thank you, Madam Minister. Allow me to inform you that the parliamentary groups have authorised them to be represented by MP Milan Nikolic, the SPS-JS parliamentary group, MP Milos Radulovic, the DSS-Vojislav Kostunica parliamentary group, Mrs Jorvanka Tabakovic, the NS parliamentary group, Dejan Mirovic, the SRS parliamentary group. Do the rapporteurs of the Legislative Committee, Mr Vlatko Ratkovic, and the Finance Committee, Mrs Branko Ljiljak, want a word? No, I don't. Do representatives or presidents of parliamentary groups want a word? Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-21-0.u24776	On behalf of the Prosperity Club, Serbia is authorized to talk about the usual points of the agenda, which can be called responsibilities in one word. It would be my special pleasure, Madam President, to show you that I am extremely prepared for this point and I can talk about it tonight, and I could also talk about tomorrow, that you have appreciated the time this parliamentary group had to talk about on the previous agenda, but it will be subject to some other debate. On the first occasion, I chose to talk about the loan that the Republic of Serbia is taking, as stated in the agenda, to cover the budget deficit of "Alpha Bank", "Vojvodjanska Banka" and "Pireus Banka" Belgrade. First of all, Madam Minister, I would like to ask the question – since 3 April, since the government's decision on this was made, until 10 July, when you provided us with the principle of withdrawing the previous agenda by emergency procedure, which is your authority, and supplementing point 24, there has been a difference in the purpose of a 90 million loan? I ask this question for reasons that are narrowed down to information on the need for borrowing because, as you have provided, the government said on 3 April the government accepted information on the need for borrowing of the Republic of Serbia to finance the budget deficit and to refinance the debt of the Republic of Serbia. No matter how many times you've listed the procedure and all the actions related to this loan, you haven't stated for a moment that it's just a budget deficit, it's also a debt refinancing. Since money is not intended for any other purpose, but for those mentioned here, I have also sent the amendment on behalf of the parliamentary group where I ask that what you state in the explanation be given in the basis of this law. I want to ask one more question - so much borrowing with international institutions, but the principle of precision of defining the obligations of one who seeks credit and one who gives credit in this decision that you have delivered to us does not exist. So here, citizens of Serbia, no matter how many hours they look at this, I think in this agenda the most important content, means a 90m-euro loan will be taken for a budget deficit under the following conditions. The interest rate is equal to the sum of one month's reference interest rates for debt in euro, eurosibor, and fixed interest margins. The payment period is 60 months, it starts 12 months, and the payment of the war is six months. Does that mean, so you don't think it should have been written, that interest is paid six months? I can't see it from this proposal, but what I'm afraid of is that you're going to have one month's reference interest rate as an account and that the banks you're taking credit from will have the right to attribute one month's bill to that sixth month's and to make interest on interest, because that's, in nature, the way the banks work, which will cost the loans we take. I would not be a member of Parliament's Forward Serbia if we had a proposed solution for this dilemma. This is the solution to add a point 2) to this article and that, at a one-month level, a certain amount of interest is calculated and paid, given that the inflows to the budget, from which this credit will be returned and paid, are also full at the monthly level of some of the obligations that citizens and businesses have towards the budget. What I could not figure out from the reasons you provided us is whether only these three banks submitted their proposals for a loan, because it is said that during the public procurement procedure it was found that the tomorrows of the business banks participating in the procedure submitted the same offer as the most favourable one. If three banks have filed, does that mean they're only three, and if they're identical, how could she be the most favourable? So precision, so that I could, not because I don't understand it, but because it's not clearly written how many banks competed or submitted bids, so we can see if this definition was done the way you defined us here. So, the state of Serbia is doing well for its budget deficit for citizens and businesses in the credit market, instead of borrowing citizens, instead of borrowing the economy, the state is in debt. This, on the one hand, as an increased demand for loans, is a sustainable high interest price, because we know the basic setting of demand, and demand is growing, the price of some goods is being maintained at an existing level, so I would not say that this way of covering budget costs is something that you can be proud of neither of you, nor of us to justify, nor of the citizens can be satisfied with. Above all, I ask that you do not take what I say personally, because in the adopted law on the budgetary system you are the minister who is responsible for the implementation of the budget and only in you is the personified procedure of responsibilities, i.e. the defence of this law before the MPs, but at least I personally consider you responsible for this and this kind of budget deficit that must be covered by the lending of commercial banks. Madam Minister, do you think our country really is such an unsolicited user of credit, that it had to pay so expensive an access fee? At the same time we get a loan from abroad, you've been talking about it for a little while, the access fee is 0.25%, and our credit rating isn't high, the political risk is high, the risks of investment are also high in our country, the conditions of investment aren't very great, especially because of the insecure regulation, because here, day and night we're working, and don't worry about our psychic or physical health, or the mood, Madam President, we're doing great, we're supporting, the increased tone is a reflection of the temperament and energy that we're focusing on this, and in no way is anger, anger or anxiety. So we support this kind of regulation and in this kind of dynamic, we realize how you impose tasks on us, but we really don't think it's right for these big things to go through without public disapproval and surprise, and I'm confident that, with the information that I'm going to bring forward, I'm really going to face the inconceivable responsibility of the government on these borrowings. It will be most interesting that, as one of the business banks from which the Government of the Republic of Serbia takes credit, an "Alpha Bank" appears, where one company which is not public, is founded as a stock company with unlimited liability, and is doing a monopoly business called flight control, huge revenues are created, illegally registered and illegally held with the "Alpha Bank" where we take credit. But let's take the turn. We're covering the budget deficit. What's the budget deficit? The difference between reduced income and the same expenditure to be financed, in order, rather than by increasing public debt and borrowing from abroad or in the country. At every session, from now on, I will repeat the word that borrowing is only acceptable to every country, especially us. At each of the next sessions, I will not miss without mentioning that we should only attract productive investments, not investment in acquisitions, buying, in privatisation actions, but primarily attract productive investments and therefore stable regulations and expected conditions should be what we all fight for together, we as a legislative body, you as an executive body. We all know that the increase in deficits does not solve the key problem, but the public debt is increasing. In the Memorandum, the government explicitly stated that there are two options that this deficit can be reduced, i.e. how can we, on the one hand, increase budget revenues, someone suggested an increase in VAT, and some braver and more selfishly I say, and those who know less about the economy, have proposed a reduction in profits. The governor got ahead of the profit cut. We know that the reduction in wages is a reduction in demand and that it can reduce the salary of one who gives part of the salary to luxury, and one who buys food from the salary, what else does it reduce? As Government, you did not specify other options in this document, but the governor explicitly proposed savings in pensions, education, health care and other public sectors. I wish he'd considered under education services savings for the abuse of public procurement institutes. No, they mostly mean a reduction in the number of employees and salaries. He's just worried about whether the savings effect, due to the reduction in the deficit that we're taking credit, will have an effect in six or 12 months. But you know perfectly well, like me and all the citizens addressed, that no country in this crisis dares to take steps that affect reduced demand. It is only the governor's suggestion, because if every month that we continue in this macroeconomic environment significantly increases public debt, and only at this session is the 250m-euro Apeks, guaranteed by the National Bank as an agent, which otherwise has nothing to do with the government when its salary is cut, the governor will sue at the Constitutional Court. Over 10 million is a project for health care, borrowing, and 90m euros to cover the deficit, projects I'm only talking about at this session. This constant increase in public debt, which appears as the difference between unlimited expenditures, for which you are not the finance minister first, not the only one, is a lot of other culprits, asking to increase in this way. Does one of you ask a question - is it important just to talk about the size of the deficit or are we going to talk about the structure of that deficit? They know perfectly well that all citizens are the most important structure of this deficit, because that deficit in the budget is due to some huge investment that will bring us productive foreign investment and that the deficit in the budget is the result of some infrastructure project that we are building, no one would ask a question. But this deficit is the result of consumption and non-rejection from the many privileges found, not only of the ministers, but also of all the authorities of the administration, the authorities of the regulatory bodies, the agencies and I don't know which forms have not been established, to flight control and flight control agencies, which are in a strange way registered and established, and only at the last meeting in these 24 new laws do we have new social housing administrations, new agencies, management funds, because they are consumers and the naked spending we are in debt for. We're in debt in a way that doubles itself and future generations get us into a living mud that's gonna be hard to get us out of. The current deficit is the result of consumption. There's no future income. Borrowing foreign and domestic loans is again a reservation for the return of war and interest, i.e. the cost of these loans. What's the alternative? There is. I'll only give you three tonight. The state did not have to be in debt with 90 million that it only took advantage of the possibilities to reroute revenue from the National Bank from issuing documents, ID cards and passports, and to collect the public revenues it collects on its behalf, and without its knowledge is spent by the Aviation Control Agency and the Civil Aviation Directorate. I'll start with my I.D. The collection of forms for ID cards and passports is a very generous potential for the source of income for our fallen budget. I believe that a large number of citizens do not know that the price of the law determines the MUP for the collection of documents, but that these costs are charged by the NBS. Perhaps this is one of the reasons why Mladjan Dinkic is in a hurry to shut down "Kurir", because in that list alone, we could read an affair about the illegal allocation of passports, which here are the subject of an alternative of money that could go into the budget and not go. The ID form costs 913 dinars and this is paid directly to the NBS. The price of this pattern is extremely problematic, as scientists in this matter say that the direct costs of this pattern do not cost more than 20% of the price of 913 dinars. Only if you know it's about 7 million pieces of replacement forms in a few years, ID cards, it's obvious that it's a figure of close to 70m euros. Yeah, yeah, big and inexorable numbers. In one form, there are 913 dinars. It is clear that printing and the way it is now done and charged these forms goes to the most extent out of the country. There's no record of that, but I'd like to ask the M.O.P. to get this job done and check the prices on the way. A passport form, for example, costs 2,000 dinars. There are two million pieces to replace by estimate, and so far about 750,000, a source from the MUP, has already been replaced. The price is real hard to accept, so someone fat makes money, the people would say. When you know, let's say, for over 4,000 dinars, you can buy a smaller television set, and that's with a paid trade margin, VAT, customs, transportation and other dependent costs, you can compare whether that document can cost that much. Instead of sending money that I told you is only for ID cards in a couple of years about 70m euros, imagine how much it could go into the budget. Imagine an even scarier fact that someone who receives a salary of 100 euros and has a full-time child who can't send to high school without a ID card should pay close to 2,000 dinars for the issue of a ID card, if he still pays for a birth and citizenship form, you see how much that means. I'll continue in the discussion.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-21-0.u24777	You spoke for 19 minutes and 25 seconds. Mr Milan Nikolic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-21-0.u24778	The Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we are discussing very important economic laws. Because of the weather, I don't want to repeat them. It is a loan for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises of 250 million, or 70% of that amount for small and medium-sized enterprises, for the further development of health care, alongside centres in Vranj, Zrenjanin, Kralje and Valjev, and for covering the budget deficit. The SPS and JS, despite different tones, will vote for all three laws and we particularly welcome the annex on the development of small business first. I have in front of me the book "Little Enterprises A Great Chance" written by a prominent businessman, Mr. Tomic, back in 1994. Had there been hearing from the then macroeconomically responsible people and the government of the Republic of Serbia, the country's economic problems would probably have been different today in 2009 than they are now. I wish instead of these 250 million under these conditions, such as the length of the return, the duration of the grace period and the amount of interest, these funds were several times higher, because the structure of our economy compared to the structure of the economy in the environment is very unfavourable. Small companies in Japan, Korea, Germany, Italy, etc. It's moving between 95% and 98%. We barely reach 60% now, and the number of employees in these small businesses is somewhere above 60%. Thousands of products and in such a fragile Serbian economy are importing and giving away the resources we lack, instead of hiring our people and at the same time providing profits and necessary repromation for that production that works. As a result, I think that, in addition to the government's commitment to go into the development of this small business, as they call it, a deeper, stronger and more organised national strategy should be made to increase the number of small enterprises, so that market surpluses – primarily in agriculture, which disappear in fields, in fruits, vegetables, and other cereals – can be processed, processed, sold, exported and a large number of unemployed workers are employed on this plan. At the same time, the development of small businesses is very insecure unless they connect to large systems. So connecting small businesses with large systems that directly, without processing the marketing market and many other details, work for large and ensure that they can survive the first year of birth, two or three, and this particular grace period allows them to become economically strong and to make payments on the loans they will take. In this direction and in this way should continue to provide capital and development of small businesses, and entrepreneurs, not through various agencies, etc., educate through the chamber system and through establishing links with large systems and allow this country to be in line with the medium-developed countries precisely through these small enterprises. I have to say, the world's largest economies have just based their development on small businesses. As for this second ten-and-a-half-million-dollar loan, I think the job that started was good. Information technology in health care is very necessary. The conditions under which this loan is secured are favourable. Regardless of the problems we're in, I think it's a good thing that this job is done. As for covering the deficits in the budget, and probably there are different forms, the government's definition of overcoming the problems is, above all, the economic crisis, that we have this grace period of a year and a five-year return. I think that is also one way and better than not to pay personal incomes to many budget users and from which we can have greater consequences than the way the government is now defining. I repeat, borrowing is dangerous. It should be very careful, but if borrowing for production purposes, if borrowing in the development of small businesses, if borrowing in infrastructure works, is a waste of our devil's money if there's no way to get to it, then I think it's okay, especially if we're using the kind of funds we have right now. Once again, the SPS-JS in today's vote will support these three legislative projects.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-21-0.u24779	The word is made by MP Milos Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-21-0.u24780	Madam President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of Serbia, above all, the DSS parliamentary group has major objections in the way you ended the session in which a very important topic was discussed. And just the run of Mr. Chiplic, who ran out of the O.R., Mrs. Minister Dragutinovic ran into the O.R., all breathy, to start a session before 6:00 p.m., shows what kind of mental set you essentially have. I'm just wondering how you run for money? What concerns us all here is the relationship between you, the ruling majority, and the citizens of Serbia. You're bringing all of Serbia into the media darkness, so it doesn't know what's going on here in the Assembly, feel free and turn off this light, because it's inappropriate what you're doing. You guarantee the public in the information, guarantee the public during the session, but it is obvious that either Armstrong or Kontador, the participants of the Tur de France race, Serbs, are asking it as a question, or a team from Serbia is taking part in the Tour de France. As far as I know, no Serb participates in the Tur de France race, but you are not interested in it. You, Mrs. Dejanovic, have allowed the direct transmission of Tur de France, then volleyball, then "Flamingosa", all on the burden of Serbian citizens, who regularly settle their obligations for a TV subscription to the National Service. That really doesn't make sense. Good morning, ma'am, Minister. I'm forced to say so, because what I'm saying right now is probably going to go somewhere at three or four in the morning. I'm glad it is, because I still believe that those poor farmers who get up early drinking coffee will be able to look and hear what we're talking about here. You, Madam Minister here said the loans we're talking about are extremely favourable. You, in what state you are, all credits are favourable to you. In order to remain in power, you take loans at the cost of everything and everything, you are in debt, and a good saying is with us in the people - the hosts of the balance and rarely repay themselves. We have a set here of three loans. The first loan concerns a law establishing a financial contract between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank and the National Bank of Serbia, Apeks loan for small and medium-sized enterprises worth 250m euros. It is for projects to finance small and medium-sized enterprises, at a minimum amount of 80% of the loan, with a 12-year repayment period, including a four-year period. For the purchase of equipment on the lease, I'm underlining it as it's probably from some already specified supplier, with a repayment period of up to seven years, including a period of two years. For the financing of infrastructure projects, implemented by local self-government, for the purchase of immovable property and re-leasing, the repayment deadline is 15 years, including a five-year period. But what concerns me, that's exactly what Mr. Petkovic said a few days ago here about a memo sent from central to all DS committees in Serbia -- to urgently do and deliver certain projects to the central, to apply for these funds. You also did this in 2001 and 2002, when you had the "Serbia on the Right Way" campaign, because at the time, you were only giving credit for brotherly and party belongings, not for what is primarily the citizens' interest. Another loan is a loan agreement, additional financing of a health project between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, amounting to 10.5m euros, for the provision of goods, consulting services and training necessary for the development of information technology for integrated health management. This loan primarily refers to having better insight into compliance with the obligations of healthcare users. Serbia and Serbia's healthcare, Madam Minister, above all, needs modern equipment to treat patients and humane conditions for their accommodation, and only then information technology related to their records and payment of health services. Nowhere here in this loan agreement did I find that the health facilities you listed were listed - I found neither Vranje nor Valjevo nor the King. It's mentioned, they're not in the contract, perhaps with some annex, but the annex isn't here with this proposal for a loan law. The third loan on debt to the Alpha Bank amounting to 30,000,000 euros, debt to the Vojvodjanska Banka amounting to 20,000,000 euros and debt to the Pireus Bank of 40,000,000 euros, all in all, for charging, or for reducing the budget deficit, amounts to 90,000,000 euros. The total amount of all these loans we are discussing today is 360.5m euros. Madam Minister, in the last month and a half, we've been in charge here of 968m euros -- 170,000,000 for roads, plus 60,000,000, 388,000,000 for Corridor 10 and plus these 360.5m euros, and the question is what will wait for us when we get back from our vacation, if we have it at all, because you're going to sit down day and night, or they last until morning. We're probably gonna have another session, because you're gonna need more money - to get us here and consider an emergency procedure. I suppose the next tranche will be a billion euros, and perhaps two, as my colleague Obradovic says. However, what Madam Minister is worrying us all, and the DSS MPs have been doing this since we talked about the budget system distracting you, it is precisely what you are primarily incompetent, because you do not respect deadlines. Budget for 2009, I'll remind you, you were obliged to deliver it to us on November 1, and you only delivered it on December 8th to adopt it on the last day of December 2008. The final bill, the law says on the 1st of July of next year, and you only delivered it 6th of July. The audits are gone, and you're not ready to engage in the audit, so we know exactly where you spent your money and what you were doing. The memorandum should monitor every budget rebalancing, as well as the adoption of the budget -- it was gone and we fear at all whether you have a strategy and whether you know what you are doing. You're incompetent. We warned you in October of the economic crisis, the decline in production, the growth of course, internal liquidity, pressure on foreign exchanges, we proposed a deposit law to increase the guaranteed deposit to 20,000 euros. Your esteemed expert, State Secretary, Mr. Ilic, and you have more of those state secretaries who do not show their ability with their work, because you probably choose them by party membership or I don't know, which they may be nice to you, he said then - that we are spreading defetism and spreading panic among Serbian citizens. The result of such an untimely reaction was that more than a billion euros in foreign exchange savings were withdrawn from banks and the banking system is suffering today. You're incapacitated because you did an unrealistic budget assessment -- in October there was six percent of GDP growth, when we adopted the budget in December you projected 3.5% of GDP growth, when we rebalancing in April you said you expected to be at the level of last year's GDP growth. We also expect new budget rebalancing, probably in September or October. I'm afraid Harry Potter won't be able to do anything, so we'll have to come here on August 15th to adopt budget rebalances. You designed the budget deficit for the first time was 40 billion, so 70 billion rebalancing, and now economic experts say -- the budget deficit will be around 140 billion dinars. These are the figures that are scary and worrying for all citizens of Serbia. With loans, you won't be able to cover it. Make up some new chemistry to end it all. Madam Minister, as incompetent as the government is, that's what experts say. They say you don't have any vision. I will give just one example, one statement by a minister, who needs to know what the situation in trade is, especially what we are talking about here about small and medium-sized enterprises and trade operations, which are essentially supposed to be the most vital part of Serbia's economy and, besides agriculture, base on the improvement for citizens and the country's more stable economic system. On July 19th, Mr Milosavljevic said in "The Evening News" that there are 105,000 trade shops in Serbia. According to official data, the "Pres" of July 13th came out -- that there are 15,419 trade shops in Serbia's territory. So, Mr. Secretary missed 90,000 stores. Is that what he's talking about? Otherwise, let me remind you, for the first six months, 1,414 stores have been shut down, that's well known to you. I repeat, it is the most vital part of the Serbian economy. As a result, the fall in purchasing power, the dominant position of the monopolies, the misunderstanding of obligations towards suppliers, with payments currencies of over 200 days. The young must pay large, or monopolies, either in advance or within seven days. Monopolies, and you've done nothing so far to break up those monopolies, pay 200 days later. The result is expensive loans, interest rates that go up to 30%. Banks and monopolies are the biggest profits. The banks, as you know, had 34 billion dinars last year, with 32,000 employees, and the economy had 47 billion losses, with a million and eight hundred thousand employees. The result is a 18.1% drop in production, a 24% drop in exports, a 27% drop in imports. Of the 112,000 companies, over 60,000 are in a blockade. For some 200,000 workers, they don't receive salaries, employers don't pay contributions, and you promised 200,000 new jobs. 30,000 companies have been shut down, 60,000 people are out of work, and these are the facts you're hiding from the public, and probably because of that, there's no direct transmission. About pensions and salaries so we don't talk. It is estimated that those who are alive, and the question is who will survive all of this, only in 2011 will we feel some improvement and that only in 2011 will wages and pensions be increased. The external debt of businesses and the state was 21.4 billion euros in late March. There's also a debt of economic operators and states, but we can't separate economic operators from the state. It's a system of connected courts. So, if they're not doing well, there's no budgeting. To be clear, that's why you took loans from the IMF, to reduce the pressure on foreign exchange reserves, to enable monopolies and businessmen who have obligations abroad to settle obligations, because you had a terrible jump and thus stopped the drop in exchange rate from 75 to 95. Businesses are making 4.5 billion commitments this year. How are you going to settle that? The estimated foreign debt will reach 27 billion or 90% of GDP by the end of the year. We often see, so we say that we belong to a number of less in charge countries. But there's one difference between Japan, which has so much foreign debt, because it produces and exports, and the Americans, who have always had a huge foreign debt, but they balanced it by export. But I don't see what we're going to export. You destroyed agriculture, you destroyed small and medium-sized enterprises, you destroyed trade, everything that could have been done, you destroyed and you're making virtual Serbia do something, and they're doing nothing. Inflation is 9% for the first six months. You've allowed those prices that are controlled to rise by 14%, which are directly controlled by the state, to mean utility services. In the end, Mrs Dragutinović, let me ask you, what are we going to do today and what are we going to do tomorrow? What are your children, the children of all these people sitting here in the congregation thinking well of this country? We've obviously divided into those who think well and those who think ill. I think it's best that you and the government resign today, and tomorrow you already have an election to win those who go out with Serbia's recovery programme, because you don't have one, and that's the opinion of the entire professional public. For Serbian citizens, in the end, it is best to leave as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-21-0.u24781	The word is Mr. Velimir Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-21-0.u24782	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am ashamed to come down to the O.R. these days. And here, I abstained from coming down, but now it's over, and I came down, to just tell you in your face, Mrs. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, it would be your turn to listen, but I can't understand that so much someone defiles an institution like the Serbian Parliament. I can't understand this circus that's going on these days, this running and running of ministers, chasing. Yesterday, you threw that poor Dwarf out like a rag. He was trying to say something, so he didn't know where he was going, so he folded his hands, and he bended. You've seen this unfortunate man now folding his purse and running away without a word, as if the bombing was going to be. Guys, are you crazy, I'm asking you. Ms. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, Parliament Speaker, this is a Serbian sanctuary, this is not a circus hall, don't do this kind of thing anymore, I bestow on you to God. You let Saša Tijanic go, you let go, I remember a time when your party friends made a hundred times less mistakes than you did today, begged, crawled, hugged their feet, kissed their shoes to let go. Does Tijanic know that Komrakov loved shoes to let the people go home? You don't remember that when the people go crazy and go crazy. Ma'am, this is a sad day for Serbia. You've killed democracy, especially in these last two days. This is a disgrace for a democratic state, this is a decommissioning. You brought Tomica here yesterday to talk about health care in some night's debate, no TV. You are looking at ‘Tur de France’. Is it normal for someone to sit down for five hours to watch a group of cyclists drive? That's all you want. Please, I can't really understand what you're doing. You bring in these unfortunate ministers, you just pull them out and kick them, jump in, jump out, don't hang up and pass the time. Who gave you a warrant, did Ollie Ren, to refer to him tomorrow, to adopt ten laws a day? What laws? What will be better for Serbia than for those laws of yours? Nothing. You adopted 15 laws of agriculture before in a day's debate? How's the farmers today? Niggers than ever, black without any white. Work law, connect everything, just defiling. You don't know who he is anymore, people, who he's attacking, who he's talking about, who he's referring to, who he listens to. Look at your coalition members, how many of them there are to monitor this painful session. And they're sick, I understand them, and they're uncomfortable. I don't know what we're looking for here anymore. We'd better go out and sing, people. Let's practice some choir songs here, train, use this gym for something, get some recreation, not sit here and make a fool out of ourselves, sit here and be part of a circus party. Unfortunately, this is all true. Why did you bring us together today? To tell us a story first thing in the morning, you want something that hasn't come to Europe yet. We are the first to go, the religious communities must plead, we have listened to the minister today, and that is good, but we are going 10 steps ahead of Europe, Europe cannot reach us. Europe has a problem and that's why Ollie Rehn might be coming. He can't follow us how many laws we adopt daily and what we do, and wonders. Madam Minister, are you normal that you owe four billion euros to this country? There's nothing to be done. The construction site in front of my house is standing there and I'd ask you to come see, people are stealing, they're out of oil, and you're just raising credits. From the new year to today, four billion euros, the IMF three billion, you don't count on it, but that's what our grandkids are going to pay for our children. You may not count on it, it came to you with such an apron, right, without Parliament, without anything. You spent eight hundred million. Where? Who did you give it to? How? By what criteria? Did you make public procurement for these loans today? You're not. No, ma'am. You've been told by Junior, the great genius, that genius who doesn't have any MPs here in the O.R., for whom no one will vote in this Serbia anymore, that genius who lined up five million Serbs to wait in line and cost this country, to sign up with a great administration of some action. Where is he now, where are the actions? Why didn't you do something to bring that fraud in and punish him? Whoever comes out in public looking for something like that, he's a fraud. He's still the minister, he's holding your hat, he's conducting you. You're in charge today, we're in charge. How can you not be ashamed? Nothing is done in Serbia. Give me the two construction sites in Serbia that you have to function, which you started and formed, not the old ones that were in the previous government. You don't have a single site today, ma'am. You don't have a construction site on today. When are you going to open them? They're almost rested. It's snowing. Last year, you sprayed mosquitoes and allocated funds to the rebalancing in October and November. Is that right? We singled out some big money to spray mosquitoes in Vojvodina, and for agriculture we set out somewhere in December last year, some extra funds. So we're a floating ship, and you don't know what you want from us anymore. Let's sit here and listen, and you're nervous when we don't listen to you, and you're nervous when we tell you something. You want us to applaud you and welcome you, and your genius moves and the moves you're making, your genius projects you're coming up with. Serbia is in big trouble. Serbia has to solve this problem and return here to this parliament to decide here. Every day a bigger accident than a bigger one. I don't understand you anymore. I can't follow you. I tried not to listen to you and go out and sit upstairs, but the man gets his food, the accident, everything you do, everything you do, everything you humiliate, underestimate and punish us, that we don't know what we're going to do with ourselves. We come here to listen to you, the story is nothing. So do something normal, resign, it's normal, it's most common, when you don't know where you're going, what you're going to do with yourself. Come out nice and resign, we'll understand. How did Zoran Zivkovic come out nicely and say – I am calling the elections? You forced him not to, gentlemen of the ruling coalition, many of you. He said, "I am powerless, I cannot torture the people, and I have called the elections." What are you waiting for? You're torturing everyone. What kind of circus was this? Mrs. Slavica, if you'd watched you throw Dulic out last night when a man wanted to speak, it was sad to see the minister. And this poor guy, I don't even know what his name is, the one with the beard that he was, he, the martyr, picked up the same thing, just yawned to say something, and the other minister ran. Quick change. They didn't even do that in hockey. Therefore, what you are doing does not look like a democratic state, a democratic Serbia, this does not look like a parliament. You're telling us here that you're going to introduce electronics into healthcare, that you're going to introduce the most modern technologies in the information system. Ma'am, my child almost got sepsis the other day from a C-section. You don't know how to do that. Half your people have nothing to do with it. Doctors apologize. The eye doctor tells me - I only have one set of equipment. I can't, while she's sterilizing, if it's an emergency, I have to infect the patient or let him lose his eye. Ma'am, what health care, what information technology? You don't have any sheets. I was lying in the hospital, there's chaos, there's evil. That's why Tomica didn't even give the debate. He can't decide. There's chaos and there's no need to invest, but to invest in something in the O.R. How many people today are waiting for heart surgery, hip surgery, knee surgery? People die because they can't get in line, there's nowhere to go. The other day I prayed for a place on VMA, and they say -- we don't have a bed, we have to throw someone out, we don't have a place to go, we don't have a bed. You're taking to modernize, to insert as many computers as possible, to get some of your people there to God you have these databases. What black data? It's the first century, you don't know how to operate. A professor from the school of economics in Cacca died of tonsils, this woman died in Kragujevac the other day, she was cut off by one leg, the other leg by a czaric cut. Don't you know, don't you know what's going on? I don't understand. It's all your risk. Not in here, not in God's name to hurt someone. You're at risk of taking out a tooth, a high risk, a high risk. So, you'll have to come to your senses. Sit down from the ruling coalition, apologize a little, let's get out of my way so you don't mind. Let's get ready once, and all of this in principle to hold discussions and adopt all the laws at once, as far as your EU is concerned. We are for Europe, but normal Europe, like other peoples, that Europe that will consider us partners, not yours, where you play some clowns, bring you a list of laws, and you compete to report – boss, we have adopted everything. And we're all niggers and niggers. Each of your laws is tens of thousands of new jobs lost and 5,000 new administrations. Where are we going? You see how few people work, how much industrial production goes down. What about agriculture? Why did she drop this much? Just put yourself in charge. You sell companies, you drop everything, and now there's credits, credits for everything there is, credit only, only where it's given. There's no more for you. Good for you. You know when a gambler loses, he gives the house 1,000 euros to get away with it. And you want to get out. There's no extraction. You're sinking into a break-in. It is better to leave as soon as possible, because Serbia cannot be removed when you leave. That's why it's very important that you last as soon as possible. Don't be mad, I'm telling you this on purpose. Mrs. Djukic, tonight, consider these moves you made yesterday, these quick hockey changes, and that never happens again, you're a serious lady. You can't be allowed, your students are watching you, people are watching you here. Let's be human. Tomorrow will pass your term, and we will meet again. How are you gonna look us in the eye after all you're doing? How will you talk to us, like some partners, MPs, friends, fellow citizens, etc? It's sad what you're doing. It's too bad there can't be any sadder. Believe me, there's so much responsibility no one can handle. Four and a half billion credit lines owe the banks this year, billions of euros. That 800 million is gone. People have slowed you down a bit, they say, come on, spend it. I've been working with the IMF for years. You know what the people of the World Bank said recently when they were in Belgrade, that the biggest thief they could come up with in health and that they were looking for an inspection and there are so many anonymous reports in the World Bank. Talk a little bit about the fact that they asked Dinkic not to be a representative of the World Bank anymore, that the biggest malversions were in health investments. They came to Belgrade, someone took them in, calmed them down, said no, there might be elections, maybe they'll beat us. So let them defeat you, but leave with honor and honesty, and with dignity. Don't be shy. This has become embarrassing. This is just unbearable. If it suits you, we won't be coming. We'll leave now. How are you not ashamed to have several MPs sitting here before midnight to discuss serious issues? You go dot-to-point and so embarrassingly adopt law after law. So, I don't understand Tadic, if this is his idea, if he gave this idea, then it's really embarrassing for Serbia. I was very disappointed because I've been an associate with him for years. I figured things like this would never happen in Serbia again. We have striked and made gatherings of over 200,000 citizens here for Milosevic's less than a hundred times gestures than you do today. This has gone beyond all measures. It's funny to you, Mrs. Comic. Everything's funny to you. You know who's just laughing? I won't tell you. Ask someone else. Everything's funny to you, and I would think it's funny to sit here, and be surprised and baptized to work and support for over a year, and this poor Serbia is putting up with you. You steal time, you take word, you make quick changes, you do things, and we keep quiet and we suffer, and Serbia is silent and patient, and the peasant is silent and patient. Here, now the plum's coming, where are we going to get it? The cherry came, what about her, what about the meat, ma'am? What do we take, where do we take, where are our markets? Do you know any markets that are open to Serbia now? Do you know any jobs we have outside? We don't. The import lobby does what it wants in Serbia, imports. We're one built-in street. We don't even know where our borders are or where our borders are, we don't even know where the local authorities are, when who's gonna be disbanded. Whoever's unsuitable to you is going home. All you're saying is, break-up, your people here lift their hands and that's how it all ends. So this can't take long, and you're unfortunately lucky that this accident lasts as it lasts. That's funny to you. You're thrilled, you're boasting. Now you're going to run, you're going to make a phone call -- hello, Boris, it's all on schedule, and tomorrow we're going to work, and Sunday. Why? We enter the EU on Monday, and if we don't finish up to 12 on Sunday night, there's nothing from the EU on Monday? You can see we're not going to be the way we are. They don't want us because of you because you're like this. They all know, they laugh at you. They talk to both of us from the opposition and they say they have not met more obediently and people who respect their country less. You're breaking your own constitution. Every other law violates the Constitution. You don't respect the Constitution, you don't respect the Assembly, you don't respect congregation resolutions, you don't respect anything. Then who will respect you? How can we respect you as your colleagues when you don't respect the state? You took the oath. That's where you stood and took your vows, the one where you took... Boris took an oath to honor the Constitution and do you respect it? No, I don't. You trampled everything, you put it all under your feet. You don't have any pardons. I don't want to bother you anymore. I have no obligation to listen to you. I'm sitting here in the hallway, talking to people normal, who come out and say, "people, this has never been like this." This is black without any white. This is impossible. We've all apologized to each other here, and we've all come to the same conclusion, that there's never been a nigger worse, and you've never been more cheerful, ever funnier, never more relaxed. Here, that defence minister took the world to Greece, so you have an orgy, an orgy. Who's gonna pay for that? A year's salary is spent on one vacation. I don't know what he lives on. What's he got to do with the receipts? Woe to us with you, and woe to you, for God's sake...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-21-0.u24783	Time. Thank you, Mr. Ilic. The word has a minister, Dr. Diana Dragutinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-21-0.u24784	The answer, or brief information, was intended for MP Velimir Ilic. Of course, he just needs to talk and he doesn't need to hear the answer. I think you all saw well, and so did Mr. Ilic, that I didn't run in and I wasn't breathy, I walked in calmly an hour ago. I would ask Mr Velimir Ilic not to misinformed the public. When I talk about misinformation, I think about how much Serbia is in debt. He mentioned a four billion-euro figure. I'm bringing her into complete doubt. Serbia is not in charge, because borrowing is the current and you only owe yourself as much as you withdraw the funds. We have the possibility, but this is not necessary and often not done, to borrow three billion euros from the International Monetary Fund. We took advantage of that possibility. We pulled 800m euros and didn't spend a single euro. We're not in charge of three, we're in debt 800, and we haven't spent one single euro out of those 800. Also, the large number of laws that I have defended here before you and have been subjected to the strictest criticism, which concerns the giving of guarantees to the Public Enterprise "The Ways of Serbia", is the result that Mr Ilic, while Minister of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, has made huge debts. He didn't pay those debts, and today they came to pay off. At a time when there were many privatisation revenues, when there were funds, debts were made, bills were not controlled, the Public Enterprise Roads has accumulated debts - 30 billion dinars. No, it's not true, 30 billion dinars. Part of these debts practically covers the state by providing guarantees to the Public Enterprise Roads.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-21-0.u24785	Thank you, Madam Minister. Mr Tomislav Nikolic, what is the basis for the announcement? Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-21-0.u24786	Mrs Dragutinovic, you have severely violated the dignity of the National Assembly. I know you know very well the finances of all kinds, but now you're saying the words that tell me that you don't know anything about the Serbian government or at least you're working in a government where a man can't learn what a political system is. You say a minister made a debt and did not pay it, in a government that has a president, who has vice presidents and ministers, in a government where the DS was also in a state where the president of the DS is. Is it possible, Mrs Dragutinovic, that today you can make a debt, you as Minister of Finance, and never return it? Is it possible that there is such a government of the Republic of Serbia where you ministers make debts that other members of the government know nothing about it and that these are their personal debts? If you weren't a lady, I'd tell you a lot. You transfer to Mr. Ilic, who criticized you, not you but the entire government, you transfer responsibility to him for something the government did not pay. At least it's pointless. I understand that he was a finance minister, so if he refused to pay the bills, he understands that he was in a position somewhere in the vault or somewhere, so he said - I can't pay, this is not in accordance with the law, but a minister who cares about building Serbia, a minister who cared about education, a minister who cares about how you've already shared it, can't make his debts. Why is there a government and its sessions? Why is there a Prime Minister who controls, directs, unites? So, Mr. Ilic, even though he was a minister at the time, so I could say a lot about him, we were in opposition, he didn't make debts and he didn't leave you debts. You were in the government, now you're in the government, you left your debts to yourself, Mrs Dragutinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-21-0.u24787	Mrs. Dragutinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-21-0.u24788	Mr Nikolic, there is a difference in the functioning of public enterprises on one side and the budget of the Republic of Serbia. So this is not the debt the finance minister refused to pay because public enterprises are independent, independent legal entities. The public company "Serbian Roads" was under the direct control of Minister Ilic. So, as an independent legal entity, the Public Enterprise Roads has made huge debts, not the budget of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-21-0.u24789	I ask the People's Messengers not to earn it. In the electronic system, they were registered with a request for a word from MPs Milos Radulovic, Tomislav Nikolic and Dejan Mirovic. People's MP Tomislav Nikolic wants a replica or a breach of the Rules of Procedure? The right to a replica of MP Tomislav Nikolic, so MP Milos Radulovic also has the right to replication. [[Tomislav Nikolic, from place: Right to replica.]] National MP Miloša Radulovic, do you want to hurt the Rules of Procedure, because in that case you have an advantage over counterpart Nikolic or a replica? National MP Tomislav Nikolic, then MP Milos Radulovic. [[Milos Radulovic, from place: Right to replica.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-21-0.u24790	Mrs Dragutinovic, is not the founder of the Public Enterprise "The Ways of Serbia" Velimir Ilic, but the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Who controls the Public Enterprise of the Serbian Roads? The government of the Republic of Serbia. Don't tell me that's how the National Bank operates, that there's your ministry, that you all have your pajamas, your esnafs, that you've closed at least those parts of the government that have taken over political parties and that you don't know what they're doing. What kind of finance minister are you if you don't know how much debt they owe you or minus at the expense of public enterprises right now? Well, you're not to paint, but to keep that little money that we've all provided, some by our work, to be the guardian of that golden treasure, the only one we have. Don't, you're into politics, you stick to your profession. Don't accuse the ministers of what the entire government is doing, it's the responsibility of the entire government.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-21-0.u24791	The word has a minister of finance.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-21-0.u24792	I'm not accusing anyone, Mr. Nikolic. I know very well that the Public Enterprise has not made a new debt since the moment I arrived. All I know is what I found. I found unpaid bills. I'm not accusing anyone. Also, I don't like taking pictures and looking to do my job professionally. Mr Ilic was the first to start a discussion on the enormous borrowing of the Republic of Serbia. That was my answer, that for part of the debt, he's as responsible as I am.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-21-0.u24793	The word has the People's MP Milos Radulovic, right to replication. (Milos Aligrudić, from the post: Advertising Rules of Procedure. ) National MP Milos Aligrudic wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-21-0.u24794	You've done a violation of the Rules of Procedure when you're between the two rights to replication, which you've given up in advance by calling out the MPs, it's your discretionary right, as you often say yourself, in relation to Article 101... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-21-0.u24795	People's MP, it's about my discretionary right and there can be no violation of the Rules of Procedure. (Milos Aligrudic, from the post: You have no right to do this. ) National MP Milos Aligrudic throws away, as does MP Zoran Nikolic. I warn you of breach of Article 104. Rules of Procedure and bans of discarding during the Presidency and other MPs. The word is made by MP Milos Radulovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-21-0.u24796	Mrs. Komic, this is not the first time you've acted like this and this doesn't surprise the MPs, at least from opposition parties, but what I wanted to do is answer Mrs. Dragutinovic and I'll be very brief. Mrs Dragutinovic said, more or less, that certain ministries in the previous government did not behave domestically. I'd like to ask you a question - how many foreign reserves did the previous government leave? Ten billion and 200 million euros, right? The foreign reserve situation is now eight billion and 900m euros. In doing so, you had one tranche of funds between the IMF of 788 million and you had privatisation revenues, which from the NIS, which was some of the smaller privatisations, about 740m euros, which were agreed, more or less, at the time of the government of Vojislav Kostunica, led by the DSS. Gathering the DSS, because we don't like to use the term used by this ruling coalition and the president of the state, because he says -- I run this coalition, I'm the president of the state, I'm the president of the party and I'm the Prime Minister. Two billion and 730m euros should justify the funds spent on foreign reserves. Where did those funds go?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-21-0.u24797	National MP Milos Aligrudic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-21-0.u24798	Article 27 and Article 113. Article 27, compared to what would be good, by leading this session, using the general provision of Article 27, to listen to the MP, to explain to you what the injury consisted of, and not to interrupt it in half of the sentence, interpreting what he wanted to say, and what he did not say. I wanted to tell you at the time that it is not your discretionary right to whom you will give the replica, but the injury consists in something else, Mrs. Komic. The injury consists of, calling the MPs in the order you have done, giving them the right to reply in advance, which is not disputed, that is your discretionary right, in the meantime, given the word to the minister, and the minister acts according to the rules set out in Rule 113 of this Rules of Procedure, where very clearly it is said - the provisions of this Rules of Procedure at the meeting of the National Assembly are applied to all other participants in the session, in addition to the MPs, and are applied accordingly to the meetings of committees and other working bodies. Therefore, once you have established the order for replicas, you cannot interrupt that order by giving the minister the word to break the order. That's what I wanted to point you to, and you didn't have the patience to hear me.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-21-0.u24799	Unfortunately, you're wrong one more time. The promoter, i.e. the minister, has the right to get the word over the line and whenever he asks for it, and all other provisions refer to the proposer of the act if it comes from the government. Replication and the right to give a word in a replica is not an advantage that is meant when searching for a word is based on article 100 and giving the right to the word of injury to the Rules of Procedure. So Minister Diana Dragutinovic has the right to get word over the line and whenever she asks for it, in any case, unless the MP wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure. You want us to make a statement on this injury in the voting day? That way, the congregation will decide, and I ask you to use your right to Article 100(1) more carefully next time. National MP Miroslav Markicevic. Do you want a replica or a breach of the Rules of Procedure? Right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-21-0.u24800	Dear Vice President, I'd like to replicate to the Minister. Madam Minister, since you mentioned the president of the NS, Mr Velimir Ilic, on this basis I am reporting on behalf of the NS parliamentary group. I recently warned you here of a gentlemanly, unofficial agreement about the new year when we adopted the budget. You've been in violation of that gentleman's agreement for the second time. I will ignore that you are a woman, and indeed I will publicly tell the citizens of Serbia what we have spoken in six eyes. That's not how you talked about Mr. Ilic back then. You were talking in a superlative. Speaking now about Mr. Ilic, you were talking about some vice-president of the current government of the Republic of Serbia, and not in the chosen words. Otherwise, let me warn you, since I still think you are very professional, on the structure of the debt of the Public Enterprise "The Ways of Serbia", do you think everything in this Serbia starts from you and from your place as finance minister? Do you know that it was the Roads Directorate, the budgetary institution, that someone's decision with a 10.2 billion debt was made by a public company? Why not ask the question – who has made such a decision? I refer you to your current head, the Prime Minister, and once Minister of Finance, to take the minutes, Mrs Dragutinovic, from the National Assembly, from the session of the Traffic Committee, and see what he said there. I think because of the pride and dignity you should have as a mother and wife, when you read what Mirko Cvetkovic said, you will never again say a word "a" negative about Mr. Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-21-0.u24801	The word has the finance minister, Diana Dragutinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-21-0.u24802	I don't know what you recognized in my words as bad behavior and bad words about Minister, or Ambassador Velimir Ilic. I just wanted to say what it is, that it's not just me as finance minister or this government that's responsible for this kind of borrowing. And that's true. Tell me it's not. I think so. Something that wasn't paid once, paid now. Responsibility is mutual. I just wanted to say that it's not just my government and mine, but some before. Another, perhaps, answer to the question – where the foreign reserves went. I don't know if Mr. Radulovic knows what's behind the foreign reserve data, what he thinks is a great success of every government -- how many foreign reserves she's left behind. I would like to say that the level of foreign reserves, above all, was the result of a very restrictive policy of the National Bank of Serbia. When you enter the structure of what these foreign reserves are, you will see that most of the foreign reserves are essentially a mandatory reserve imposed by the NBS on business banks. Why are the foreign reserves down? I want to remind you that in October 2008, on the first news that a bank failed, within a month, the citizens of this country pulled more than a billion euros in savings. So, due to the fall in foreign exchange savings, which fortunately returns, foreign reserves have been reduced.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-21-0.u24803	The word was sought by MP Milos Radulovic. Do you want a replica?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-21-0.u24804	Madam Minister, as you know, we have proposed a deposit insurance law. And one question for you -- did your secretary of state accuse the DSS of spreading panic among Serbian citizens and defetism? And that you have prominent experts who at the advice of bankers here in Serbia said that because of the government's untimely response, citizenship has drawn over a billion euros in savings, or deposits. Let me ask you in the end, are the MPs responsible for asking you such unfortunate questions, or are you responsible for letting them leave the foreign reserve like that? What's the reason the course jumped, when we warned you, from 75 to 95? We were asking a question on the Finance Committee, but we didn't get an answer from anyone, who bought the foreign exchanges? Who bought the foreign exchanges? Who put pressure on foreign exchange reserves to increase so much demand compared to the inflow? Why don't you answer that? Are they monopolies? Did the banks take the funds out of the country or did the monopolies you gave the privileged position buy them out for a favor made by this government? This government, headed by Boris Tadic and DS, has been formed, I repeat once again, and I have said that several times, import lobbys, monopolies and ambassadors of individual countries. That is why the government does not work in the interests of Serbian citizens, but works solely in the interest of stakeholders.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-21-0.u24805	National MP Dejan Mirovic wants to speak as an authorised representative of the SRS parliamentary group. Before I give you my word on the basis of Article 27, I shall inform the MPs that I have been warned by the professional services that Article 93, which speaks of the order of giving words during the session, is not strictly applicable, and that the first position, the fourth indent, should be applied strictly and strictly, in order to avoid unnecessary confusion during the session. The fourth indent of Article 1 reads - the president, or representative of the parliamentary group, who has the right to speak for up to 20 minutes, with this time being able to split into two parts of 10 minutes - for the opening statement and the final word, 'and every next speaker, and on the basis of the obligation of paragraph 1, indent 4, will be questioned in 10 minutes and interrupted during the speech in order to be strictly applicable to Article 93, paragraph 4. MP Dejan Mirovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-21-0.u24806	Ladies and gentlemen, the SRS is against the bill we are considering today, as Serbia's further borrowing of about 350m euros is envisioned. More specifically, the Republic of Serbia is in debt with the European Investment Bank for 250m euros, with three Western banks operating in the territory of the Republic of Serbia for 90m euros and with the World Bank for about 10m euros. In this context, the proposal for a law confirming a financial agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank and the National Bank of Serbia worth 250m euros, more specifically the proposal for a law regulating the Apeks loan for small and medium-sized enterprises, fully shows how unargued the claims that the European Investment Bank is giving us aid. When the bill is analysed, it is more than clear that it is not about any aid, as some Deputy Prime Ministers say, but rather about a very unfavourable loan. The bill also shows how superficial claims some politicians have made that Serbia cannot develop without the European Union's loan. Basically, the European Investment Bank's loan, which we are considering today, will benefit the most from European Union banks working on the territory of the Republic of Serbia. The bill states that the financing of each individual project financed by the European Investment Bank must be subject to a loan agreement between the National Bank of Serbia and the mediators and the end-user. The intermediary is, by definition, any bank or financial institution in the territory of the Republic of Serbia selected by the European Investment Bank. If we add to this the fact that about 75% of the banking sector in Serbia is in the hands of Western banks, it will be clear who will make the most of this European Investment Bank loan. So, the phrase that Serbia must go through the European Union and so on, because it allegedly gives us favourable loans, is far from reality. These phrases have no foothold in economic data. The debate on this loan should point out that we from the Serbian Radical Party respect Mrs Dragutinovic and appreciate her attitude towards parliament. We know that as a doctor of economic science, he's trying to defend the government's economic policy with economic arguments and definitions, not cheap pulsism, as some of her colleagues. In this context of Mrs Dragutinovic's correct relationship, it was necessary for this parliament, on the basis of this bill, which will ultimately charge Serbia with an additional 250m euros, the governor of the National Bank of Serbia. Not only because it represents an institution listed as one of the three sides of this financial contract, and not only because in this contract, more specifically a 250m-euro loan, the National Bank appears as an agent on behalf of the borrower, more specifically the Ministry of Finance, as stated at the beginning of the contract, but ladies and gentlemen, because under the contract, the National Bank of Serbia undertakes to approve the European Investment Bank's choice for an intermediary or a bank that will earn on those additional interest. So, we would, by any chance, be interested in the governor here, precisely the criteria for that choice of banks on our banking market, because we fear that, as so far in our banking market, we would have preferred the West Bank. The conclusion suggests that only Austrian banks have a monopoly position of almost 30%. However, for the sake of truth, it should also be said that a 2008 report was sent to this parliament about 20 days ago to the NBS or the borrower agent in this contract. It is precisely data from the NBS report that clearly shows why it is not necessary to accept draft laws in charge of the Republic of Serbia for an additional 350m euros. Of course, such is the minimum value of this loan, which is allegedly generously given to us by the European Investment Bank, three Western banks working on the territory of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the World Bank. When we add interest and unfavourable conditions to this huge figure provided for by these bill proposals, more specifically by foreign banks in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, which in 2008 alone amounted to 470m euros, then it will be clear who will benefit most from these interest and harmful loans. The basic data in the NBS report that defined us to be against the further borrowing of the Republic of Serbia and against these draft laws is the one about the height of our country's external debt. For example, according to NBS, external debt in 2008 was about $30 billion or around 21 billion. The average interest rate on this debt, according to the same source, was about 5%. So, on the basis of interest alone, Serbia was obliged to pay about 1.500,000 euros to foreign creditors in 2008. Also, according to NBS data, another 2,300,000 euros have been paid back to foreign creditors based on the principal. So in 2008, billions of euros went abroad from Serbia only on the basis of external debt, billions of euros, which could be used to improve our health, education, help the poorest, help our military and police, as funds for justice, pensions, raise wages and fight unemployment. The sum of the sum is best shown in comparison with the sum planned for the total expenditure of the budget adopted at the end of 2008. The sum was about eight billion euros at the time. Instead of using these several billion euros to boost the budget by about 20% to 30%, which would inevitably reflect the increase in our citizens' standards and the better functioning of our country in difficult and crisis times, the government, due to the wrong economic policy set by the IMF, has shifted these funds to those who are far richer than we are, to foreign trusts from rich EU countries. So essentially Serbian citizens, which could boost the country's budget by 20% to 30%, are moving towards rich EU countries by paying off harmful loans, as is the one we are considering today. Citizens on these loans need to be told the truth, and she is that in the coming years, probably in decades, if such a devastating borrowing policy continues, they will only work for interest payments on loans. Of course, those associated with the interests of international banks will benefit. For example, the proposal for a World Bank loan law states that according to the World Bank guidelines, a special procurement procedure for international goods, a special procedure for consulting services, a special access fee of 26,000 euros will be applied and there will be a project coordination unit. This should certainly be added that the World Bank’s practice is that, in accordance with these guidelines, projects are allocated by so-called ‘the World Bank’. the procurement experts or accredited staff, which determine the contract list, the percentage of purchases, the procurement methods. Also, these individuals must meet the conditions that they have several years of standing with the World Bank. Their work is supervised by a regional procurement consultant. With this in mind, does anyone reasonable believe that these people will make a decision that does not favour the foreign businesses at the expense of the Serbians. More specifically, the World Bank is practically giving money to Western producers so that they can install their goods in Serbian businesses, hospitals or other institutions. After that, both the remont and the circle of foreign creditors' profits continue to be extended. For these reasons, we oppose the conclusion of such harmful contracts that lead to greater debt from the Republic of Serbia only for further wealth to Western companies and banks. Of course, the respected Mrs Dragutinovic will probably use the argument that private and public debt should be distinguished in the context of this debate. In this context, it will conclude that the Republic of Serbia, in relation to its gross domestic product, is not an overindebted country. And also, if by any miracle the governor of the National Bank here or Simon Grey, a representative of the World Bank, who should be one of the signatories of the contract that we are considering today, and who normally keeps teaching us in our media how much we stand out to help our businesses, they might use a similar argument. However, I will remind the distinguished Mrs Dragutinovic and all of you that not so long ago, in 1983. (President: 10 minutes. ..... I'd keep going if I could. In 1983, a famous night session of the then Federal Assembly of the SFRY was held in the same hall. It was the culmination of this process of uniting public and private debt, which we are talking about today and which we are warning, which Simon Grey is covering up. Here's what the distinguished Professor Predrag Jovanovic-Gavrilovic of the Faculty of Economics in Belgrade writes about the process. The minister certainly knows that Professor Jovanovic-Gavrilovic is our leading expert in the field of international business financing. In addition, his textbook "International Business Financing" is used at the Faculty of Economics in Belgrade. He wrote in a scientific paper entitled "Serbia's Indebtion and Donations" next – the second Yugoslavia in the second half of the 1970s sharply increased its debts to abroad. The IMF represented itself as a neutral intermediary between debtors and creditors, but it was clear that his trustees' interests were much closer. The debtors were then threatened that unless an agreement was reached that their assets would be seized abroad, embassies, ships and planes." Then Dr Predrag Jovanovic-Gavrilovic cites concrete figures. Another Yugoslavia's external debt was $5 billion in 1974, and in 1980 it was already 19 billion. Dear Mrs Dragutinovic will surely say that it is not the same value of dollars then and now, and we agree with that finding, but it should certainly be added to the fact that the former Yugoslavia had several times more inhabitants than the Republic of Serbia. Then, Dr Jovanovic-Gavrilovic said -- "In 1979, Yugoslavia recorded a record deficit in the balance of three billion 670m dollars, which means that only in that year did the external debt increase by so much. In 1981, Yugoslavia's total foreign debt exceeded 21 billion dollars. Under pressure from foreign debt, Yugoslavia was forced to negotiate reprogramming its commitments. At a night session of the Federal Assembly in May 1983, on pressure to testify and what the session was held on the night when its time was not, Yugoslavia was forced to accept the sovereignisation of the debt. Since then, about 18 billion debt, only 4.5 billion was government and state-guaranteed debt, and the rest was a debt to businesses and business banks, we could say private debt. Under pressure from creditors and the International Monetary Fund Yugoslavia was forced to accept the entire debt as a state -- hence the name sovereignisation of the debt. If we were in a different situation, we could say that the state is not responsible for the commercial debts of certain businesses and banks, and let only lenders worry about the collection of its claims," concludes our leading expert in the field of international affairs and finance from the Faculty of Economics in Belgrade. So, ladies and gentlemen, on the basis of the above, it is clear that we have a sovereignisation of the debt and no phrases can hide it, because unfortunately it is clear that the negotiating position of the Republic of Serbia is now even more difficult than that of the other Yugoslavia, and not so long ago 1983. In this context, according to the already quoted report by the National Bank of Serbia for 2008, the public sector's external debt amounted to $6 billion and $387m at the end of December 2008, which accounts for 29% of the total debt. So this is some approximate figure to the one mentioned for the former Yugoslavia, but then there was no such monopoly of foreign, or Western banks on the territory of the Republic of Serbia, nor did the private debt grow so uncontrollably. According to the NBS report, the state of foreign debt of the private sector, businesses and banks on 31 December 2008 amounted to 15 billion and 400m euros or about 71% of the total debt. In this context, the debt of the banking sector was reduced by 1.5% compared to the end of 2007, but the external debt of enterprises was 11 billion and 500m euros at the end of the year, an increase of almost incredible 49.6% compared to the end of 2007. So almost 50% in a year, it's simple not to believe. Also, unlike public and bank debts, private debt companies have been dramatically increased over the past few years. This should also be added to the following data from the NBS report - external debt in dollars between 2000 and 2008 - increased at an average annual rate of 13.9%, while in euros it was about 8%. Such movements have been affected by the decline in the value of dollars relative to the euro. The euro's participation increased from 40% at the end of 2001 to 78% at the end of 2008. In this context, if the base value was taken on 31 December 2001, the date after which the euro was introduced, according to the NB report, the total increase in external debt at the end of 2008 would be truly 88%. Also, the growth in dollars, due to the loss of that currency, is more than doubled. So, Serbia is almost uncontrollably in debt and no claim that it is a public and private debt and that it should be seen separately, as if it is happening in another country, it cannot be denied, because simple logic shows us that the IMF is the main creator of the country's economic policy. In addition, respected Mrs Dragutinovic, in a statement on 11 April 2009, said -- that every three months the Serbian government will agree with the IMF on an analysis of economic policy. In this context, it should not be doubted that at some time the IMF will require the Republic of Serbia to sovereignise debts, just as it did in the case of the former Yugoslavia in 1983 and adopted in this same hall. So sooner or later, and this is our citizens and all of us in this room need to know, our country will have to be pressured and blackmailed by the IMF to take over and a private debt, which, as we have already seen, increases at a huge rate. That is why we from the SRS are against the continued borrowing of this country and this people, so we are against the further borrowing of 350m euros. It's huge money, and the state needs to find it somewhere else, if it's necessary. We'll make that clear. Taxing companies, such as Delta, these are the monopolies that are being talked about here, which have three billion euros per year only because of their monopoly. Also, cold heads should have talked to the Russians, more seriously and before as part of the strategy, and not now that the crisis is at its peak, because they will not seek the sovereignisation of debt, the destruction of the social and state-run credit programme, such as the IMF and the World Bank -- which they do not say, as a connected institution. It is completely illogical in this context that this state is in debt with the bank and the IMF, while Russian Federation Finance Minister Mr. Kudrin announced in a statement on May 28th this year that he was purchasing securities from the IMF, precisely $10 billion. So, it has nothing to do with the economy or the dogma and utopia of a paradise that's supposed to be waiting for us in the west and in Brussels. In this context, we are aware that the representatives of the government will try to bring down something that is inconclusive, which is the fact that the Republic of Serbia is going towards an inevitable sovereignisation of the debt, more specifically by the merger of private and public debt, and in this part of proving the impossible. One of the claims will certainly be - yes, the IMF has good intentions for us. However, we are convinced that if the IMF has persuaded the SFRJ government then to take over another $14 billion in public debt instead of 4.5 billion in public debt, no phrases about the movement between external debt and GDP will be able to dispute that. The neutral economic analysis will show this truth and it shows how harmful further borrowing of this country is. For example, we already quoted our leading expert on international finance affairs, in his scientific paper on Serbia's duty, as saying otherwise that this scientific paper was published in 2007, before the start of this economic crisis, states: "When some current politicians want to show that our external debt is not large and is actually decreasing, they point out that in 2000 external debt represented 120% of the social product, and today only 60%, which should show that the level of debt is half the same. ''Accounting is true, but the assessment of the value of the social product for 2000 is unrealistic. So-called The international community...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-21-0.u24807	Twenty minutes, MP, the time at your disposal as an authorised representative has been used. Do any of the other presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, want the word? If not, I'd like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, they are in conformity with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure, until the opening of a joint single and principled search for a word in writing by a parliamentary group: New Serbia, DSS, Forward Serbia, the SRS; a total of 11 speakers were reported. The first, and in the order of the application for the word is the MP Zlata Djeric, followed by MP Milan Lapčević. There's a word from MP Zlata Đeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-21-0.u24808	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honored Chairman, Honored Madam Minister, we have before us a set of laws, namely a set of decisions that should be in charge of Serbia's new over 350m euros. I'd have to remind Mrs. Minister that debt is always an evil friend and that interest is never favourable. I'll remind you, since I know you'll understand, for one moment in our history, which doesn't study much in textbooks, but it is present and known. At one point, King Petar Karadjordjevic spent his year's allowance before time and, what will he do, invited then-the most famous Finance Minister, Lazar Pachu, to grant him a loan because he was marrying his daughter. Lazar Pachu, the guardian of the folk treasure, rejected him, but he was well-intentioned enough to arrange a meeting with the most visible and prominent Belgrade merchants, because he felt that they could help him and give him the loan. A pretty king sweated, but with the merchants he certainly finished the job, with his finance minister he couldn't. So that's one example that we need to remember and that we need to be taught forever and I certainly want it to be your role model. This kind of personal integrity when it comes to finance, responsibility to the people and the state, should forever be in the cabinet of every finance minister. I don't want anything negative but the instructive one to tell you. There's no good intentions for those who lend us, who are lenders, there's only one thing with them, that's interest. And when it comes to money, it's always an interest. When the state is at a time like this, economically, it has to make sure it doesn't take too long. There's no luck in the difference between being over-indebted or in charge. We're in charge, and it's our actual condition, and it's definitely gonna have to be brought back. I'm sure it'll come with interest. The interest, whatever interest rate it is, I speak in the language of ordinary people, citizens, I'm not an economist, I'm just the host of my own house who has to take care of every dinar, so interest is never favourable. I know those basic skills we always have to avoid. At this point in Serbia, the economy is very modest, the export markets are almost gone, less than a million people are working and all must be financed from their work: it is almost a million and a half unemployed; it has to be filled with the budget, to finance the pension fund, to create for nearly eight million citizens everything that needs to sustain life or the vision of life. It would be good, of course, to explain to the citizens of Serbia what is really happening to us, and it is not the responsibility of the finance minister, it is the responsibility of the entire political public. So, to call things real names, transition is a euphemism for revolution, it's not armed, but it's not without victims and it's serious sacrifices that we endure from day to day, whether they're in economic or any other sense. We are in transition, of course, reluctantly, by the formation of world winds, sucked up, and globalisation, in which we are also sucked, is nothing but a serious privatization of the world from several powerful empires who want to take on their private property all the world's resources. We are all aware of this, and we need to explain to our citizens that they too would treat this difficult economic moment more seriously and more responsibly. And who for Serbia so far has not been difficult. At this point, the only facilitating circumstance for Serbia is that we are at least individual, or per capita, as it is said, in charge of the region. We owe it to our proverbial wisdom and responsibility acquired by the force of the 90s, those war years when we learned everything and everything, when we ate fake chocolate, we used fake vegetation, made fake dishwashing detergents, etc., and did impossible things, so now we realized we can't take off on all the loans and all those offers of paint that the countries in the environment flew to. We have seen the latest example of Croatia in which, for you, a compliment, Madam Minister, the Croats, when they came to bankruptcy, had to call on a lady and hand her over the helm of the state, believing that a woman would do so with her wisdom, pragmatism to draw her out. I wish her good luck. It's hardly going to work, but I believe it will certainly give all the atoms of strength to help its country. So what you need to know as a minister at this point is that you don't need to be a party minister, that you don't need to succumb to politics, the current, the daily, the daily, the needs of these party winds. We saw it, and we all talked about it, how many budget places opened up. This debt we take to meet the deficits in the budget should be a warning and I ask you to focus all your positive vibrations and positive energy on it, just as maternally, which you have shown several times in your statements so far, that we do not owe this people more, even more difficult and even more expensive. It's hard to avoid it, but I believe that at least you'll do enough, as much as you can and as much as you can. Again, I return you to Mr. Pachu, Laz Pachu the famous, to resist all possible authority, no matter what functions they come from or what they demand. So, "can't, Your Majesty, you've spent what followed you", so he reacted and the king retreated before him. Act this way and Serbia will surely celebrate you. So what New Serbia recognises in this set of laws is the new 350m debt, and that is, we are afraid, a debt that may not have been needed at this time. There are many other things that are recognized, I think Mrs Tabakovic spoke very comprehensively and highly professionally about it. I've noticed that you've recorded it and I hope you'll check it out, it's certainly facts, because it's also given details, facts and documents that can put you in touch. We expect, when you are already put before the final act and brought into these small hours, the morning hours, because this is Serbia looking at in the morning, to present these three loans, loans, whatever they call themselves, in any case, debt, to know that there is nothing favourable, there is no good intention, it is only an emergency, and when someone is in need, then all means are used to keep him in that emergency until the end, because it is known that he has no choice. I am afraid that many of the circumstances have been forced against the wall and that we in that Europe, which I would very much like to say to the public of Serbia, are not negotiators. Everyone who says we're negotiators is lying. We are performers, and the sooner we admit it and realize it, the easier and more dignified we will treat ourselves, even to them and their famous laxmanic or hypocritical appearance. When we are here trying to defend indefensibly and when we convince the Serbian public and when we pack up everything they want to pack, so this debt, we owe it to ourselves, we owe it to generations that come after us. To be honest, because someone will have to honestly say, we owe it to this famous NATO that we're breaking into, to ask Serbia if it wants to, because NATO is not a defence force but a conquering force, and Serbs were never a conquering people. Are we ready to be cannon meat for one conquering force? That's why everything I've said, we simply and certainly won't in voting day be able as a parliamentary group to give the green light to these new debts.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-21-0.u24809	The word comes from MP Milan Lapčević, followed by MP Jorvanka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-21-0.u24810	Dear Madam Minister, these three laws you have proposed, which will be re-indebted by Serbia, should cover three areas of life in Serbia. The first area is 250,000 euros for small and medium-sized enterprises in Serbia. The 250,000 euros should boost the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, which takes place at the end of July 2009, and already 70,000 of these small and medium-sized enterprises in Serbia are in a blockade. More than 80,000 people, according to the National Employment Service, have, meanwhile, since your government took office to this day, lost its job. The decline in production is never higher. He carried out 22% in April, 21% in May, and you grabbed that 1%, saying that the fall finally stopped, and now we're making progress. You know, when you get to the bottom, then hit that bottom, then you have nowhere else to fall. How much did Sartid fire a worker, asking for now to change the Labour Act, so he wouldn't keep firing? How many furnaces did he turn off? What about the big announced investment in the pre-election campaign for new jobs? Instead of these 200,000 new jobs, instead of these investments, we today have 80,000 people without a job, and in an announcement of how many more, strikes daily on the street, 70,000 companies in the blockade, and we live and survive by taking new loans. That kind of funding and that kind of management of this country's finances could have been done by my late grandmother. Anyone can take credit and spend in advance, but the question is who's going to pay it back and what real income it's going to pay back from. If you don't have production, and obviously we don't have it, if we're normally very in charge, if our credit annuities are growing in the coming years, we're taking new and new loans. If I want to be extremely well-intentioned, I can even understand that loans are being taken for small and medium-sized enterprises. I can only ask-- why with so many months of delay? Why didn't you just do it when the crisis knocked on the door? Why did you convince Serbian citizens that the crisis would not affect Serbia, but that the crisis for Serbia is a chance? The president of your party, leader of this coalition, leader of this country, the sovereign ruler, said the crisis would strengthen us, as the famous late SPS president, once in the 1990s. Not that the crisis didn't strengthen us, the crisis hit us deeply, and your mecca or the one you don't love too much, but you have to comply with it, three months ago he said, yes, we're here at zero, now we're going up. The GDP growth rate was 6.5% in October, so in December it fell to 3.5%, to zero, and now we have minus three. Those who are much more realistic than you say will be between 5% and 7%. In such a situation, when our GDP drop is 5% to 7%, we will take new credits to cover that fall, so that in Serbia it will survive as much as possible, that your government will survive what you will not admit and will not do, and that is to reduce public spending. You promised that when you adopted the budget, you promised in the rebalancing process, you made a real media campaign that this was even good what happened to Serbia, because finally one government would clear up with extra employees in their sectors, fire that surplus, reduce that public spending, and we will finally have one more rational administration. How many people in the public administration have you fired? How many public spending have you reduced? As far as I know, none of this has happened to this day. The budget inflow is catastrophic, by about 4% is less nominal than it was in the same period last year. That's why your cost growth is about 3% higher. You will now take 90m euros, and by gleaning from three banks of 20, 30 and 40 million, to cover the budget deficit, to cover what you have spent. I think that no rational man, no rational family, no rational host will do that by spending on expensive cigarettes, on expensive cars, on cafes or not knowing what to do, and asking the neighbor to cover that there's not enough money for such expenses.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-21-0.u24811	The word has a folk MP, Jorgovana Tabakovic, and after that, MP Dejan Mirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-21-0.u24812	I will continue the story unfinished on the Serbian state's debt to domestic business banking to cover the budget deficit and refinance the debt, first and foremost in the question of the deficit structure, whether it is necessary for it to be so, because it is mainly focused on consumption, not infrastructure facilities, and because it is about us investing that we really mean any foreign investment, not productive ones. I want first of all to question not only the seriousness of the government, but the well-intentioned government that tells us that all its resources and knowledge and abilities will be invested in saving on all aspects, but in fact that it has saved and taken care of what we have defined in the Budgetary System Act as public funds might not be necessary for these debts. So, at a time when the state is in debt with 90m euros, under conditions that don't contribute to a serious lender, what kind of state is it, because it pays too high a price, one percent of the access fee, one month's Eurobor is the basis, and we're paying six months of wars and a 12-minute loan, I'm going to ask Mrs. Minister, who's bound to be in trouble with the Flight Control Agency and the Flight Director. Do you know, Madam Minister, that the Aviation Control Agency is registered with the Agency for Business Registers as a limited liability company, in accordance with some government decision that has not been published or could not be found? The Agency is in charge, this public needs to hear, the board of directors, which consists of only three members. The President of the Management Board's function is carried out by the Director of the Agency, which is a special anomaly, I'm not going to mention the director's name. For me, for you and for the citizens of Serbia, it is disputed that this agency is making $100 million a year. The people who work in it speak of this information, you will check them out. It is about funds supplied in a very illegal manner, that is to say, instead of the government receiving them under the powers conferred on an institution that operates overflight control, but as some government body, the government, the organisation, with the government's silent attitude towards illegal activity, charges in its register what would have to be State revenue. And I'll do it the next way. According to the constitution and laws, air traffic security is the duty of the Republic of Serbia and no one can dispute that. The compensation for securing that air traffic must be the income of the Republic of Serbia as public revenue, must be shown in the budget and must be charged in favour of the budget. Air traffic security is very precisely regulated by the Air Traffic Act and decisions from the authority of that administration are what is most controversial – the amount of service compensation of this type should be determined by the Government. You know that it regulates the Ministry Act, Article 11, and that according to the State Administration Act, Article 28 and 29, it was precisely regulated that the Government, through its then Ministry of Infrastructure, had to be in charge of these jobs and these revenues. Why do I find them interesting in the context of the loan talks? It is no doubt that these laws, which I have mentioned these $100,000 a year, pay exclusively to foreign carriers, so it is a net foreign foreign exchange inflow. The current way of billing, I say responsibly, is illegal and irrational. You have no control over it as government. Why? Because the income is charged by companies, companies, called the Agency for the Control of Flights of Serbia-Montenegro. Yeah, it's still called that. It's registered as D.O.O. the company is not registered as a public undertaking, nor as a public agency, to purchases under the Public Procurement Act. That is why I have insisted so much that anyone who manages public funds must fall under the Budgetary System Act, within this framework of procurement and the Board of Directors of three members, has the authority to have such huge resources, alone and without any control. With Serbia-Montenegro's collapse, the authorities of the Republic of Serbia have today failed to regulate this area and, according to the available data, this is a unique case in the world that in this way the company with limited responsibility instead of the state is engaged in these affairs, with full powers, the state administration and charges an overpass to its account, at the moment that you are asking us here to allow you and to get legal approval to charge 90m euros for the budget deficit. It is a particular question – if any kind of failure to provide that air security occurs, and if one of us were to seek compensation for damages, such as what happened with Lockerby, that damage would be charged by the Republic of Serbia, and not by this agency, which is in fact a limited liability society, of which the state does not receive an absolute single dollar. It has administrative powers even though the company and for these powers it simply does not benefit the state, does not contribute, but, according to the knowledge, very serious, has recently started building a new building at Surcin airport worth 100,000 euros with equipment, although it is equipped with extremely modern equipment for its work and has a suitable space. What citizens need to hear and know is that the average salary in this company is about 160,000 dinars and they have people with medium professional training. They have a number of privileges, and this qualification of the basic executive controller is at the level of medium-level professional training, which could suit the qualification of a medical technician. Such a salary does not have a fighter plane pilot in the Serbian Army, his salary is half as low, and in what conditions and means he is working, I will not speak and mention the last accident that happened. What is very controversial for me and you know, Mrs Dragutinovic, that as a minister you are very directed to the organization, which I also don't know what to call and classify. The same is true of a limited-responsibility society, which is incometing from this agency about 10%, and you know because of the composition of the Management Board, which is called the Civil Aviation Directorate, which collects services based on one accounting rule and the level of compensation for services provided by the Civil Aviation Directorate of the Republic of Serbia, which is located in the Constitutional Court due to the level, manner of payment and everything else. You know very well who's in that directorate's office. I don't mean to mention names, but he's in close contact with the government, and you know perfectly well he's been granted an exceptional price increase for this rule, at a time when one who doesn't give government a penny, mutually with the agency as a limited liability company, in one year $100,000 of income, can increase prices as they come to their minds. That's why Zaytin's expensive, while we're sitting here for 12 hours at least a day, and no one can talk about it, nobody gets that as a topic on the agenda, but here, in this directorate, run by the Council of Four Members, you know who are members of that council, it's possible that this is what it's all about. And what's most interesting about this topic is that the account of that directorate is open at the Alpha Bank, and look at this nonsense, the state is in debt to the Alpha Bank under the conditions of one month's Eurobor plus a fixed margin of 4.75, one percent of the access costs and all the other costs and fees, but on the revenues it fails to collect because its, this foreign exchange, this Civil Aviation Directorate is holding money at the Alpha Bank and the state practically takes credit on its assets that it does not account for. Is that what citizens should hear at two, three, five o'clock in the morning or should they have heard at a decent time? However, from the Alpha Bank, it's a 30,000,000 loan. Even here, a few million euros is not insignificant and the state must not leave one euro without its control, if it is and is charged on the basis of its powers. Otherwise, the account is open, I can say without the quote, illegally, because it is not at all, this directorate is not registered as a legal person at the Court of Commerce, or it was not until a few weeks ago, since it was whispered, or since you started the procurement procedure and it was known that the Alpha Bank will also be one of those who will give you your money, the money of Serbian citizens on loan and interest. Just because my way of expressing is a little bit sharper, it's just saying that I'm really opposed to someone under a difficult state firm telling us there's no alternative and there's no way out. There's a way out. I said, of all the costs that are left to the National Bank too high, from the issue of documents, ID cards and passports, from what you don't charge from the Air Control Agency and the Civil Aviation Directorate and to the fact that you have too many costs that you can't cut for various coalition reasons, and you should, there's another big thing that I resent. Sometimes a man can lie very seriously and keep his mouth shut. It's a lie that hurts me most as a man, not privately, in official relations. I didn't see that in one text, except for one serious monthbook, anywhere written why Brazil today is a desirable associate in any kind of relationship, because for us, for Serbian citizens, who are not ready to see what's happening on the Internet, Brazil doesn't exist. Brazil as a country that has successfully fought, which is why it is interesting for us, and that is why I resent that Brazil as a miracle that fought large public debts is not being spoken of and taken as an example. I'm going to be interested in the citizens with just a few details. It's a country that's proven to be very crisis-resistant. The secret is what I am almost boring to talk about, in the control of the financial system, in the regulated banking system, and in the control of the financial situation, i.e. the responsibility of both states and citizens. In Brazil, the basis of the banking system is three banks. The largest bank, Banco do Brasil, the National Bank for Economic and Social Development and Caixa Economica Federal Bank, which also deals with exports and development. What's the secret? Credit ratio, which is why I'm talking about this tonight, the ratio of credit and GDP in Brazil is at 40%. So the total loans to the Brazilian economy are only 40%. In the United States, which has been promoted here as the only preferred model to the crisis, this relationship is six times higher and is 249%. It turns out it's not good, and that's not what we should be trying to do. Brazil's banks on one dollar of savings give not those cautious top 12 dollars of credit, but 9 to 10 dollars of credit. In America, it's for Goldman Sachs at a $1 savings bank, or a $25 deposit, and for Mary Lynch, it's for a dollar deposit saving 31 dollars. Do we have a measure of such a relationship? Do we know where we are? Brazil is a land-spectrum consumer, what everyone wants, a country of the growing market in which there are people who will be able to buy products and trade chains that come here and everyone who comes to invest. A poverty reduction programme called "Fome Nozero" successfully redistributes wealth. When we start redistributing wealth, it starts with the government. The answer's on you. What I insist on is a country that has internal political stability and it is what is called a respectable democracy, without oscillation. Mr Luli, President, was not difficult to implement an inherited reform program. He's running it himself, and he's ready to leave when he leaves for the further realization of that program to someone who will come. For you here, the election and change of the political party leading the country you represent to the citizens of the end of the world, not wanting to be a permanent and stable democracy, threatening that if these come to power, interest will jump, the stock market will collapse, I don't know what happens. It is not good for citizens and for the state, and it is not a question of what is best for a political party. Today, Brazil has been the result of a process that has been going on for 15 years. Foreign investors, what I call respectable democracy, call Brazil a country of consolidated democracy. I have the impression that the directions and actions here are completely different, starting with what happened to us today in this building, stealing the most harmless, stealing the time of someone who was supposed to talk, but most of all, what a man has in store for, and that's a public word. Solid economic stability is a feature of Brazil with an incomplete, but what we need is predictable legislation. You can't announce, government colleagues, because he thinks he needs to run the entire government, he says, no, there won't be an increase in VAT, there's no minister's appointment, it's not nice to have a personal relationship with him, and we citizens are not categories for grading "not nice", it's "harmful" for us. So the predictability of legal regulation is something that is necessary. The largest food exporter, and we were significant, Brazil is precisely because there are large foreign sales in each scenario. Now I insist on this in every scenario. Brazil did not attach itself to one market, but to all markets and large customer dispersion, so that at no time does the crisis depend on only one market. You have recently started a shy and recent story about countries that are the future, about BRIK countries, about turning unclassified. It's too late, but I welcome you at all times, and in that direction, there must be a shift in our market. Brazil's food production, it's not subsidized, developed both private and state investments in scientific development that support this production. Where is our science, who is our leader, the so-called Duke of Meridian Bank, who was more concerned by personal interest, speaks in favour of how much we think of science, and I fear that what is done behind the back of the public will be the final red card for Mr. Djelic. Brazil has a devirified external market and not a second blow will hit it hard, but as well as countries in Eastern and Central Europe, which are in debt in euro, and thus indexing their loans, this crisis will really hit us a lot. I'm going to use the last five minutes of my discussion to say a word or two about a loan allowance for small and medium-sized enterprises and what a health loan is. The tendency I warn you of while time is a tendency in which a lower body looks to obtain from a higher authority the consent to do key jobs for which it is not competent and only in certain situations can it be approved to do so. So, as the management boards of banks in my time, while I was in banking, the Assembly took responsibility to decide between the two sessions that they were deciding on important things, in the same way we have the situation that the shareholders' congregations are looking to push out small shareholders where the small shareholders are called and 22% of shareholders who aren't the owners of a chair, some buildings, some machines, but the owners of actions, but no one has bothered to explain it to them and that they have said that their rights should be protected, because that's how action is developed. In the same way, an attempt to appear on behalf of the Republic of Serbia, the National Bank this time as a guarantee, and otherwise avoids all the obligations it has to the people and the state, is evidence of that tendency: take away the authority of a higher authority when it suits you, because you have the right to ask yourself something, but when you have to answer for your own property, by your business success, somehow pass it on to that higher authority, to another body or to another man. Until we reach the right and direct measure of responsibility and rights, start with the government and start with this most responsible thing, we as a state and as people can't move. As long as you run these jobs, you'll have support called no offense, no criticism to piss you off and discourage you, but to point out negative phenomena, that those who don't support you or think that we're worth making us crazy, say there are some people who know how to read this and who are going to find responsibility tomorrow. We want you, the people of good intentions who currently exercise power, to be supportive, pointing to what is not good enough in these laws. This is the purpose of the opposition and the purpose of the Serbian Progressive Party in these benches. On that behalf, I ask those whom I will address for the first time, which is the Presidency of the Assembly, to begin with by the vice president, the absent president of Ms Slavica, the secretary and deputy secretary - maintain dignity because we are the people who work here in the interest of their country and their citizens. We're not at a different job, you appreciate us so we can appreciate you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-21-0.u24813	Mr. Dejan Mirovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-21-0.u24814	If you remember, dear Mrs Dragutinovic, we were talking about the value of GDP and the public debt ratio. As I have already cited Mr Jovanovic-Gavrilovic's quote, the value of the social product for 2000 was unrealistic. For what reason? The so-called international community and the World Bank have agreed, even suggested, that the value of the social product at the time be so low that the SRJ could be classified into a group of poorer countries with a social product per capita under $1,000, for which, as you probably know, special conditions apply. Then, in this same scientific paper, concrete parallel data is published. "The quoted calculation relies on the social product being $9 billion in 2000 and 42 billion in 2007. ''If both data were correct, this would mean that the social product was increased five times in the meantime, i.e. the annual growth rate was 25%. That is not true, because according to the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, Serbia's real GDP growth rate from 2002 to 2007 was about 5%, 4.5%, 2.4%, 9.3%, 6.3%, 5.7% and 7.5%. With such growth rates, the social product has actually increased by seven years by not a full 50%, and not by 500%, or five times, it is concluded in this scientific paper. So this kind of economic truth happens when you cross data from multiple sources. A partial approach, which is only partially accurate, does not lead us to economic conclusions that would be related to the real situation. Serious economists, politicians, especially from the government's economy sector, must not be fooled by claims that Serbia is a country that is not over-indebted by public debt or by the ratio of total debt and GDP. We don't think there's any more room for headless borrowing that's been present for the last eight years. The sovereignisation of the debt, which will be led precisely by the International Monetary Fund, is inevitable and we are deeply convinced of that. With that fact, the government and especially its economic part must face, no matter what dishonest and malicious partners from the IMF and other related institutions mentioned in these contracts, such as the World Bank or the European Investment Bank. In that sense, in the previous report, we have stated how unrealistic claims that Serbia is a low-indebted country. We also listed data from 1983. We have disputed the approach used by the current government or a partial analysis of the external debt problem. In this context, we again regret that the governor of the National Bank is not present or, by any miracle, Mr. Simon Grey, because we can often hear from them that the comparison between the amount of public debt and the amount of foreign reserves guarantees the ability to continue borrowing this country. In this context, such proposals are also sent that Serbia should be in charge of an additional 350m euros based on this foreign reserve data. This claim on the relationship between foreign reserves and foreign debt is based on a partial approach, as well as on a fully separate view of public and private debt. The next example shows this - in the NBS 2008 report, the growth trend of the NBS foreign reserves has expressed since 2001, and it was interrupted sometime in 2008, as you stated, if I am not mistaken. At the end of 2008, foreign exchange reserves amounted to 8 billion 168m euros and were lower by a billion and 480m euros compared to the end of 2007 or about 15.4%. In dollars, those data are different. The very fact is that foreign security reserves at the end of 2008 consisted of foreign securities worth 82%, in 2007, that percentage was about 60%, then those foreign reserves consisted of deposits on NBS accounts abroad of 8.38%. In 2007, it was 35%, as well as effective foreign money at 5% and some percent, and that was 1% in 2007, and ultimately, gold and special rights to draw at 3.11%). Also, in 2007, it was a smaller percentage. When analysing these data from the NBS on foreign reserves, it can be concluded that the NBS has decided to change the structure of foreign reserves in favour of securities of value, and at the expense of deposits on foreign accounts. The foreign reserve report, which should be the alleged guarantee for the country's continued borrowing and the economic justification of the three loans that we are discussing today, lists 350m euros where and what Serbian foreign exchange reserves are invested in. They are invested in foreign securities of value within 4 bond portfolios -- the euro, the US dollar, the British pound, the Canadian dollar. The report states that government bonds have essentially increased their participation in relation to other securities of value and that deposits have been placed in central banks and high credit ratings banks. In this context, I will be fully open, previous data and charts in that report clearly show that almost all of our foreign reserves are in the West. That is why the debate on further borrowing of our country and the relationship between foreign debt and foreign reserves raises a key question, which is - how much does the state of Serbia have from holding its foreign reserves in the West? In fact, can foreign reserve income be compared to that huge amount of money going west on the basis of this country's foreign debt? I reiterate - the overall foreign debt of this country, because sooner or later, as was the case in 1983, sovereignty will take place. In that sense, according to NBS, the total income from foreign reserves, based on securities and foreign foreign exchange accounts, is around 316m euros. Compare that figure with those three billion euros that go west every year on the basis of an external debt, and you will understand that the flow of money is exactly the opposite of what we are convinced through propaganda media, through government statements, etc. So 300m euros comes from foreign reserves like our income, and three billion goes from external debt to the west. So, and for that reason, we are against the further borrowing of this country. As an economist, you will likely again state the argument that in the Russian Federation the private sector is in debt. That's right. He has owed about $400 billion in the past few years, but this argument cannot be applied to the Republic of Serbia, especially because the country's authorities are not running politics according to the IMF guidelines. So, the public debt of that country is exactly the opposite of our situation, it's been falling, it hasn't grown to a percentage of eight years. Also, it should be said openly, the private sector in that country does not have disproportionate political power in relation to a country that, for example, Mr. Miskovic has in relation to our authority. Of course, this should be added that there is a surplus in the external trade exchange between the European Union and the Russian Federation, in 2008, it was about $150 billion. On the other hand, you certainly know that the external trade deficit was recorded last year, and that it was achieved precisely because of the dogmatic orientation towards EU trade co-operation, of over 50%, if I am not mistaken 56. So about six billion dollars each year leaves Serbia for the EU precisely because of such a policy. So there's no comparison to the Russian Federation either. In the context of the key issue of Serbia's further borrowing, this data on foreign reserves tells us that there is no more, freer to express myself, the basis for further borrowing of the Republic of Serbia. On the other hand, it can be said that an enormous figure of about a billion euros that goes on the basis of interest each year and on the basis of external debt will only increase further. Because you must know, and that's the public record from the NBS report, that the foreign reserves in 2008 had a drop, and that the foreign debt had just experienced the opposite and had grown. It's a real economic truth they can't hide any phrases. It's the truth about money flows between Serbia and the West. Billions of euros go from Serbia to the west, and only hundreds go from the west to Serbia. That's why we're like the SRS against these laws that make it possible for us to say this, freely, a loan and a harmful process. That is why we do not believe the phrases by which Brussels gives Serbia some credit and other assistance without which Serbia could not survive. We just believe the opposite. We believe it's a harmful process. A correct economic approach aims to achieve economic truth, and this is a prerequisite for raising the Serbian economy and the economy from this dreary state it is in today. With all this data on the continued borrowing of the Republic of Serbia, we can add a harmonised customs and economic policy to Brussels and the IMF. In addition, you know that, if I am not mistaken, Article 117 states that the IMF and the EU will bring their policy towards the Republic of Serbia into line in this sector. All these facts that we have now cited have led to Serbia having a accumulated external trade deficit of several tens of billions of euros. More specifically, according to quoted Dr Predrag Jovanovic-Gavrilovic in his 2007 scientific paper, the cumulative trade balance deficit is as high as $36 billion and $500m between 2000 and 2007. The cumulative deficit of the current balance sheet is lower, 19 billion thanks to not the EU but primarily to the signs of workers working abroad. The question of how large these signs will be in this direction in the future, especially given the great economic crisis and the layoff in the west of workers who are not citizens of those countries. Of course, all these data should also be added to the fact that the external trade deficit of the Republic of Serbia in 2008, as we have already stated, was negative and that was a negative record of $12 billion. When we add $36.5 billion to this figure of the cumulative trade deficit between 2000 and 2007, we come up with an almost incredible figure of over $48 billion. When we divide that figure from 50%, which tells us that this is an external trade exchange with the EU, we come to the conclusion that around $24 billion from Serbia has been transferred to the EU between 2000 and 2008. That fact, ladies and gentlemen, cannot hide any loans from the European Investment Bank in the amount of 250m euros we are considering today. Also, no phrase of EU economic assistance can hide this economic truth about money flows. If we are talking about donations, it should be said that EU financial support from Serbia-Montenegro was around 545m euros from 2001 to 2005, of which only 305 are loans and 240m grants. What are these means in practice? Many funds from these donations have gone and gone to the production of any projects of little use. An example of such spending is a project of employment for which donations have been received, whose main conclusion is that people should be self-employed. Also, one donation from the UK is intended to fund a project to promote the effective use of donor funds or essentially donor coordination. These are projects that come so generously from the EU. That's the real truth about so-called. EU assistance. The European Investment Bank's credit that we are considering today, but also the World Bank's credit and this three Western banks that are to cover Serbia's budget deficit cannot be seen separately from the IMF negotiations, with this fund that is being discussed here, I do not say for you personally, but is being avoided and some controversial things are being criticised. We believe that the basic economic problem of the Republic of Serbia is exactly the policy imposed by the IMF. No matter how hard the government and the NBS are trying to show that the loans they're giving are so-called loans. European banks and the World Bank have nothing to do with IMF conditions, in practice it is not. The next example shows that. At the same time, it again shows why the SRS is against the continued borrowing of the Republic of Serbia of 350m euros. You probably know that at the end of April 2009, after the end of the spring session of the IMF and the World Bank in Washington, one of your colleagues, the Serbian government's vice-president, said Serbia would be in charge of an additional $900m. According to this statement, out of this sum, $450m will be directed towards the Serbian budget, with 300m this year and 150m in 2010. According to our media reports, the delegation of the Republic of Serbia made another vice-president also in charge of economic affairs and, of course, the governor of the NBS. In this optimistic context, it was noted that, in addition to additional borrowing from the IMF and the World Bank, "the signing of further borrowing agreements with Washington-based Western banks" has been parallelly "signed". So this was a kind of preparation for the conclusion of these borrowing contracts that we are considering today. To make the situation even more incomprehensible, the same day, Serbian media estimated that the Serbian state's debt would be doubled in 2009 from 8.93 billion euros to more than 16 billion euros. This should also be added to the above information that the private sector debt in Serbia has already crossed 10 billion euros. According to a minimum estimate and assuming that the private Serbian sector will not be additionally in debt in 2009, which is unrealistic, the Serbian debt will be 30.5 billion euros at the end of 2009 or according to the value of the NB dinar from 27 April 2009. So at the end of 2009, the Serbian debt will be comparable to the entire Serbian gross domestic product in 2007. That's the truth. Of course, in this context, the question arises, why does the Serbian external debt grow at such a rate? The answer to that question shows why we are against Serbia's further debt of $350m, I repeat that figure again. The almost incredible Serbian increase in debt in 2009 marks above all, and we will say it openly, unlike other parliamentary groups, to the concerted functioning of Western financiers with the IMF. They act almost as one network and, if we would like to express ourselves more freely, gradually but persistently strangle Serbia and its citizens and economy. In this context, I repeat, the central role in further borrowing is the IMF. For example, it is known that Serbia signed a three-year arrangement with the IMF in April 2009. We are convinced, and you will see something later and that some of your colleagues are not hiding it, because as economists, they cannot deny this economic truth, that this arrangement will have major negative effects on Serbian health, agriculture, social giving, education and state institutions in general. Besides, it's not hidden by IMF officials either. For example, the deputy IMF Executive Board, Mr. Portugal, which is in an interview with one of our six-papers. Seventy-seven. In 2009, he sincerely stated what the real intentions of the IMF towards Serbia were, despite the clear fact that the economic crisis hit Serbia and especially its poorest citizens, pensioners, people in need of medication and treatment, students, students and their parents. The fact was also recognised by the Serbian Deputy Prime Minister, an education economist, in a statement on a daily list of 10. Seventy-seven. In 2009, when he said "the IMF made a cardinal mistake when he proposed a 20% reduction in wages in Latvia, leading to a dramatic 18% drop in GDP in this country. “ To this, of course, we add the aforementioned statement by the IMF executive director, who has now requested, in this crisis time, and who claims that it is the right time for reforms in Serbian health, education and pension systems. Of course, all of these conditions, if they were met, would lead to a collapse in our economy, health and education, a collapse that happened in Latvia, which is otherwise a member of the European Union so desired. However, in order for this not to happen in Serbia, additional borrowing is needed for other Western creditors, not for the IMF. But unfortunately for all of us, both for you and for us and for the citizens of Serbia, this can only be achieved with the permission of the International Monetary Fund. So Serbia is essentially in a financial circle that has no way out. The following economic data show this concerted operation of Western finance or the interdependence of loans provided by the IMF, the World Bank, the European Investment Bank and Western banks operating in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. I'll give you a few specific examples. Membership in the World Bank, you must know, is conditioned by membership in the IMF. Of course, the United States in the World Bank, as well as the IMF, has the highest quota of about 16%. Basically, the World Bank finances education with its loans and helps health care. In addition, the draft law confirming the loan agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the World Bank is also called – additional financing of the health project. So that's exactly what areas we can say are destroying the IMF's terms. Also, the World Bank is in debt on the international financial market, and then adds a rate of 0.75% and a fee of 1%, according to the definition of the book "International Economy", which is also used at the Faculty of Economics in Belgrade, and so on, in essence, in practice, the World Bank and the IMF together earn money on debtors such as Serbia. In particular, the loan we are considering today states: "The borrower will pay interest per rate equal to the interbank interest rate for the interest rate increased for the variable interest rate". This is Article 2. The loan agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the World Bank. Basically, the IMF, to express myself a little more freely, creates a problem in economics, health care and education, and the World Bank solves it by lending to these areas, of course, at high interest. It's this system that works in practice itself. We must admit that it is almost a genius system, but unfortunately it is just being applied to poor countries, such as the Republic of Serbia. In order to justify this exploitation of the debtors or the parasitic functioning of these institutions, the World Bank has been awarded a high credit rating, and you certainly know that. She gets more favourable loans than those she would get from Serbia with her credit rating if she directly owed to Western banks. So again, one kind of vicious financial circle. Similar unholy purposes include organizations that act as components of the World Bank. For example, the International Development Association provides loans to education, health and state institutions, again from areas most affected by IMF conditions. The international financial corporation approves loans to the private sector, buys enterprises from public debtors and deals with lending interventions. Reconnected institutions. Reconnected targets. How in Serbia and who are in practice granted these loans is clear when it takes into account the information the institution invested in Serbia in 2006, among other things, in foreign banks and firms such as Rajfhaisen and Tigar-Mischelin holding. Another organisation is connected to the World Bank – the International Investment Guarantee Agency, which deals with training of people in debt countries in relation to foreign investments, is again the definition of this textbook, or in practice, by selling domestic enterprises. It also deals with improving the image of debtor countries and political risks. What does that have to do with the economy? It's not clear. Also, other than the World Bank and the monitoring organisations, they have a coherent policy with the IMF and these well-intentioned so-called "IMF". European banks. So, it's these banks whose loans we're having today. For example, the European Investment Bank, founded in 1957, based in Luxembourg, also provides loans to put out the fires created by the IMF's conditions in the field of health and education, and we have seen, in the area of "help for small and medium-sized enterprises". More specifically, to be specific: the IMF with its conditions leads to a GDP decline of, say, about 18%, like in Latvia, and unemployment from 20 to 30%, as it was in this Baltic country, and then so on. European banks lend loans to small and medium-sized enterprises. However, the completely logical and justified issue will be – how will these small and medium-sized enterprises, for example, in that country similar to ours, sell their products if GDP falls by five billion euros and jobs lose several hundred thousand people? Of course, the European Investment Bank, as well as most of the previously-numbered institutions, collects interest that is mostly greater than marketable, it is again stated, not our claim, in the "International Economy" textbook. In particular, in this draft law that we are considering today, in a contract with the European Investment Bank, it states: "The interest will be calculated at the annual rate and the relevant interbank rate plus 2%. “ Also, the European Investment Bank mainly requires that approved loans be financed by the debtors, worth 50%. Similarly, in this loan we are considering today, if I am not mistaken, worth more than 12m euros. So, when we have all this in mind, the debtor, if he doesn't have his resources in practice, must be further in charge of other members of this network of Western creditors or the project financed by the European Investment Bank will fail. This should be added that, in the same way as in the case of the World Bank loan that we are considering today, the European Investment Bank is seeking an open international tender for the purchase of equipment, which will be conducted in the same way as in the World Bank's case in accordance with the internal rules of the Bank. More specifically, in accordance with an act entitled ‘Leader for the procurement of the European Investment Bank’. In this context, like in the case of a World Bank loan, it is mildly said, there will be no surprise if the European Investment Bank forces companies from Western Europe to the detriment of Serbians. In addition, the loan agreement is so unfair and from the legal point of view the parties are so uneven that it is even envisaged in this contract that the state secretaries of the Republic of Serbia, advisers of ministers and officials have an obligation to report all project irregularities and that the competent authorities and the borrower's agent report it to the borrower, meaning, the European Investment Bank. But, on the other hand, there is no such obligation for the borrower, the European Investment Bank and its employees. So, in the European banks, according to this contract, there are no corrupt people, there is no corruption, and their employees are somewhere on the level of Nie's superhumans. What is the truth about this crisis, which has been best mentioned for almost two years, has been affecting almost the whole world and whose causes are precisely in corruption in the banking sector, more precisely in greed and malversions that have been going on there for decades. That it is a concerted operation of Western banks, which apparently does not just see the government in the Republic of Serbia, shows the following example. The European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, another so-called European Bank, whose headquarters is in London, reportedly the main purpose of helping Central and Eastern European countries, agrees again with those institutions, with the work of the World Bank and the International Financial Corporation. Of course, this is the information from this previously mentioned textbook and of course in this so-called. The European Bank again has a dominant position as a shareholder. In Serbia, this said bank invested money again in foreign banks, "Sosite General". or she bought stakes in the few remaining Serbian banks such as the Commercial Bank. Also, you know that accepting the IMF's conditions is a prerequisite for co-operation with the so-called "IMF". The Paris Club of Trustees and that the Member States of the Paris Club require that the debtor country must have an active co-operation programme with the International Monetary Fund again. It's a similar situation when it comes to the London Club, which represents a group of private creditors' business banks. In the same way, according to the International Economy textbook, the London Club is most often coordinating its activities with the International Monetary Fund. So, ladies and gentlemen, from above, it can be concluded, freely speaking, that the IMF has a role as a bad cop in this network of Western creditors. The IMF imposes conditions that destroy the economy and society of a country, unfortunately, in this case the Republic of Serbia. So the Serbian economy, society and state are heading towards a complete economic downturn due to the conditions imposed by the IMF. You also saw the statements of the Serbian Deputy Prime Minister who cited what happened about this. But in order to avoid the total collapse of good cops, like the World Bank and so on. European banks and other Western creditors will provide new loans for Serbia's survival and its economy. In this way, these new loans that we are considering today worth 350m euros should also be viewed. In essence, ladies and gentlemen, so the agony of the Serbian economy and the state will just continue until these facts are understood by people who are today leading the Serbian state and the economy and until they reject a kind of dogma about well-intentioned trusts from the IMF and so on. European banks, for the Serbian economy for the state, will not have better times. Finally, as regards the 90m-euro budget deficit loan, the following questions are also asked: who will bear the costs of the so-called. The rate of one percent of the amount of credit? It's not a small sum, it's a sum of about 900,000 euros. The following question is also asked – on the basis of what criteria does the Republic of Serbia owe itself to Western banks in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, which have already shown that they work unprofessionally, I use the mildest expression, on the Serbian financial market? Some of these banks, with which the Republic of Serbia should sign a loan agreement, have retroactively increased the margins for our citizens. In that sense, the National Bank of Serbia said in its report that it used recommendations to convince Western banks to operate according to market rules. However, these very Western banks have taken advantage of this vague and undecided stance of the National Bank of Serbia and have retroactively increased margins and earned on citizens of the Republic of Serbia, without any sanctions from the National Bank of Serbia, without any sanctions from the government of the Republic of Serbia. These margins are, it's public data, on loans that are already being paid up from 0.75% to 2.5%. As I have already said, among them is one of the three banks with which the Serbian government concludes a budget deficit coverage contract. Of course, there are already very familiar banks in the SRS, Bank of Intez, Raiffeisen and Hypo-Alpe-Adria. Instead of introducing new laws that would further tax these banks or punish them for such procedures, authorities, similar to the Delta monopoly, do not even show verbal courage to solve these problems. That is why we are confident, ladies and gentlemen, that the government does not have the power to find these 350,000 euros that we are discussing today elsewhere, through additional taxation of Delta and some of its monopoly, or/and through additional taxation of Western banks that are unprofessionally operating in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Of course, it would also be the responsibility of the authorities to receive loans through serious negotiations with the Russian Federation that will not be conditioned, such as loans from the IMF.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-21-0.u24815	The word has the People's MP Zoran Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-21-0.u24816	Dear citizens of Serbia, I want to inform you that it is currently 2140 hours, and since the delayed transmission will start at midnight, those few who can't really sleep will have a chance to see this somewhere at twenty-five. So much for the democracy of working in this Parliament and the general system, some logical framework by which this ruling coalition works. But we'll continue our work tomorrow at 10:00 in the morning, no matter what we have to do at home, and then we'll be at around 1:00 in the morning, and then you'll have a chance to watch us keep working on a direct broadcast at 10 in the morning. I would like to inform you immediately, Madam Minister, that on behalf of the DSS, I have submitted one amendment, so we will have the opportunity to apologize once more nicely about a brilliant and truly productive economic policy that you are conducting. So, we're talking here today about three laws, a loan agreement, additional financing of health, along with the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, then a bill to confirm a financial agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank and the National Bank of Serbia, anex loans for small and medium-sized enterprises and a bill on the borrowing of the Republic of Serbia at the "Alpha Bank", "Vojvodjanska Banka", and "Pireus Banka". Now, what's interesting, the last three or four sessions we have very massive agendas, very important laws, are being discussed for a very long time, and as a rule, the last points of the agenda where we, as a state, are showing up. The intention of those who think they can cover up the adverse effects of such proposals is to discuss some other topics, and to pass these laws at a small door that really harm our country. So, you've listed the positive effects of these loans here, but why should we trust you? Why would anyone trust you? If we've been meeting here regularly for two or three months, when we've been discussing both the budget and budget rebalancing, when you're defending the budget, you're laughing, but I'm aware that your role, with all due respect for your expertise, can't argue, nor do I want to, but your ministry is obviously in this government of the stats, you're a flow water heater for a very harmful policy that drags this country to the bottom in a financial, economic and economic sense. I don't think your responsibility is the biggest, but I think it's extremely large, because, if anything else, you're standing in that business because the draft budget behind which the finance minister stands, you said then that GDP growth would be 3.5%, we told you it wouldn't be. The famous meeting in Kopalnik, in the most expensive suits, as if it were a G8 meeting, said GDP would be zero growth. That's when it was known to be unrealistic. You came here with budget rebalancing, so you agreed with the IMF that the GDP drop would be 2.5%, although even then the economic indicators showed that the decline would be at least 6%. Now you'll be in a position to give us one rebalancing again. Why would they trust me with anything, because all projections are unrealistic. It says here there will be money for small and medium-sized enterprises. Look, when a small or medium-sized businessman acted like you did this year, he not to lose a part of the market, he would fall out of this market permanently, because in business and in business, when you make such bad projections lose jobs, the market is lost, certain consequences are carried out. You're the only one who doesn't carry the consequences. It's time to admit that you weren't able to lead this country in the right direction, that your estimates are absolutely unrealistic and that's why you have to pay the political price. It is better to resign and you, first and then the entire government, so let's go to new elections, and let the citizens say who can run this country better and who is more aware of what the state of this country is, than if I were a people, most likely in the fall, and at the latest in the spring, says what they think of you in a very unpopular way. So, this is your most well-intentioned advice, and I'll see you when we talk about the amendment to these laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-21-0.u24817	The word is Vladan Jeremic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-21-0.u24818	It is a good opportunity, even in some mornings, that the public should once again be exposed to some economic policy led by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, because here by who knows which times and this assembly council should approve of the additional borrowing of the state, I would say to the citizens, however, with skill, first of all, media manipulation, the public is presented with quite different data, which highlights certain things that absolutely have nothing to do with reality. In theory and practice, we see the following, and you could hear from the extremely reasoned presentation of counterpart Dejan Mirovic, so I'll just try to support some more figures. Mrs Dragutinović, who is present here, could say if any of this is not true. So, according to all the analyses of the responsibility of the Republic of Serbia, it all shows that in the area of foreign debt, extremely negative tendencies have emerged, which are primarily reflected in this enormous increase in the country's absolute amount of foreign debt and in increasing the country's debt rate. This means practically that the country could fall into a serious debt crisis in the coming period, which could have negative effects on Serbia's fallen economy anyway. So, in order not to bid, economists are well-known, but for the sake of the public, there are several indicators, parameters to calculate the degree of duty of a country. According to some of the most commonly used, according to the quantitative foreign debt and GDP ratio, the percentage of debt ranges between 60% and 70% in Serbia. The degree of Serbian debt, measured by the quantitative ratio of debt and exports, looks like this: in 2003, the debt was 3.11 times the export of goods and services in that year, in 2004 - 2.78 times, in 2005 - 2.34, in 2006 - 2.28, which is all above the border for high-indebted countries, according to the World Bank's criteria, and by the choice of "Global Development Finance", Serbia is indeed classified in very in charge of countries, along with Bulgaria, Brazil, Croatia, Turkey, Kazakhstan and so on. What is the problem is the fact that the volume and dynamics of foreign assets in Serbia have been significantly lower in recent years and can be seen through this accumulated surplus of financial transactions and an increase in net external debt. So, in 2006, Serbia's external debt, expressed in dollars, increased by 81% compared to 2000, and expressed in euros by 28%, while foreign debt increased by 142% compared to 2000 and expressed in euro by 53%. The inflow from foreign sources is absorbed through the balance of payments deficits, and the high accumulated surplus of financial transactions in Serbia is due from 2000 to 2007 to just increased use of medium- and long-term foreign loans and inflows of net foreign direct investment. Serbia's internal debt increased from $10 billion to $830 million in 2000 to $26 million in 2007, and you know that after these latest IMF arrangements and what I was talking about at the beginning of this additional borrowing, it is certain that the figure exceeds all $30 billion. What I would like to point out especially this time, which is what my colleague Mirovic was talking about, is a problem that lies exactly at the height of this private sector debt, which was almost negligible in 2000, so that in 2007, it would reach $17 billion and $ 195 million, and a story and relationship that has a private sector debt does not pose any major problem for our economy absolutely does not stand and drink water. Because when the time comes for payment, there can always be a problem of debt service by the state and the burden of payment may fall, in the extreme line, on all citizens, as has already been mentioned in the 1983 case, at the time of this major debt crisis and the federal government of Milka Planinc, when a private debt has been transferred to the burden of the state. So, the private sector debt, on the contrary, is a bigger problem in the SRS' view because its structure is unfavourable in the financial sector segment, the debt of the banking sector is a small part, and the majority is related to licking. So we're in charge of buying goods, equipment and other things, which means that the private sector is not in debt abroad to invest in production and speed up economic activity, but for quite other reasons. Under the conditions of high duty, when the time comes to pay off debts to the economy, there remains too much burden to be delivered to the abroad of goods and services for payment of debts over a longer period of time. In such a situation, spending in the country is reduced, labour earnings are reduced, raw materials are exhausted. This is exactly the picture Serbia is in today. It may take a few years, but when it crosses a certain line, then the economy completely dies down and reduces the resources from which the debts are paid and hence our fearsome but realistic fear, which we expressed during today's discussion, and regarding these three laws that are in the congregation procedure today. So, Serbia's economic growth in the period covered by the analysis refers to this period of these famous democratic changes to date, characterised by lower growth rates compared to foreign inflow rates and an increase in the country's debt over the observed period. It is clear that foreign funds are not sufficiently allocated to production that can ensure economic growth, therefore, one completely wrong policy and therefore should not be surprised why this foreign debt has been increased. And because of all the other problems facing both states and citizens, and related to one generally poor economic policy, therefore, credit borrowing policy, which, as I have already said, creates only a bad business, or economic environment in the country for a longer period of time. What we are talking about today, as well as what has already been said, so also about the latest loan, or the IMF arrangement, is just an additional tightening of the noose around the neck, and there are no optimistic statements related to the increase of the budget deficit, i.e. an announcement of an increase in VAT. We'll see what gets us all. That's what it's all about from day to day, the ever-lower standard of living for the largest number of Serbian citizens, and the problem is that no one is responsible for everything that has been done in this period. It seems to me that only God can protect us if he hasn't given up on us.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-21-0.u24819	National MP Miroslav Petkovic has a word, 13 minutes left with your parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-21-0.u24820	Dear Mrs Dragutinović, ladies and gentlemen, MPs from the SPS in absentia, PUPS in absentia, G17 plus in absentia, LSV in absentia, SPO MPs in absentia and distinguished colleagues from the DS, you ten who attend this debate. Dear citizens of Serbia, good morning. Mrs Dragutinović, tonight I won't remind you of how many times you've broken the budget system law and don't be angry about it, nobody's nice when they're angry, so neither are you, and the DSS MPs are certainly the least they want to do is make a new wrinkle on your face, but I have to remind you that all your judgments have been wrong so far, absolutely everything. Spending privatisation incomes and borrowing abroad for the medium and longer term do not solve Serbia's problems, but only delay them. Why didn't you reduce the expenditures you increased by the rebalance of last year's budget by longer or medium term? Mrs Dragutinovic, you simply cannot be trusted, but tell the citizens of Serbia whether you will reduce pensions and profits in the public sector. You can nod your head, you can do it resolutely, there's no reaction, we'll wait until this debate is over. Silence can also mean approval. Thank you, colleague. The flow of money into the Republic of Serbia's budget is significantly lower. According to data released, revenues amount to 280 billion dinars, which means some 45 billion dinars are missing in the Republic of Serbia's budget. It's logical to ask the question -- how do you plan to solve the deficit problem in the budget? Is that how you're gonna beg someone for 10 million, someone for 15 million, someone for 20 million? We believe that this is completely unserious and that this will not cover a huge black hole in the Republic of Serbia's budget. Certainly, the worst solution is the additional borrowing of the state abroad and the domestic financial market. That's what the DSS MPs tell you, but that's what the governor of the NBS tells you. Don't look at me so strangely. You have information about February 2009. Mr. Jelasic said something just like that. What's worse than this is when you're in debt, you're pushing all that money into consumption. Is that right? That's right. You don't have to nod, but the fact is that all that money, all that money goes directly into consumption, and what hurts is the fact that you can close your eyes, you can shut it down, is that these loans and these loans, and billions need someone to pay back. With a government like this and with you headed by the Ministry of Finance, we'll pass like a mouse in the hardware store. Citizens of Serbia, good morning to you, and to you, Minister and President of the Assembly, good night.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-21-0.u24821	Thank you, Mr. Petkovic. Good night. Lydia Dimitrijevic has a word. Here you go, Mrs. Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-21-0.u24822	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are witnessing that no session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia can be held on the agenda without a few draft laws on confirming a financial contract or some loan agreement being found. Almost every project that begins this government is based on borrowing, on taking credit that future generations will have to repay. Here, at this session on the agenda are three draft laws that Serbia is creating for itself, worth 350m and 500,000 euros. The first two draft laws relate one to projects related to small and medium-sized enterprises, and the other to additional financing of health projects. The third bill refers to the debt of the Republic of Serbia to finance the budget deficit and to refinance the debt of the Republic of Serbia of 90m euros. A budget rebalance was adopted in April and a budget deficit of 20,517 billion dinars, higher than the initially planned amount from the end of last year, so the planned deficit is now 70,5 billion dinars. In doing so, the deficit of consolidated public spending, including mandatory social security funds, local self-government budgets and AP Vojvodina, is planned to be 90 billion dinars. The Serbian authorities also agreed on a new arrangement with the IMF. It's a three-billion-euro loan to boost foreign reserves and a more favourable position with increditors. The rebalance of the budget also adopted laws that the government has presented as measures to mitigate the negative effects of the global economic crisis. The reduction of expenditure by 65.4 billion dinars is foreseen by savings to be achieved by reducing discretionary expenditures, such as fixed costs, contract services, maintenance costs, subsidies, capital expenditures, budget loans, the reduction of local self-government transfers, as well as the freezing of pensions in this year and the temporary reduction of salaries to public employees and state administration. As far as the revenue side is concerned, if the budget is increased, the excise duties on oil derivatives and tobacco processing have been increased, a special tax on mobile phone impulses has been introduced, increased registration fees for motor vehicles of over 2,000 cubic metres, up to three and a half times. The problems with the inflow of funds in the budget are evident. The government, which otherwise has no problem in debting excessively, has decided to also be in charge of financing the budget deficit, as I have already said, for 90m euros. I believe this move is an expression of hypocrisy and in the best way it shows that this government does not work in the interests of citizens. I never say anything without an argument. The arguments for this provide the authority itself. Also, at almost all meetings of the National Assembly, by regularly adopting laws establishing new bodies, various agencies and various regulatory bodies. Instead of rationalising the state apparatus, new employment is being done massively. I only mention some of the numerous bodies established in the last few months -- the Traffic Safety Agency, the Chemical Agency, the municipal police. The adoption of the regional development law entails the establishment of national and regional agencies, councils, district associations, all of which makes one huge placement of the civil apparatus. The absurd view is that representatives of the Serbian authorities are constantly saying they will stop new employment in the state administration and public enterprises, and on the other hand, laws are constantly passed that form para-state bodies that serve exclusively to provide the merits of party personnel. That's what I'm saying because there are already legal state bodies that are doing their job. The government is making some new para-state body, agency, council, or something else, and it deals with the same affairs as the regulatory state authority. All the stories of the government's intentions to reduce public spending fall into the water. Serbian citizens have the right to know where their money is going, but I don't know if any of the citizens will hear what we're talking about now, because this will be broadcast tonight around three or four hours, when most citizens, which is normal, sleeps.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-21-0.u24823	Mr. Petkovic, you wanted to replicate, there is no basis for replication, education tells me when you say - president good night, that I tell you the same thing. (Miroslav Petkovic, from the post: How about the Rules of Procedure, then? Here you go. Just re-apply.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-21-0.u24824	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Art. 27 and 104. The Honorable President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, my background, education and education does not allow me to speak to you in this way tonight and to tell you what I would really like to say, because of the citizens of Serbia and the distinguished colleagues who sit late at night during this debate. You can tell that "good night" to your grandchildren, and you'll let me declare as a people's chooser to you as president of the National Assembly, the first among the equals in this assembly, everything I want. Believe me, my youth and my energy in relation to you can only be my advantage, and you will see for yourself in the coming period. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-21-0.u24825	Mr. MP, you're both young and energetic, and I listen to your participation in the debate and I very much respect everything you say, and I don't want to comment on how I say to my grandchild with the greatest love, when we part ways and what I say to him, but simply, you said good night to me, Mr. President. My answer was only identical, not because it's too late, not because I have no energy, not because I'm not as young as you, but because I simply respect you. If you've figured it out differently, I'm sorry, but if you're talking to me one way, let me have an egal relationship so I can answer you too. I don't think youth gives you any advantages other MPs don't have here, and I fully agree with you that I'm the first among the equals. Mr. Dragan Shormaz has a word. Your task force has nine and a half minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-21-0.u24826	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, good morning. Madam Minister, at first, it's not good to compare yourself with better than yourself. When you argued with former Minister Ilic and with Mr Tomislav Nikolic, you said - all previous authorities were in charge. Look at the results of the work of the first government of Vojislav Kostunica and you will see that this government has owed Serbia, unlike you who is in charge, which was by repaying loans, earlier debts from privatisation revenues, which, by writing down, through successful negotiations, by the London and Paris Club of Trustees, were indeed huge debts to these institutions and, of course, more successful business work, much better than today. In addition, with your government in Serbia, the average salary is lower by 70 euros compared to what was at the time of the government of Vojislav Kostunica. You guys talk about what you're doing right now. I will talk about two laws and debt waiting for Serbia thanks to this most incompetent government in Serbia's history of parliamentaryism. First in charge of small and medium-sized enterprises, I'm sorry that the esteemed fellow in the SPS isn't here, I really respect the man and he knows it very well, and much I know about the economy I've learned in a lot of conversations with him, it's about an experienced man who's been working at Simpa for many years, and it's often about small and medium-sized enterprises as something that's not part of a system. It is known that small and medium-sized enterprises are essentially working, whether it is production, whether it is services for large systems, whether for business, industrial systems, whether for trade, whether for agriculture in our country, whether for the tobacco industry, whether for the furniture industry, such as Simpo and others, were for the metal complex, U.S. still, Sartid, or for the car industry that we once had, which was called the flag from Kragujevac. Today we can't have small and medium-sized enterprises working for the flag from Kragujevac because the flag was turned into a small company by your government. She's a Fiato's little company because she's making cars for Fiat and she's a Fiat's little company, not a car industry anymore. That's a fact. Gentlemen, which of the small and medium-sized enterprises will now work for Jelizara Smederovska? If we're watching the RTS journal, then it's great, seven days ago, the first news in the journal was that she started working at the Modern Iron. This means that a metal complex in Serbia will be revived, because without it, a metal complex cannot work, everyone knows that, at least not seriously. Do you know what the Smederian Iron is doing? He's got a 70,000-ton deal by the end of the year. Do you know what that is? That's 3% capacity, two million is capacity. Do you know how much, when your colleague Dusko Matkovic led Sartid, at the time of the sanctions, Smederjevska Jelizara produced? Seven hundred thousand tons, ten times more than this year's U.S. still. And you put it as the first news in the journal. How can you not be ashamed? How long will you deceive Serbian citizens? Just because they don't know about Uzica, about Subotica doesn't mean they don't know about Smedereva. At that time, in 2004, Smederevo was fourth on Serbia's salaries. It was just Belgrade, Novi Sad and Panchevo outside. The government of Vojislav Kostunica in Serbia was then in power, and the DSS in Smederev. Did you know that 300 small and medium-sized enterprises in Smedereva since New Year's Eve have been closed so far? Do you know about this information? Who are you going to give credit to? Who's going to compete? For this little farm that's left, why didn't you bring down these companies, possibly what they're connected to and what they're doing? Second thing, this deficit cover loan, where's it going? When are we gonna see that money? When are you going to file a report on where they're going? I've seen one very interesting thing, in a dangerous situation for the state, you're very dangerous as the most incompetent government for this country, I'm going to give you an example of an attack on the gendarmes in Bujanovac. What happened? The president of the state, the interior minister and the military minister went there immediately the next day. First went the president of the state and the interior minister dressed in some uniforms, those desert colors. What's with the desert paint uniforms? Where did the president of the state get that uniform? Who gave it to him? How was that bought? How was it seduced that he was given that uniform? He and Dacic were dressed as well. What will the Serbian police want with the desert uniform, in Bujanovac, where everything is green? On that day, they were clay pigeons for any terrorist, to take them down whenever they wanted a sniper, so when they showed up in that greenery. Did they buy some supplies from the Americans left over from Iraq and Afghanistan, so they showed up in those uniforms there? How was the uniform in which Boris Tadic appeared? Did he give the money to buy it or was it donated? Is that what you do today when there's a crisis? They were welcomed by gendarmes in full war equipment, helmets, vests, etc. They have to be people, they know they're in dangerous territory. They were surrounded by everyone at the time. That's when the terrorists could throw us a truck of guns because they had to watch out and they sent a message that they were dangerous guys. What happened two days after that? The attack on civilians and the Presevo bombing. It's not done when someone attacks our gendarmes, then there go people no one recognizes, not the president of the state and the interior minister. My colleague, Riza Halimi, said it yesterday. It's an incompetent and irresponsible government that's costing this country a lot and will cost it even more, and you're just borrowing and borrowing and spending your money meaninglessly.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-21-0.u24827	Mr. Paja Momchilov has a word. You have 19 minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-21-0.u24828	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the sad ones, and tonight I will sit. He can't have this home when he's working like this to be a decent home and to pay his due respects. Last night, as much as last night, I said that today we unfortunately attend the twilight of Serbian parliamentaryism, and here tonight I am quite free to say that it is total darkness. Not because of repression, not because of ridiculous situations, where we see ministers leaving their post in a fast race, not answering questions. Someone, it's quite clear, said step on the opposition, no one will blame you in the competent place, the competent place is not in Serbia, unfortunately it's somewhere else. That's not the problem. What's the problem? Why is it dark? Because today you have complete symbiosis between the executive and the legislative authority in the opposition, and it is so obvious and clear that this parliament no longer represents an instrument that controls and controls this power, but there is a strange symbiosis. Params of European citizens traveled to Canada by a delegation of this parliament and, behold, they attended a session of the Canadian Parliament, there was a debate, and, indeed, there was a lot of chatter, speech, pitching, up to the outpouring of the unusual mood of MPs. It is Europe, and the world and parliament, not repression. But, well, we live in it now. If I were to return to the topic, it would be better than to give a sermon, it would be of no use to either of us in the opposition or to the Serbian people. You see the empty lines, right, the two complete parts of this building are completely empty, three, come on, somebody says three, it's three, and in these other parts, some just, right, an MP who's probably on duty, and he's rich in opposition because we want to say, we're making a certain contribution to these bill proposals that we're offered to be accepted. We have three laws that need our country to be in debt. It's nothing new, we've been in debt before. It's only a matter of a moment, and what's it gonna get us? That's something that's interesting. The Minister is absolutely competent. With her to lead, it would be funny, conversations and dialogues, but as a layman, it's perfectly clear to me that the global global crisis is breaking over the back of small countries, small peoples. It's clear to me that the dinar course has left since September. It's clear to me that industrial production has fallen well. It's clear to me that our exports are going well. It is clear to me that the projected GDP will not be achieved to the extent that you wanted, and it is clear to me that when I read that 30 billion dollars is already on our backs, that we do not define how and why, and in 2000 it was about 10 billion. That's the reality of this moment that we live in and these are the numbers that the economists tell us to laymen. Of course, the disaster will be bigger because there is no inflow of direct investment. The World Bank tells the world at meetings that there will be a fall in direct investment and that is reality. You say you need to borrow, and the World Bank, the IMF, are your partners. You're talking to them. My fellow SRS parties, I think, well presented both of these institutions, and as a doctor, let me quote that in one English journal, the prominent British Medical Journal, when it was a series of articles on the World Bank and on health projects, it was written for that institution, said one English woman, it's a respected scientific worker: the World Bank is the institution that takes in rich countries from the poor to allow rich people to be richer. It's said in England. How true is you level it yourself. She's a very famous person who said that. I'm going to refer to this health loan. There's only one thing in my head, one idea, people's idea. The people say this - when times are hard, don't take what you don't have to, so tomorrow you don't have to get into a terrible situation that you won't be able to take what you have to survive. It's a dark night, and if you go through Belgrade, you watch people looking for food in containers, not other things. It's a dark night, and in the day when the streets of Belgrade are crossed by people who work. You criticized it during Milosevic's time fiercely, and now people are struggling to survive, to provide bread crusts and this way. It's a reality. The reality is when the Health Committee gets to the patient’s letter, writes his sister and asks for a meeting with the president of the Health Committee, naive, thinking that something the president of the Committee can help her and gives her a prescription for the medicine that this patient has to take, is a difficult patient, and gives his check, where it is seen that the price of the medicine exceeds the amount of retirement. Then the Serbian law says the treatment of infectious diseases is free of charge. We have a strategy on combating tuberculosis, and that's what Serbia is for you today. A few weeks ago, the European Centre for Peace and Development maintained its, I don't know, summer school of health management. I had a chance to be a lecturer with six interesting people. He was Mr. Ola Vori of Finland, an expert in health organisation, Mr. current Montenegrin Minister Radunovic, was Ivanic of Republika Srpska, a current living expert, Djordje Jakovljevic. We gave lectures this year at that school. The topic was – the economic crisis and how to get out of it. The whole world is discussing how to get out of the economic crisis, not to be long, the message was, we all agreed, you don't ask for money, there won't be money. That money you get can cost you a lot tomorrow. What did we tell the healthcare workers? I was talking about preserving reproductive health. That was the darkness. I said – do what we are not and what we can, and that is promotion and prevention of disease with cheap bone-benefit measures. That's what the executive government here is like in the cabinet where you're sitting, doesn't understand, doesn't know and won't apply, and will at the time of the greatest global crisis, which didn't hit us with a full bar when it comes to health care, to take credit intensively. Just to remind you, we recently took loans to rebuild clinical centres, now we're taking credit for some information system. I'm surprised to you, Madam Minister, that you're a serious woman, certainly a good expert, that you can defend in this way, layishly, you economist, the need to take credit for health care. What's with all the courage? It seems that you too have Googled in this conflict between the ruling factors of our country, so you don't mind trying to convince us that this is in the interest of the Serbian people. If a man reads the explanation you gave, it is previously said to be part of a project called the Health Project and that this project has contributed to some of the things in our country, of course it has contributed, of course, that the money that has been spent certainly has brought well-being, and let's say at point 2, you say the reconstruction and rehabilitation of four general hospitals in the King, Valjev, Vranja and Zrenjanin. This project was only successful in Valjev. This project is not finished in the King, there's the director of moaning and crying and moaning and asking for additional funds. It's not done in Vranje, it's changed the project. So this is a bad example of misinformation, why you're misinformed, we know, I'm a doctor, I'm in Valjev's advisor and I work at the Valjev hospital, I operate, I know the situation. Now, you say, and that should be crucial to convince us, Madam Minister, during the implementation of the project there was a need to provide additional funding. What does that mean, "need"? That means the project wasn't realistically planned. Has anyone ever done an evaluation? Where's that evaluation? What's the need? Then it is said below – and to achieve the objectives originally envisaged. Then he says, and he's doing a health care project in an extended range. What does that mean? If you say here that this money, this 10.5m euros, you're counting the taxing five things that are supposed to be done. There is the first introduction of an information network that will allow for the integration of 400 healthcare institutions. Nice. Then these others are some list stuff I wouldn't count on, this is the only numerical given, and that's the only thing a man can get hold of. Since 2000, Serbian health has been suffering from projects. Projects are killing Serbian health care. If you go to the Ministry of Health site, you'll see the completed projects 39, working at the moment 37. There are famous projects on the €5.5m transfusion, and another 2m euros, so we discussed the law here last night, the money came back, two and a few million, and there's something going on and it's not clear yet, and it's about the transfusion. With these realized projects, two of them are interesting for this story. Here, one is called Functional Analysis of the Health Information System in Serbia. Which doesn't allow for that functional analysis. He doesn't have to do everything. At least give us references where we can look, look for it, or give us copies. Just to say what Serbia has from the information system, to count what is available from hardware, software. You're talking about the integration information system. Who are you integrating? We assume this is a country that has 140 and a few thousand health workers, has 35,000 private workers. You want to include the private sector so you can have complete data. You don't say anything about that. You treat us like we don't have a brain, like we're not thinking people, you just write felts, general places, and you want us to trust you. The shame will be my honourable fellow MPs who will raise their hands for this without the belief that it is in the interest of both their children and their parents and the Serbian people. But that's the kind of time. Another project that has been completed has been the development of a health information system for basic pharmaceutical services. It says here that 3.3m euros have gone. What does the real situation look like? No one in Serbia can tell you how much money has been spent on the information system so far. We know that hardware and software have been purchased for the Republic Health Insurance Institute, for its branches, that they are networked, and that hardware and software have been purchased for Batut, and for the institutes and institutions that exist. If they're networked, no one knows what the software is, and no one knows it. These four hospitals you listed, it's loans purchased equipment and you can't catch anyone else's money spent. When journalists ask Mr. Minister, I have his answer, he says, we spent 3.3m euros on this. Zrenjanin holds a ceremony promotion, Zrenjanin is one of the centres where this information joy was held and there they say fourm euros. One story, the other story, and it's known, it's promised. Time is a stormy fellow, and what you throw away, it's a shame. The fact that the chairman does not warn you is her shame. I don't mind. We're used to it, and we're googled. Madam Radeta, please don't throw it away. They bring me, Madam Chairman, to me that it's time. I hear I'm many years old. It doesn't matter. I apologize for harassing you and talking to you, but I'm not talking to you, don't be angry, I'm talking to the citizens of Serbia, I'm talking about my child, I'm talking about the Serbian people... (President: Mr. Momchilov, thank you. I'm not finished, I'm sorry. (President: It's been 19 minutes. It's been a while? I'm sorry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-21-0.u24829	Mr. Dimitrievich, you have a word, two and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-21-0.u24830	Madam Minister, I'll only talk about one of these loan proposals, the health loan. Before this agenda we exchanged a few sentences about this agenda point and you remember what you told me, that you don't know how to defend this. Is that what happened? So, Madam Minister, I expected you to take off this item of the agenda, unfortunately, because of the citizens of Serbia, you didn't do it. Here's a few key things we're dealing with here. So it's clear what's planned for the project. You will see in project two under point (b) of the fight against corruption. Now imagine why the lender insists on that point, the fight against corruption. The minister says that health corruption is a slow thing. You have data from 17 June 2007 that the Serbian state is the fourth in the world to corruption in health and you have agreed to enter this loan. Have you ever been to some key Serbian health facility, say what the Emergency Center is like this time of day, to see what it looks like. It's a real picture of Serbia. Health Minister, this is the fifth term, seven-and-a-half years, the whole job of the health minister is to create an illusion, to reform health care, and to make an illusion is last night's law on public health, which is completely worthless, useless, inapplicable. And what is a real picture - of waiting for life in Serbia's health institutions. It's a shame and there's a responsibility, and when will the responsibility for a minister like this be started? You don't have an answer for that, but you've agreed to take such hard words for him here without having an answer for them. This is a situation in which Serbian health is located. This is the state of the spirit in which our people are located. And you're sitting here with no answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-21-0.u24831	Gentlemen, I'd just like to let you know that there's been a transmission going on for over an hour, and probably when we get home, we'll be able to watch this part. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a joint single search, I ask if the words of the representatives or the president of the parliamentary groups or anyone else who has not used their right under Article 93 want to do so. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) Before I conclude a joint single search, does the representative of the proposing Dr Diana Dragutinovic, the finance minister, want the final word? Yeah. Here you go, Mrs. Dragutinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-21-0.u24832	The Honorable Presidency, honourable MPs, ladies and gentlemen, as a rule MPs of the DSS begin their presentation or discussion with a constant reminder of how many finance ministers have broken the Budget System Act. Afterwards, they start to talk about the quality of projections and finally end up with an economic policy assessment, i.e. the economic policy of the current government, although it is called the economic cycle phase. In the end, they always seek my resignation and remind us of what the government of Vojislav Kostunica left us. That's about the order. I have nothing left to do but remind myself of what has left us in the legacy of the government of Vojislav Kostunica - disrespect for the Law on the Budgetary System; to remind 2004, 2006, 2007, 2008, and that of the government and the Prime Minister who so insists on legalism. If that hadn't been repeated so many times, I wouldn't have said this this time. I really think this is all about institutional legalism. So I don't mind breaking the law when I'm part of the government, but also how it bothers me when someone else is in power. What did the government of Vojislav Kostunica also leave for us? Inherited model of public consumption. What kind of public consumption was that? I have to say very popular. This means that the revenues made from privatisation were used not only, Mr. Shormaz, to pay off debts, but they are, I'm not slow, and I'm not going to say they're not when they are, but they're also used to cover the budget deficit. So despite the already large total consumption, consumption was further stimulated by a very expansional fiscal policy, and so on. procyclic fiscal policy, therefore, very popular. You don't change tax rates and constantly introduce new laws with new and new rights. So overnight public spending of 41-42% becomes consumption of 45% of the social product. Also, Prime Minister Vojislav Kostunica's government has practically reduced this government's room for manoeuvre, because today, when it takes some other medicine not to feel or to feel the consequences of the economic crisis as little as possible, so to speak. Kensian medicine, you have no other chance than to be in charge. I know he's a long friend, and fortunately I know the rules of borrowing. So, you may be in charge of investing, as Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic says, but you may also be in charge of returning some earlier comrades. What you can never allow, and I definitely won't, is to be in charge of repaying interest, because I know very well that it is a trap of borrowing. I remind you that duty is the current, I have already said that, and that the state is not only in debt, the state is in debt. Over the past five months, for which I have the data, the private sector has been decommissioned, and all the increase so-called. public debt is this loan that we took from the IMF is neither a dinar nor a euro spent. The projection, Mr. Shormaz or I don't know who said it, is not my thing. The projections deal with the profession and it doesn't deal with politics. I'd also remind you that there are institutions, brain trusts dealing with projections because they use techniques that neither you nor I know. I used their projections. In July 2008, they said the region, including Serbia, will grow by 5%. Now in this July, for the same year, they said the economy would drop by minus 5%. I hope you're really not serious if you think you can predict better than the profession, I don't think that's the role of politics. Someone was talking about a good Brazil case. I said several times that not only Brazil, the entire Latin America taught Europe and North America how to run economic policy. The fact is that after the crisis, they became smarter, the fact is that the crisis taught them that, in addition to the budget system law and the budget law, there is another law that is unusually important, and what is my vision for those who think I don't have a vision -- to be the law of this Serbia, which is the law on fiscal responsibility. In the end, I end up with Laza Pachu, although the MP who reminded me of the famous finance minister isn't here. Of course, there are facts about Laza Pachu and there is a legend. Legend has it that he was a very strong finance minister. It's undeniable that he was good and it's undeniable that the money was stable at the time. But it's not quite true that he was firm, and especially not on the requests of King Peter, because it can be seen in his budgets, and I've studied them in detail. Laza Pacu in Serbia, which lacked inflation, increased his king's expenditures by more than 25% in a year. So he wasn't exactly silent at the King's request. Also, don't forget that Lazar Pachu was a man whose time Serbia had a deficit and was also a man who introduced the term - a flying debt, which is - you're taking a new one to pay off the old one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-21-0.u24833	Thank you, Mrs. Dragutinović. There's no business opportunity for me to give any word after your exposure. I am concluding a joint single search on the draft laws under points 22, 23 and 24 of the agenda. Since we have conducted a joint single principled search, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the drafts of the law in principle, detail, and generality. Thank you for your cooperation, and we'll continue our work tomorrow at 10:00.
