ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15716	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Second Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs of the people, I find the sitting to be attended by 110 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 91 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. more than one third of the MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Velimir Ilic and Milos Radulovic. According to Article 88(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the President of the National Assembly, Ms Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, has also called for the session to be attended by Aniko Muškonja-Hinrich, State Secretary at the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights. We move to the 1st point of the agenda: – PROPOSITION OF THE DUSCRIMINATIONS (individuals) You have received amendments submitted on the bill by the MPs: Dragan Živkov, Nikola Žutić, Srboljub Živanovic, Boris Aleksić, joint MPs Milos Aligrudić, Donko Tomić and Zeljko Tomić, joint MPs Milos Aligrudić, Nikola Lazić, Donka Banić, Veroljub Arsić, Milan Avramović and Željko Tomić, joint MPs Milos Aligrudić, Željko Tomić and Donka Banović and Aleksandar Pejčić, joint MPs Zoran Arsenović, Veroljubar Arsić, Milan Avramović, Dragan Acić, Zoran Babimić, Zoran Babimić, Zoran Babić, joint MPs Donka Banović, Miloš Radulović, Miloš Radulović and Aleksandar Pejić and Aleksandar Pejčić, together national envoys and Aleksanda Mr. On the basis of Article 148(2), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Legislative Committee rejected the amendment of the People's Parliament, Aleksandra Ilic, to Article 14 as incomplete, so that the amendment cannot be debated and cannot be voted on. You received a report from the Legislative Committee. You have received the Government's opinion on the amendments made. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The title above Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by Vladan Jeremic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word is by MP Aleksandar Martinovic, the authorised representative of the SRS parliamentary group. The time at the disposal of each president or authorised representative of the parliamentary group is 15 minutes, and the time for parliamentary groups to discuss in particular is divided in proportion to the number of MPs in the parliamentary group, up to five hours, and up to 10 hours in total for the amendments. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15717	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the number of amendments submitted to the proposal for a law on the prohibition of discrimination, which is greater than 500, as well as the fact that amendments to this bill have been submitted to the ruling coalition, is the best evidence of the quality, i.e. the lack of quality of this legislative project. If we know that all traditional churches and religious communities have stood up against this bill, if we know that a number of patriotic NGOs, political parties, particularly those in the opposition, prominent public figures, then we can draw an unequivocal conclusion that the bill is bad. The SRS could initially consider that certain solutions contained in the proposal for this law were due to ignorance, ignorance, perhaps not some bad desire but inability to pass certain interests and certain views in an appropriate manner in the draft law. However, after what was said by Mr Dragoljub Micunovic here a few days ago for this speaker as a gray eminence DS, we in the SRS are absolutely clear what the real meaning of this law is. Mr Micunovic, as one of the founders of the DS, said one of its ideologists, what Minister Ciplic was not allowed to say, which is that – at this time, the DS deliberately went out with this legislative project and with only one goal – that is to legalise one social group, that is, one part of the population of Serbia, which is those who, in relation to most other Serbian citizens, have some specific sexual orientation. Everyone else - disabled, children, young people, old people, they're just a facade, they don't get this law for them. This law is passed because DS, as instructed by its political mentors from the west, wants to legalise certain forms of psychosexual deviations. Mr Dragoljub Micunovic said what the people behind the DS actually think, and that is -- that they don't care about the white plague in Serbia, that they don't care if Serbs or Chinese live in Serbia, they don't care what happens to the Serbian people in 50 or 100 years. It's obvious that the law is written by that intensity. The purpose of this legislative project is to destroy the spiritual, biological and moral set of Serbian people, to disrupt and destroy all the traditional moral values that exist with Serbs and with all other Serbian citizens and to continue what NATO failed to destroy in 1999. It can be said freely that this law, if you adopt it in the text in which you proposed it, is a continuation of NATO aggression against Serbia. It is no accident that these very days, when we mark 10 years of Serbia's barbaric and savage bombing by the NATO Pact, we are discussing a proposal for a law on discrimination. What NATO bombers failed to destroy in 1999, it needs today to destroy the ruling coalition, primarily DS, by proposing such a law, which is essentially aimed at the vital interests of the Serb people. NATO failed to destroy Serbia in 99, failed to destroy Serbs, as it failed to destroy either 94 or 95, when it also bombed the positions of the Republika Srpska Army, or the Republika Srpska Army. But that job, instead of NATO bombers, should be completed by MPs and ministers of the ruling coalition – should be biologically and spiritually destroyed and be beheaded, above all, by the Serbian people. You, voting for this legal project, are going to legalize something that has been declared abnormal, pathological and essentially inhumane everywhere in the civilized world. There's been a lot of talk these days about that phenomenon. That's probably what we're gonna talk about today. Gentlemen from the ruling coalition, despite your oath to human rights, freedoms, democracy, EU fluids, etc. Gayism, no matter what you say, is biologically inconsequential. Homosexualism can't lead to the birth of a new life. You as a government in Serbia, instead of taking all measures – economic, social policies, that as many children, every child, not only Serbian, but Roma, and Hungarian, and Slovak, and Bulgarian, are born in Serbia, because every child is a gift of God, regardless of how his parents, whose nation or religion they belong to, are baptized, but that there are as many children in Serbia. With this law, not that there will be no more children, there will be fewer. You are in this way legalizing a kind of sexual orientation that is biologically completely inconsistencies. Instead of taking all the necessary steps to restore Serbia's population, so that the whole parts of Serbia are not allowed, that Serbia does not come down to several major cities, such as Belgrade, Novi Sad, Kragujevac and Nis, you do the opposite. You're killing the idea that marriage is a certain value, you're killing the idea that new life is a certain value, you're going to use this law to put an end to biological strength, first of all, the Serbian people. The number of amendments submitted by the MPs of the SRS says that the legislative proposal is bad, completely bad. It is unfortunate that the ruling coalition has used disabled, old people, children, youth, unemployed as a facade. You will not repair their position by this law. Their position has already been regulated by a series of legal regulations that exist in the Republic of Serbia several years ago. Your real goal is to legalize homosexualism. The next step is to legalize homosexual marriages and allow homosexuals to adopt children. That's your real goal. In fact, the ultimate intention of those behind you is that in 50 or 100 years, there will be no more Serbs, that Serbia will be completely free and that then the United States, NATO pact and various white-world criminals here, in these areas, can do whatever they want.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15718	Anyone else want a word? The word has a People's MP, Nada Kolundzija, president of the Parliamentary Group for European Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15719	The Honorable Chairman, honourable fellow MPs, is true that this law is made because it is necessary by law to regulate and prevent any form of discrimination. The intention of turning this whole law into a single member is, in fact, an attempt for those who are against the ban on discrimination to be passed to hide behind that one member, because if they say, people can die out because of what women do, so they will not be born, which they have the right not to marry, which they have the right to divorce. It also destroys the biological mass of the people, as it often hides. But it's a little unpopular to say we're against discrimination against women, so then we avoid saying it. Also, this is a law that prohibits discrimination against people with disabilities. As the struggle for equality and equality of persons with disabilities was also a difficult battle, in which those who today against this law felt that disabled persons were freaks on the face of God, and that they should be put away, and that they are not someone who should enjoy the same rights as everyone else, but it is unpopular to talk about the disabled, and then the subject is avoided. This is a law that covers all forms of discrimination, this is a law that covers all categories that are exposed to discrimination and this is a law that shows whether we as a society are ready and able to win a new space of freedom for particularly sensitive groups, which not only in Serbian society, and in other societies, are exposed because of various prejudices of discrimination. What is very important to us is that Serbia has had the strength to include this law and what has been converted as the sole theme of this law, to include those categories that are now the most sensitive categories, because Serbian society has made progress in both women's rights and other sensitive categories, but it is obviously extremely impatient and ready for any form of discrimination against one group of our citizens, and these are people's different sexual orientations. That is why it was important for this law to cover all sensitive categories, and that is why it is only one member of this law, and therefore it is not the whole of this law, this law really deals essentially with all forms of discrimination, all instruments that will prevent discrimination from any group and deal with the affirmation of a social mile in which discrimination will not be socially acceptable to anyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15720	The word is made by MP Balin Pastor, president of the Group of Minorities.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15721	Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, on the basis of Article 143 of Article 3 I would use 15 minutes in front of the Parliamentary Group of Minorities to talk about this bill in principle and in particular, since I did not exercise that right last week when it was a principle debate over this very important bill. Since the draft law on the prohibition of discrimination in particular is now being considered, I must express my sincere joy that the MPs have shown such a great interest in defining the anti-discrimination framework by proposing nearly 500 amendments. I hope that these amendments will improve the law and I hope that the MPs are precisely from that initiative and the desire to improve the law have submitted these amendments, which will be seen in the debate. As for the draft law on the prohibition of discrimination, I think this proposal is among the most important draft laws that the National Assembly should consider and adopt this year. This was also shown by the law in the procedure of 20 February 2009, which was to be found on the agenda on March 5th, meaning, in just 15 days since the proposal was held in the assembly procedure, but unfortunately the law was withdrawn at the government's telephone session due to opposition from the SPC or all traditional churches. We don't even know today why this law has been withdrawn and we think it's not good that this law has been withdrawn, not because we think it's not good that some members of this proposal have been amended, but because this example shows that in Serbia very important issues are being resolved outside the institutions today, and that's not good for Serbia, it's not good for democracy in Serbia. We believe that it was better for MPs to submit certain amendments instead of SPCs, that is, all traditional churches, and it is not good that this proposal was withdrawn from the assembly procedure only hours before the day this proposal was to be found on the agenda of the National Assembly, but it was done so and when it was already done, I think it is a good thing that this bill has not been changed to a large extent, that only certain inaccuracies have been removed and that the proposal has not been substantially amended, since the SVM considers that this bill on the prohibition of discrimination is good. It is good that the concept of the law, i.e. the proposal, has not been changed and that the proposing's intention remains unbroken. It is always said that the law is important because it is a precondition for visa liberalisation, it is a condition for putting Serbia on the White Schengen list. It is doubtless so and of course it is good that by adopting this law, the National Assembly will meet all the requirements of the road map in a few days and all legal deficiencies will be removed and we will be legally ready for visa-free regimes. I think it is not primarily important that this bill is on the agenda because it is on the condition of visa liberalisation, it is important that this draft law is on the agenda because unfortunately in Serbia certain groups are largely vulnerable today in 2009. It is very good that this law will in a comprehensive way set the frameworks for the ban on discrimination in the Republic of Serbia. We know that the political criteria of EU accession have been defined since 1993 in Copenhagen and in these Copenhagen criteria, it is unequivocally said that the frameworks for banning, combating discrimination and this bill do so in a very good way. I would also like to remind the honourable fellow Members of the People's Parliament that the European Commission's 2008 report is standing – the framework law on the ban on discrimination has not yet been adopted. It is a major flaw in Serbia on its way to the EU and it is very good that the deficit will be removed in a few days. The European Commission's 2008 report also said that there is still widespread discrimination against national minorities, the Roma population and women, as well as persons with special sexual orientation in practice. I also quoted this from the European Commission's 2008 report. In December 2007, the bill received a very favourable opinion from the Venice Council of Europe Commission and it is certainly one recommendation that this law should be passed. It's very good that this law is comprehensive. Personal characteristics based on which discrimination may arise are sufficiently broad. This law will apply to both citizens of Serbia and foreign persons, i.e. persons who do not have the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia when they find themselves in the territory of the Republic of Serbia and legal persons. It is very important that hate speech under this law will be a form of discrimination and that this will be defined by this law, and it is also very important that it is explicitly said that they are not considered to be discrimination against a specific measure imposed in order to achieve full equality, protection and progress of the person, or group of persons in an unequal position. It's so-called. positive discrimination. It is also contained in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and will now find its place in this law on the ban on discrimination. The newly published Article 18 provides that it will not be considered discrimination against the conduct of priests and religious officials who are in accordance with the doctrine, beliefs or objectives of churches and religious communities registered in accordance with the law. This provision unequivocally states that churches, or priests, traditional churches, and priests will not be in danger and it will not be possible to accuse priests of discrimination only because they will propagate the doctrine or beliefs of the church. It is also very advanced that discrimination in the field of work will include volunteers and students in practice. These are groups of people who have been very often victims of discrimination at work, and it is good that the frameworks for the ban on discrimination will also be set against these persons. The way in which the rights of members of national minorities are exercised and protected is governed by a special law. This law only regulates one member, that's Article 24. This shows that this law is comprehensive and not only applies to the protection of members of national minorities from discrimination. It is very good to choose a trustee to protect equality. We do not view this institution as being over-enlarged and such a massive administration, as some opposition parties claim. The administration in Serbia is unfortunately overwhelming, but we believe that the trustee for the protection of equality is of paramount importance and that this law could not have lived in practice, as it should have happened, without establishing trustees for the protection of equality. It is good that the handling of the trustee is detailed in the draft law, as well as the authority of the trustees. It is also a very advanced solution to the fact that, in the name of and with the consent of the person whose right is violated, the complaint will also be able to be filed by organisations dealing with the protection of human rights or other persons. We know well that the victims of discrimination, unfortunately, have not always reported discrimination in the past for certain reasons, above all because of the concern that they will again be discriminated against and it is very good that, instead of them and organisations, they will be able to file a complaint instead of victims of discrimination. Of course, it is good that judicial protection, i.e. in judicial protection, will be urgent and this indicates that the state will treat these proceedings in cases of discrimination as desirable. In the end, I would like to say that the Parliamentary Group of Minorities will certainly vote in favour of this law. We look forward to Serbia getting a law on the ban on discrimination and it is good that the original text has not changed to a greater extent, which remains the same. Let me take advantage of the possibility that Mr. Ciplic is present today at the National Assembly and ask him what is wrong with the law on national councils. I must say that it is very good that the Ministry has included representatives of national councils in the draft law and has respected the objections of national councils of national minorities. We believe that the working version of this law is very good and that it will allow the best possible way to regulate the issue of the choice of national councils, the competences of these bodies, which are also mentioned in the Constitution, which is the constitutional category, and also the question of funding. It would only matter if this bill was passed by the summer of this year. The minister knows very well that there are currently 16 national councils of national minorities and that most of them have expired, that there is currently no legal framework for re-election of these bodies, that neither the issue of jurisdiction nor the financing of these bodies has been regulated. If we want Serbia to remove any shortcomings in legal regulation regarding members of national minorities and the protection of national minorities, then this law should be adopted as soon as possible. Mr. Minister, I would ask you to answer the question of how far it has come and when we can expect this very important law to be found in the congregation procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15722	The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic. The time at the disposal of the authorised representative shall be seven minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15723	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's not the first time the SRS has imputed that we're fascists, that we're racists, that we're against this, that we're against that, that's just not true. I believe that, Mrs. Kolundjia, with all the respect I express to you as a lady, you have above all offended the women who are MPs of the SRS. It's just enough to take a summer view so you can see how we in the SRS are discriminating women. Do you see Mrs. Gordana Pop-Lazic here? Do you see Vesna Maric? Do you see Lydia Dimitrijevic? Do you see Marina Ragush? Do you see that we have chosen a lady – Natasa Jovanovic as vice president of the National Assembly? What kind of discrimination are you talking about in the SRS? Mrs. Kolundzhija, we are not to discriminate against anyone in Serbia, we need to protect all endangered social categories, and children and youth, and older people, and pensioners, and unemployed and disabled, etc. What we're telling you is that this law does not provide an adequate system of legal protection. You say in vain that you should protect the disabled. How will you protect them? By the fact that this disabled, God forbid, tomorrow if someone discriminates against his rights, he can address that trustee of yours for protection against discrimination, and the only thing that that trustee can do is make a written note to whoever's doing the discrimination and the whole thing ends? What kind of protection for disabled people? What's a cripple got to do with it? What's any of it got to do with anything? If you wanted to provide effective protection for all these social categories, you had to prescribe appropriate crimes and punish those who wanted to discriminate against children, youth, disabled people, elderly people, etc. But you don't care about protecting anyone, you care about legalizing only one small group of people that exists in Serbia because you want what isn't normal to you. You can, Mrs. Kolundjia, say a hundred times that homosexuality is normal, it's not normal, and the World Health Organization says it's a disorder and everywhere in the world, every civilized and decent man will say it's not normal. And instead of encouraging the state of Serbia to give birth to our children, to get young people married, to start their own family, you do everything the opposite of that, to break up the family, to destimulate birth. Mr. Micunovic comes out for a pay phone and says -- they lie to radicals that there is a white plague in Serbia, and all the demographics, all the people who do statistics say that we have all the ends of Serbia released. That's what this is about. We in the SRS and are interested in whether in 50 or 100 years, Serbs will live in Serbia or whether someone else will live. Allow me, Serbia, however, is the state of the Serbian people and we want the Serbian people to survive, not disappear. We want there to be as many Serbs as possible and there to be more Hungarian children in Serbia, Slovak, Roma and all others, but you are killing the very idea of giving birth to a new life in Serbia. That's what this is about. Please, Mrs. Kolundjia, you and all your colleagues from the DS, don't tell lies about someone in the SRS discriminating homosexuals. We always said and we pointed out that in principle debate: if a man wants to be gay, let him be, but let him be in his house, in his apartment. Why are you raising homosexualism to the level of social norm? Why should homosexuality suddenly become social value? That's what this is about. Privately, in four walls, let a man be whatever he wants, we have nothing against it. Gays should also be treated, and homosexuals should be hired, and homosexuals have the right to live as other citizens of Serbia, but do not raise homosexualism to the level of something that is normal, when it is not normal. It's just not normal. Not only do religions condemn such a form of behavior, but you yourself, if you weren't hypocritical. Here, stay alone with you and with your safety, and ask yourself, who promotes this law, would you like, if it doesn't matter if you're in love with a man or a woman, that your son, one day, instead of your sister-in-law, should bring you a son-in-law or bring you an uncle-in-law with a mustache? Well, you wouldn't want to. You know, you're hypocrites, you say, never mind, let it happen to someone else. It could happen to both you and your family tomorrow. Don't lose sight of one fact: if you declare homosexuality a socially acceptable phenomenon and allow public expression not only of homosexualism but of all other forms of sexual deviation, it will cause natural revolt for those who are against it. On the streets of Serbia, you will have conflicts between homosexuals and those who are against it, you will have conflicts between paedophiles and those who are against it. Why are you doing this? Why are you causing a latent civil war in Serbia? Don't you already understand, from people's statements before this law was passed, that there are strong resistances to this law? It is impossible that all of a sudden Irinej Bulovic and the archbishop of Belgrade's Hotchevar, and all those powerful intellectuals overnight became fascists, none of them know what Europe is, none of them know anything until you tell them. That's naive. Of course, you're not the ones sitting here sitting the idea makers of this. Someone else is pulling strings, someone else who doesn't want well not only the SRS but not you, not our children, not yours. That's what this is about. Don't be blind with healthy eyes. Think about it with your own head and look at the world with your own eyes, not American, French, German, Masonic, or who knows what else.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15724	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Škrbić. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. People's MPs, please closely monitor the search. I asked very clearly if anyone wanted a word and left a break and that didn't happen. We are now in search of Article 1 of the amendment submitted by MP Milan Škrbic. A little more attention during the session. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Parliamentarian Milan Avramovic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) the word has been given by MP Milan Avramović.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15725	Mrs. Comic, this has been discrimination since early morning. Don't be nervous. We're just getting started. So, a colleague submitted an amendment before me and you didn't give him the opportunity to explain it. Even if you asked and if he didn't answer at that time, because he was a pay phone speaker, you could have asked again. It's your responsibility.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15726	People's MP, you've been given your word to discuss the details of the amendment to Article 1, which you are the applicant. Please, by honoring Article 103, speak of this amendment. With a stenogram and insight into the course of the session, you can see that I have done the right thing, and I warn you that the measures will be expressed for the violation of Article 103, because it is the chairman's duty on the basis of Article 100. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15727	It's good to see the citizens of Serbia. So I have submitted an amendment to Article 1(1) which states that this law provides for all forms of discrimination and sanctioning them. Since that is not true, not all forms of discrimination, more specifically anti-discrimination, and for sanctioning them do not have some responsibility, I asked for Article 1(1) to be deleted. What reason did I ask for? In the light of the fact that the amendment of the proposed member of the proposal for this law does not strengthen the provision of Article 21. The constitution, on the prohibition of discrimination, which says that all are equal before the Constitution, then we can come to the conclusion of the general nature and practice, which coincides with this proposal of yours, which is: what about discrimination against Serbs in The Hague tribunal; what about discrimination between Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija; what about the verdict of the Eulexa Shipar terrorists freed to blow up "Nish Express"; what about discrimination against Serbs in general; what about discrimination you've been carrying out since 2000, through institutions, through health, through corruption, through local self-government; what about the will of voters, who voted, over a million and a few votes, have given SRS, and today it is not seen in this room; what about local voices, people voted for SRS, and through mandates, it is not seen; what about false judgments, judgments? Where are the forms of discrimination, where is the protection from that? Where's the protection at work, what you're saying here about unions, for employees, for smaller and lower forms of discrimination. There's no such thing as a practice here...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15728	Two minutes. Thank you. Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Hope Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15729	The President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think this amendment speaks in the most obvious way of actually talking about the intention not to pass such a law and to resist the law to prevent any form of discrimination. Therefore, the amendment proposes to delete a member who reads: 'This law regulates the general prohibition of discrimination, forms and cases of discrimination, as well as the protection against discrimination'. The amendment requires that this article be deleted. This clearly shows that it is actually about resistance to the law that would settle the issue of a ban on discrimination.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15730	Anyone else want a word? You can as an authorised representative, and use the time available for the SRS parliamentary groups. National MP Milan Avramovic, you have no right to replicate. Every MP has the right to an argument. When the MP argues his position, one number of MPs disagrees deeply and considers it incorrect. When another MP argues his position, another number of MPs finds it incorrect. As long as MPs respect the members of the Rules of Procedure, they have until then the right to what they consider to be a style of argument good for their position. People's MP, I'm sorry to keep you waiting, just to explain why he doesn't have the right to reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15731	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, of course the SRS is against this law against discrimination. We are absolutely against any form of discrimination, but you of the DS are persistently misleading the public. You're not going to say, after all, that's what the minister said in explaining the bill, but you are now silent when the time has come for debates in particular, that there are over 15 laws in Serbia that protect certain social categories. You have the Health Protection Act, you have the Family Law, you have the Criminal Code, you have the Radio-Difusion Act, you have the Law to prevent incidents at sports events, you have the Labour Act. So there are a whole series of laws that have already provided for appropriate forms of protection of certain categories of Serbian citizens: disabled people, children, youth, old people etc. So there's a legal regulation, but now you want to build some kind of Podekin village. You are not interested in this law to protect the disabled, because you sincerely want to protect them, then you would have made it possible, if you looked at RTS a few days ago, to that unfortunate man, Zivorad Vasiljkovic from Mladenvec, that a man properly exercise his rights. No, people like that will still live a hard life. You will like to pass a law that allegedly speeds up Serbia's path to the EU, but not to improve the essential position of these endangered social categories. No, I don't. Your goal is only one, you want to legalize certain pathological aspects of sexual orientation, and that's the real goal of this law. Everything else is cosmetics. Please, Mrs. Kolundjia, what kind of protection can a disabled person expect under this law? He can address the protection officer in writing for protection against discrimination and that trustee when he examines all the facts, he can give a warning to anyone who has committed discrimination, so if he refuses to act on a warning, then the warning will be made public. What good does a disabled person have to do with it? What good does a child have to do with it? What's the use of any of that? The legal protection you've provided for this bill is pointless. It's no protection whatsoever. That's to say, well, there's a trustee. First of all, this trustee is not the Constitution that provides for it, and I don't know how you think you're educating state bodies that aren't provided for in the Constitution. And that it is foreseen by the Constitution, the instruments at his disposal are absolutely insufficient to help anyone in any sphere of social life seriously. Of course we're against discrimination, so if anyone's suffering discrimination, then I guess it's the MPs of the SRS. Get the records from the board of directors' session. It turns out that only radicals here say some heavy words, only radicals are undisciplined, the rest are apostles, the rest are saints. It can't be like that. It is impossible that no DS MP has been fined since the repression was introduced into the National Assembly. That's impossible. I'm a witness, and so are my colleagues from the SRS, when a man comes out here for a pay phone, the real salvaa insult comes from this side. Is anyone being punished? It's not. Members of the SRS alone have been punished. If anyone knows what discrimination is, we know Serbian radicals, our President Vojislav Seselj knows. All possible international conventions, every elemental legal act has been overrun when it comes to Dr Vojislav Seselj. Nothing stands here anymore, neither the UN Charter nor the International Civil and Political Rights Pact, nor the Serbian Constitution, is absolutely worth anything. You need to destroy a man who won't bow down to a new world order. This law should destroy a Serb people who do not fit into the new world order. It should destroy the biological substance of the Serb people. You're doing it with this law. It is sad that there are people among you who are deeply aware of all the dangers this law carries. They comment on it in the towers, in the streets, in phone conversations. Here, the bowed heads will have to vote for this bill, because your political mentors have ordered this law to be passed. And if the ruling coalition doesn't have roses under this law, the best proof for you is Mr. Dragan Markovic Palma, who said his MPs won't vote for this law. You now explain to me, if a man will not vote for this law, whether he has become an anti-European overnight, against the EU and against a white Schengen visa. And what kind of coalition is this? Some people want to go to Europe, some people don't want to go to Europe. You said this government has a clear course, as quickly as Serbia enters the EU. On account of these famous Schengen visas, Mrs. Kolundjia, let's not be little children. The other day Angela Merkel, the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, told you, forget about joining the EU, Croatia, Serbia, BiH, Montenegro and Albania will eventually enter the EU. As for white Schengen visas, the Czech foreign minister said Serbia might be on the agenda by half of 2010 to consider its request to be placed on the white Schengen list. So there's none of that. Not because the SRS is against it, we can't stop it. For its reasons, the EU does not want Serbia as its member. Do you understand that? They just don't want to. Do you understand when you are told that there is no reception of new EU members until each existing Member State has ratified the Lisbon Treaty. There will be decades until the process is over. You are now putting every indisputable person in a procedure in the Assembly and saying, well, that's now a condition for EU entry. It's not. It is someone's hellish intention to destroy the Serbian people, but everything that has been directed against Serbs has been promoting for years as if it were our condition for EU accession. If Serbia is to enter the EU without Serbs, then we do not need the EU.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15732	The word is made by MP Milan Avramovic. You want to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure? You can also use the time available as a member of the SRS parliamentary group. Are you talking about hurting the Rules of Procedure or using your time? Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15733	I use the right of Article 101, in which one attitude says...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15734	National MP, the right to receive a word on the basis of Article 101 is, as you have seen, the right of the chairman, the discretionary right, and does not constitute a subject for breach of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you. I thank the People's Parliament. As a member of 101, you cannot claim that the Rules of Procedure have been violated, since the right to the replica is the discretionary right of the chairman. Thank you. Minister, Mr. Svetozar Chiplic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15735	Dear Messengers, honourable messengers, we should not be afraid or afraid of what is not there. In this law, I repeat again, no new law is established that already does not exist, which is already not given by the Constitution. What's not in this law? In this law there can certainly be nothing in this Article 21. Nothing that would be a legal assumption of, how here for this speaker is derived from critics of this law, same-sex marriages. Article 62. The RS constitution says - marriage is concluded on the basis of the free consent of a man and woman before a state authority. I don't think it should be a dilemma from now on that this article is gone. It is true that there are a large number of laws in the legal order of the RS that speak of a ban on discrimination against certain endangered categories. I cited it as an argument that this framework law was passed, because what stands in those laws is isolated. It's not connected to the system. It is one of the basic faults of such legal solutions in resolution laws. Practically, the only law we can say is to systematically protect against discrimination, that's the one concerning a person with disabilities. The advantage of this law is, I repeat, the Republic of Serbia, regardless of nationality, and nationality does not determine whether someone is disabled, whether a child, whether a woman, whether an unemployed person is an unemployed person, owes the citizens of Serbia precisely because of the international conventions she has signed and which she has pledged to pass this law. By chance, now it's happened that, because of the white Schengen list, we get this as a condition. The protection against discrimination prescribed here by the trustee isn't the only one, it's not the basic one, it's the additional one, in addition to the criminal-legal protection that exists. In fact, when you cross legal standards, when you cross criminal law, then you see what legal protection is for certain categories, or who does not enjoy criminal and legal protection, or what is criminally-legal discrimination, and there is no dilemma. What is important, I think, is the attitude of all those behind this law, when Serbia adopts this law, Serbia will be clean in front of both God and people. That's what matters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15736	Two MPs called. Gordana Pop-Lazic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15737	Madam Chairman, I feel an obligation as deputy head of the SRS parliamentary group to put only some things in your face regarding this discrimination you are conducting towards the SRS deputies. So you don't shut me down, I'll say it's about article 101. [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15738	Members of the People, Article 101, is not an object that you can get the word to speak of injure the Rules of Procedure. Any other member referring to a breach of the Rules of Procedure made immediately before reporting for a word may, Article 101, be the discretionary right of the Chairman, when and in which cases he gives the right to reply. You can see from your insight into the stenogram that such a member has been applied since the adoption of the new Rules of Procedure. Thank you. (Gordana Pop-Lazic: I'll do it by Article 27) You'll have to call again if you want to talk about another member. (Goldana Pop-Lazic: I'm calling again.) ) National MP Aleksandar Martinovic first has a word after reporting when you finished. He'll leave the word to me. I ask you to return to your seat, for who, who will be given the word and who will receive the word, decides the chairman. Please return to your seat. The speakers can't approach anyone without the chairman's permission, nor can they speak without the chairman's permission. National MP Suleiman Spaho has been rudely and inappropriately addressing the chairman and I give you the first warning to throw and violate Article 104. I would like to warn you that an inappropriate and rude throw-off to the chairman or other MPs is the reason for the warning. When the chairman sees that there has been a breach of Article 104, he or she is required by article 100 to give notice. The word has a folk MP, Gordana Pop-Lazic, wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure and gets word based on Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15739	Thank you, and I'd be very grateful if you'd let me tell you something these two minutes. Article 27, in the fifth indent, gives the President of the National Assembly, in this case to whoever holds the presidency, the authority to carry out other tasks provided for by law and by this Rules of Procedure. So, all the members of this Rules of Procedure, and the implementation and work of this assembly in your jurisdiction, is in a certain sense, even I mean in a large extent, because you dictate that atmosphere in parliament. When someone wants to point out that they have the right to replicate something, it doesn't say anywhere in the Rules of Procedure that it's your discretionary right. It says just like this, that you make the decision - the decision in the cases referred to in Article 1 and 2 of this article is made by the President of the National Assembly. What did we want to give you as additional authority? That you, eventually, assess at what point you should break that chain of replicas, but you cannot ban MPs who feel that they are misread to have a debate with each other and to discuss. In this way you really narrow the work of parliamentarians to something that you probably imagine such a parliament, but we do not experience it and I believe that this side does not experience it, and using that right. Now to offend an MP or someone who comes out of this left side of me, there's something wrong with what I said, I'm sure I'll ask for a word again, or he'll ask for a word, and that's the debate we want. We do it for the public, because of the quality of this debate, and nowhere, Madam Chairman, stands the discretionary right (President: Two minutes, thank you. ..that you decide what anyone will do. You can, but it doesn't lead, believe me, nothing.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15740	There is no violation of Article 27, the position you quoted on the custody of the order during the session of the National Assembly. I listen very carefully to all the speakers and the moment the basis for the replica appears, the right to the replica and the right to the word is given. By looking at the stenogram, you can make sure I'm telling the truth. During the presentation of the People's MPs, since the start of the morning work, none of the speakers have provided the basis for any other replica, and the decision is made by the chairman. And it says in that article, precisely so that the decision is not made by the MPs, but by the chairman's responsibility, to make a decision when assessing whether or not there was a basis for replication. National MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group, is not pleased and I pray that in the day for a vote on the violation of article 27, the National Assembly declares itself. The word is made by MP Milan Avramovic. The time available for the SRS parliamentary group is 61 minutes. I apologize, Aleksandar Martinovic. Really, excuse me one more time.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15741	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I always find it funny when state officials from the DS call to the Constitution and say something is not possible because it does not say in the Constitution. Mr. Chiplic, find me a member of the Constitution that predicts that in Serbia, as a state body, there is a trustee for protection against discrimination. What member of the Constitution does that say? It doesn't say anything. That's what you made up. It is an imaginary state body that is not foreseen by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. As an expert on constitutional law, you know, as I know, that state bodies cannot be formed without presupposing by the Constitution. So this organ is unconstitutional. That's the first thing. The second thing, you and Slobodan Milosevic couldn't deliver under the then applicable Constitution in 2001, so you delivered it. There's so much you couldn't do by the Constitution. When it comes to the Constitution, you act on the principle of political integrity – when it suits me at some point to respect the Constitution, then we will respect it, and when we do not respond – the Constitution is overcome, there are some legal gaps, then we can also work past the Constitution. This is just the first step towards legalizing something that is deeply opposed to human nature and that is my personal deep conviction. This is just the first step. Now you will allow certain forms of sexual pathology to be publicly promoted, you will allow this law. The next step is to allow the conclusion of homosexual marriages. The third step is to let gays adopt children. All three measures are deeply opposed to the vital interests of both the Serbian people and all citizens living in Serbia. Simply, homosexualism, pedophilia, sodomy, are not biologically justified forms of sexual behavior and cannot lead to the birth of a new life, can only cause trouble, suffering, suffering, tears, blood, etc. The state can't do that. The country or people who lead it, if they want to be nationalally responsible, then politics must not lead from today to tomorrow, but rather have to run politics by thinking about what will happen in the next 100 or 200 years. After all, look up to your American friends. They have a brain trust that plans American politics for the next 300 years and nothing that happens in the world happens by accident. Someone's got something planned, someone's got something in mind, someone's pulling strings out of the background. We act as some unspeakable herd lurking in the dark of history, today we will respect the Constitution, tomorrow we won't, we don't care whether there will be or won't be a white plague in Serbia, whether Serbs or Taiwanese, Thais, Eskimo etc. This is not how the state is led, or guided, but is led to short paths and is led to ruin.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15742	The word has an MP Milan Avramović. Once again, I apologize to MP Aleksandr Martinovic for his last name error.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15743	I must use the right of our parliamentary group when it comes to the time to explain to viewers, besides, Serbian citizens and all MPs the reason for submitting my amendment. Therefore, Article 1(1) states - this law regulates the general prohibition of discrimination. General discrimination does not mean all of this as referred to in Article 13 as difficult forms of discrimination. General discrimination cannot be any genocide or ethnic cleansing. That's what's classified under this law and what someone's going to be caught up in responding to under this genocide law or ethnic cleansing. Therefore, general discrimination cannot be genocide and ethnic cleansing. That's why I asked that term "general discrimination" to be deleted. It's a war crime, it's a crime, it's an organisational criminal association. It is something that is not defined by this law, and this law, under general discrimination, is subject to that. For example, Naser Oric, under this law he would be struck to be retailed and rewarded for what he did in Srebrenica. One classic example that says that general discrimination does not contain everything that tramples us in the process of life itself and in the case of Serbia. We have discrimination at every step in every sense of the word and in every respect. When you go to work first, they ask you – are you a member of a party? Depending on your answer, you've made yourself a position in the kind of candidacy whether you're busy or not. See how many conditions it takes to get a job somewhere: whether you're a member of a party, that you're wealthy, that there's someone behind you, that has something of you. We have discrimination that a pregnant woman can't get a job, we have discrimination that a simple union can't function properly because she's telling the truth, sanctioning the presidents of the union, sanctioning those who raise their voice, who say something isn't according to the law. Do not select the law and place those people in general discrimination. General discrimination does not exist when it comes to these two terms – genocide and ethnic cleansing. General discrimination does not even exist as awareness for people who are sexually defined as homosexuals. It's not a general phenomenon. These are not normal things to be found in this law. That's why I submitted an amendment to erase the term of general discrimination. I apologize and thank you for your time.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15744	Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Snow White Sedlar-Kenig. The time available for the G17 parliamentary group plus is 28 minutes and 48 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15745	The chairman, colleagues and fellow MPs, one of the previous SRS speakers following the previous amendment, Mr Martinovic, said that, for example, a vulnerable group of people with disabilities does not have the right to protection regulated by this law. He probably didn't have time to look at the material, since the amendment of Ms. Plasić-Stojanović and Gordana Rajkov was accepted, where Article 26 adds Article 2, which says that even a vulnerable group of people with disabilities is applied to the members of the law from 41 to 46, relating to the legal protection of a group of people with disabilities. One more thing, I think this law has very well addressed the issue of legal protection, because many newspapers are actually applied. For example, the victim of discrimination is not the only one who can seek protection, this time in the law provides that instead of the victim of discrimination, which can also be ignorant and does not know all his rights, it can also be done by the trustee for the protection of equality, I mean also on judicial protection, and also by organisations dealing with human rights. Also, there are a number of newspapers such as the introduction of temporary measures, the urgency of the procedure, etc. One more sentence, why we as the MP group G17 plus think, and I didn't have time to say it in my presentation the other day, that it is necessary to bring it and we will support the unequal adoption of this law, and that is primarily because discrimination is the most harsh, flagrant and most severe form of violation of the dignity of one individual, man, human being, putting into an unequal position just because of one of his qualities or only one of his personal qualities. That is why it is necessary to pass this law, but also to apply it effectively and consistently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15746	The word is given by MP Aleksandar Martinovic, the right to replication on the basis of direct reference, the authorised representative of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15747	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, of course I am not at all convinced of the justification of the arguments presented by my distinguished predecessor. So it looks like two things are getting mixed up here: is the SRS against any form of discrimination? Yes, it is. Are we against this law? We did. Because this law does not provide an adequate form of legal protection against discrimination. It may seem a little complicated and vague to you who are not lawyers right now, but you're always keeping an eye on what is the ultimate sanction for discrimination. The final sanction under this law, ladies and gentlemen of the ruling coalition, is ridiculous. This is a reminder from the trustee, so if the one who does the discrimination does not act by warning, then the trustee will tell him, beware of what you do, this warning of mine will be made public. Who is more afraid of public warnings in Serbia? No one's afraid. This sanction is ridiculous, or sanctions in the right sense, of that word. It is undeniable that there are examples of discrimination in Serbia and the SRS condemns all these cases, but you are not protecting victims of discrimination with this law. The trustee is no protection whatsoever. The trustee is an unconstitutional body that you have provided for in this law, to bring back to that place a party man who will receive a salary in public cost and supply it with a certain bureaucratic apparatus. No protection he will be able to provide to anyone in any sphere of social life. What Mr. Chiplic said, there is already criminal and legal protection, for some forms of discrimination, Mr. Chiplic, there exists, but for some forms of discrimination there is no. As far as I know, in the Criminal Code of the Republic of Serbia there is no apartheid as a criminal offence, there is no ethnic cleansing as a crime. Genocide exists, but apartheid and ethnic cleansing does not exist. Now if we were to bring things down to absurdity, and you're obviously bringing it down, I don't know why, that means that in Serbia it's allowed to perform both apartheid and ethnic cleansing, and the only sanctions that in these two difficult forms of discrimination can be given is that the trustee gives someone a reminder. So you kill 100,000 people and then the trustee makes a warning. What kind of sanctions is that? That's ridiculous. So, you don't absolutely protect victims of discrimination by this law. If you wanted to protect them then you would have predicted a whole series of crimes, you would have provided for a trial, prison sentences, and severe prison sentences, and fines for those who threaten the citizens of Serbia on the basis of some of their personal properties. That's not the point to you. You don't care about the disabled, the unemployed, the children, the youth. (President: Three minutes, MP, the time for replica is used. You're interested in biologically destroying the Serbian people.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15748	The word has a folk letter from Gordana Pop-Lazic. The time available for the SRS parliamentary group is 55 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15749	Mr. Minister, here's only one example and one proof that this law does not offer adequate legal protection against discrimination. Have we witnessed these days that justice minister Mrs Malovic and Mr Dinkic went public with the the thesis that work disputes should be suspended? Are they? It was in the press, everywhere in the media. I'm asking if we're all equal in court. The constitution says we are. Why is it that those in charge of work dispute are discriminated in this way and they have to push themselves into a corner because some others have a priority? How is that even possible? I don't know if it's going to happen, but the media have been doing it these days and these statements exist. What do we do against one minister and another? Should we report them to the trustee when we pass this law? I'm sorry, it's not covered by this law. So, this particular government that offers us this law on the ban on discrimination is discrimination. Look what an absurd thing that is. That's all I wanted to do for the public, and you deal with the government.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15750	Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Natasa Jovanovic. The time available to the parliamentary group is 54 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15751	Mrs. Komic, as far as Mr. Milan Avramovic was right when, explaining as well as his colleague Martinovic, he said there was no general discrimination, a colleague from the G17 Plus parliamentary group confirmed. I've looked at, colleague, an amendment to the 26th of your parliamentary group has been accepted. However, it was obvious and clear to you, and to you, that the term 'general' means nothing and that you had to act by making the legislator take care of the disabled and then the amendment is yours, which says that for cases of discrimination, persons with disabilities apply to members from 41 to 46, something that is now binding. But if we look at it that way now, then we must move on and take all groups of persons and all potential citizens of Serbia who will be discriminated in any way, through the acceptance of Mr Chiplic as a proposer, or government, in that way. This is when we speak to those whose religious rights are at stake. In fact, Mr. Chiplic, a catastrophic failure was made in the adoption of the Mitrovica Constitution two years ago and when they were not in Article 44. The constitution numbered traditional religious communities, seven in Serbia. However, a lower act, i.e. by certain laws, such as the Law on Fundamental Education, where traditional religious communities are precisely listed in the section of the organization of religious education in schools, which was introduced several years ago. Now you explain to me, and with us colleagues Sladjan Mijaljević treated these cases of aggressive behaviour of religious sects, which are primarily poisoning and breaking up Serbian national tissue, and affecting the Serbian youth, and not only the members of the Serbian Orthodox Church, but also other traditional religious communities, how will we protect them, when we have on the other hand the law on churches and religious communities, Mr Chiplic, where in Article 3, I think, this law is allowed to be entered into the register for all those religious communities, as they have called them, who have a number of their members? So the former minister of religion, who explained the law to the National Assembly, said that we must comply with the reality that there is so-called. New Protestant churches, as he called them, and in fact they're all sects. Whether they have a particularly destructive function or have some hidden meaning of their quasiver action, experts can now enter it primarily from that area. Here, I will give you such a drastic example from the forest diocese, members of the Serbian Orthodox Church, that is, priests come under attack and survive in the worst possible way what many Serbian citizens survive, and above all Serbian children, that in front of them, in front of the church's gates, priests in the mantium, the religious sects come across. Not to mention the citizens of Serbia, you are witnessing it, and probably in the settlement where you live, that they are aggressive, and above all, these members of the sect of Jehovah’s Witnesses and many others are the most aggressive. The only thing in Kragujevac is that now the Kragujevac police know at least 15 so-called. religious sects, and in fact, they are potential devastating factors of our society and destruction primarily of our children. Therefore, we can say, given that you have led everything into general, that this law, and according to your reasons, and above all by the presentations of the MPs DS, Nada Kolundžija and Dragoljub Micunović, is an international totalitarian, I do not know what else to call it. Indeed, an international totalitarian, because you are forcing us to be like some amoebes, to be nothing, that we do not know our own language or culture, that we do not know who we belong to, not just us Serbs, but also representatives of other and religious and national communities in our society. Therefore, this law is devastating for our society, for Serbia, and not only for Serbs, but for all its citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15752	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Žutić. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Nikola Žutić.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15753	Dear Members of Parliament, Mr Minister, on the basis of article 147. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I have submitted an amendment to the draft law on the prohibition of discrimination. The amendment reads in Article 1st paragraph 1 after the word "no" and the word "discrimination" and "as" are deleted. The first position of the bill is literally: ''This law regulates the general prohibition of discrimination, forms and cases of discrimination, as well as anti-discrimination proceedings. ''When those words are deleted, it reads: ''This law regulates general prohibitions, forms and cases of discrimination, and anti-discrimination proceedings. '"So, that's the variant of the law when words of contention are erased. This first attitude, therefore, is linguistically and spellingly rhogobatan. Is there a competent ministry of any kind or are these laws simply copied from European legal patterns? Those words simply have to be thrown out, regardless of what the author of the amendment is one radical. Furthermore, in the light of the amendment, I listed the following. The amendment proposes to amend that member of the draft law in order to strengthen the constitutional provision laid down in Article 21. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia on the prohibition of discrimination. I read the provisions of the Constitution because of the citizens of Serbia primarily: ''In front of the Constitution and the law, they are all equal. Everyone has the right to equal legal protection, without discrimination. Any discrimination, directly or indirectly, is prohibited, on any basis, and particularly based on race, gender, nationality, social origin, birth, religion, political or other belief, property, culture, language, age... (President: Two minutes, thank you MP. ) Let me just say that this amendment is so justified and logical that I expect the government to eventually accept it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15754	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Veselinović. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Milan Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15755	Given that the chairman and in place are punishing our MPs...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15756	National MP, you cannot comment on the decisions of the chairman, which are made in accordance with the Rules of Procedure at your disposal in detail. Please stick to the agenda. I apply Article 103 to which I am obliged, as I am obliged under article 100, to make a warning to the MPs who do not. Your two minutes are at your disposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15757	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since this is a law on discrimination, I want to publicly declare here, as a family man and as a man who I have worked long in education, that even here in this House there is discrimination against the minority over the majority. This law, which we are talking about today, is, in fact, difficult to distract the citizens of Serbia, at a time when economic and political Serbia sinks, at a time when we are threatened with the survival of Republika Srpska, at a time when in Montenegro there are discrimination over the majority of Serbian lives, at a time when discrimination and the geto of the Serbian people, at a time when strikes are taking place across our country of Serbia. You will see that these days and the gunmen, the only company Zastava Kragujevac, the dedicated production, who have done something, produced, are now on strike. So they're threatened with survival and receiving personal income. We are now discussing a law that has absolutely nothing to do with the time we live in. In fact, the European Parliament has on several occasions made a decision on how to fight various cults, sects and organisations. Here, I will take the opportunity to read to you the 1992 European Parliament's conclusion, where it is literally said – that many religious and other sects are active in the EU, legalised, and therefore require their organisations and activities to be protected by guarantees of individual and religious freedom, which is based on the European Convention on Human Rights. The next point: Remarking that certain sects operating on the EU as part of an international network are illegal and criminal activities and are constantly violating human rights and dealing with abuses... (President: Two minutes, thank you. ) sexual abuses, confiscation of freedom, etc.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15758	Thank you. It's two minutes. People's MP, you've used your time at your disposal to discuss the amendment. Anyone else want a word? If not, the People's MP Elena Christmas-Talijan has submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? There's a word from the People's Messenger of the Pai Boys. The time available for the SRS parliamentary group is 49 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15759	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are told here that we MPs of the SRS just want to defuse the law and not vote on it, and right from the amendments that we have submitted, one that I have submitted, I don't know if I'm going to be able to explain it, it goes right after that intensity that we want to fix it if possible, the law, that it might be adopted. You see here, that a representative of the European electricity and mondialist, the leader of a parliamentary group, will come out and say "invalids". Now, if the lady in question had read the civil rights Bucharest, then she would have seen that it was not possible to talk about disabled people and could not be talked about disabled people, and it can be said about people with disabilities, it can be said “persons with disabilities. ” Gentlemen of Europe, be careful what you say, be in line with European and civilizational fluids and so speak. With a few words, I would just say, since there was a debate, so I see that Mr. Secretary took the word and discussed it, or I would point to a few things. You see, you are passing this law in one storm, in an interregnum, when it would be far more logical to discuss – how we will overcome the economic crisis, how we will solve the existential problems of the people and the citizens of Serbia. But come on now, we have such a law. You bring new bodies with you with this law. You're still multiplying the administration precisely in these difficult times, and plus that's totally unnecessary. And how hypocritical it is when you advocate a law like this. Look what it's like to hire our old people. Who's going to hire a person for over 50 years? What about the patients? What about waiting lists that can be skipped by paying off state services? What about extra-standard services? Not to talk about it. What about the refugees? Go to the constituency centers, and take a look. And then, let's not talk about the Roma? And what: for Europe's sake? The same Europe won't let you go to Europe. How long has it been since 2000 – isn't that discrimination, that I'm not saying why? After all, you agree to follow what was assigned to you from this Europe, and this Europe has done a great evil and a misdeed, at least what was said, abolished freedom for a people who allegedly did not know that freedom was being served. That's what Cami said -- that's one of the biggest crimes. You're associates with just these. You see, they're a member of the 18th and a member of the 21st. All right, article 18 must have disrupted some of the rights that the Law on Religious Communities has given to the religious community, which is thought of by these largest churches. Of course, Article 21. There's a big debate about sexual orientation. There are many things that are true and many things are incorrect. Please, the World Health Organization has said that sexual orientation is not in itself a disorder, but the same health organization, if you look at the cipher of that health organization, a whole series of disorders, including this, leads to another relationship with other disorders. I'm not gonna read it to you right now. The doctors know it better. After all, if you take it and look at it, let's say that most of you know about academics Vladeta Jerotic, one of the prominent psychiatrists, I am free to say a great deal of Serbian psychiatrists and academics, who, in his part, "Psychodinamics and psychotherapy neurosis", is a edition of the 2007 issue, has a point of homosexuality, where this point is well worked out. I don't want to talk about it again. There's also talk about the treatment of this disorder and it's an absolute disorder. If you want the truth to be true, when you talk about homosexualism, it is not bad to read the book Homosexuality, the selected articles, published in 2003, published Ihtus here in our country, where you have a series of articles that prove unequivocally that it is a social disorder. It doesn't have to be medical, but it's a social disorder. Who's interested in that, 50 years is investigating this problem. If you want to speak from the point of view of science, here, I have given you one book, one source, where you will be able to read a lot of things, and you will see that there is a threat to the health of homosexuals, and that there is an increase in the number of crimes, and that there are weaker human relationships between them, and that we are not talking about everything that affects the cohesion of social life and that violates the cohesion of social life. But these are undeniable facts. You Americans often like to stand out as an example of democracy and how you follow that path. Here's what the Americans tell us. I'm reading you the U.S. Department of Defense's internal instructions. It says this - homosexuality is listed among mental disorders, such as schizophrenia or mental retardation. The U.S. Army is forbidden to search for information about the sexual orientation of its people, but it is allowed to remove from service all those who openly declare themselves homosexual. And you can look into it, who's interested, and I'll give him a reference from where he can see it. You see, we are now discussing essentially one thing that we may not understand – the prohibition of discrimination on the basis of some personal tendency is not the same as freedom of public expression of that personal tendency. That's what we're talking about, and that's where we might argue. We Serbian radicals do not dispute gays' right to be homosexuals. We don't want them to be discriminated against. However, we are fighting that they publicly express their commitment, with a goal and a tendency to say it is the same as heterosexual. Now I'm going to try to tell you why I think we have the right to ask for it. If we're talking about something called morality, I agree, one of the prominent statesmen is unfortunately not alive, he said, among other things, if you need to swallow frogs, swallow the biggest, and he said the other thing – to whom the morals are, should go to church. Still, I think moral norms apply to this society here. I also agree that Serbian contemporary society is highly differentiated, heterogeneous, individualized, it is also ambitious, and that it is broken into a series of cognitive entities. If you are looking at moral theories, to list those main ethics, which rely on the theory of the social contract from Thomas Hobbs to Russo, it goes and says – respect for the rights and freedom of others is important, with this more or less all of us agree; delontological ethics speaks of duties and that it is necessary to fulfil our duty at all costs. The bucket is here and what is important, its categorical imperative, that I don't speak of it. Kant says one more thing - act so that it will always be a goal, not a means of what is satisfying something that is moral imperative. You have, of course, a conventional ethics, where you also have a theory of utilitarianism, where it is said – everything that produces happiness and satisfaction is useful and prevents pain and suffering. But Mil went further, so he said in his hedonistic attitude of utilitarianism like this – there is a hierarchy of pleasures and the top is the aggregate happiness of many. What is this aggregate happiness of many? That must be the man. And how do you get to a man? Procreation. What's the basis of procreation? The basis of procreation is heterosexual relations and marriage. Now I'm going to read you two quotes and I'm going to finish this exhibit. One is what Filaret Mitropolit Moskovski said – marriage is a mystery in which, with the promise of the groom and the bride of mutual wifely allegiance before the priest and the church, their spouse community is blessed by the example of the spiritual union of Christ and the church. For them, he says, they could be a grace of pure unanimity for the blessed birth and Christian rearing of children. One more thing to tell you. The carelessness of children, offspring, is the greatest of all sins, and it leads to extreme ungodliness. That's what John Goldosty said. Therefore, Serbian radicals adhere to moral standards, and our greatest value is human, and man comes from a heterosexual relationship and marriage. You think differently, go ahead. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15760	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Lidija Vukicevic submitted a letter to Article 1 of the amendment. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Dragan Stevanović. The time available for the parliamentary group is 39 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15761	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, the number of amendments submitted by the SRS and, I would say, their essence does not speak of the SRS' relationship to discrimination, as it is tried by the assembly majority to impose on us about our relationship with this law. You just said when you started saying there's nothing in this law that the Constitution isn't unpredictable. Then the question arises why are we passing a law like this? Today, yesterday, the day before yesterday, that is, all the days that discussed this law, representatives of the congregation's majority who tried to defend the government's stance to adopt such a law have called for a lot of things, even said history is a conquest of freedom. It should be understood as if today at this historic moment, by adopting this law on the ban on discrimination, Serbia is essentially winning certain freedoms. You see, every freedom, I've already said that once, which at a certain point or at a certain level has no limit, turns into its opposite, turns into anarchy. You, Mr. Minister, acting in the government you belong to, you stand for one thing, I would not say liberally, but neoliberal society. In the SRS' view, it is certainly not good and it is something we will fight against and act politically. With the emergence of liberalism throughout history, many people have been engaged, people of faith, science and knowledge, and among them, Mr. Minister, is an American Orthodox theologian, Jeromanah Sarafim Rose. He, speaking and analysing liberalism, has always, in every sentence, brought about liberalisation with Nihilism and Friedrich Nieve. There are two sentences that are very interesting, and in which the whole law that is before us today you can recognize, which are exactly the sentences of Friedrich Nie. "Of all the things that were once considered true, no word should be believed. All that is once despised as wicked, forbidden, detestable, and fatal, all that is now blooming in the ways of truth." In principle, the entire social and circumstances and circumstances in which Serbia is present today can be summed up into these two sentences. If that is not the case, after a law like this has entered into force and if its application occurs, Serbia will certainly look like everything contained in these two sentences. Today we are talking about discrimination at a time when in Serbia, representatives of organisations or political structures that have the support of two to five percent of the citizens of this state in public, and even for this speaker, have crucified those behind whom 95% of the people of this country stand. Orthodox Orthodox Church, Catholic Catholic Church, Jews Jewish, Muslims Islamic etc. This is the first and biggest proof of how much discrimination is essentially present in Serbia today. In Serbia today, the concept of this law is adopted according to the model of the most liberal society in Europe. You are the authority of all the problems Serbia has solved, yet only to adopt EU standards that are present in the Netherlands and that we are dealing with discrimination in Serbia in the way it is done in the Netherlands. I repeat, you've solved everything, just to resolve the status and rights of homosexuals. Mr. Minister, there is discrimination in Serbia objectively. There is discrimination that could have been resolved and that you could have opposed as a government and government, because you had built mechanisms for it, and you don't. I will set up two examples for you, both in front of you and in front of the public of Serbia. You know, Mr. Minister, today when you go to an interview or a job interview at a foreign company or some domestic tycoon company, in an interview they don't ask you if you're gay, they ask you, even in written forms, are you going to get married and are you going to have children? There are mechanisms that Serbia could fight against this kind of discrimination, but there was no political will in the government that you represent. Today, Mr. Minister, it is not a rare occurrence that in Serbia, before you sign a working relationship contract, you have to sign a blank deal to break up a working relationship. You have no courage and political will to face such things. Don't say that this is a law that is in the function of preventing discrimination. We have no intention of awakening your conscience in the government that this law is bad, that you withdraw the law. Nor have you written it, it is true that it is political and political, and you adopt it today in this House, but it is our intention that eventually, if there is anyone else on that side, if there are consciences in the same side, that they definitely do not accept and support this against their conscience, contrary to all those principles -- moral, spiritual, historical and cultural, which make us who we are today, the ones that all in the world recognize and the way we should be forever and remain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15762	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Branimir Djokic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has a People's MP, Dusan Maric. Time available for the SRS parliamentary group 32 minutes and 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15763	Ladies and gentlemen, Branimir Djokic has submitted an amendment to Article 1st position of this law, which reads: "This law regulates the general prohibition of discrimination, forms and cases of discrimination, as well as anti-discrimination proceedings". National MP Branimir Djokic suggests, for simplicity, that after the word 'no', the words 'discrimination' and 'cases' are deleted. The word discrimination is repeated three times in this attitude, which is completely unnecessary. In this bill, the greatest flaw is that the common, fundamentally, massive, very common cases of discrimination, with negligible, socially irrelevant and often non-existent, but media-supervised cases of discrimination. An example of this is this congregation discussion and all that follows the reference of this law in the congregation procedure. For the past two weeks, politicians, media, religious communities in Serbia, the MPs have mostly dealt with one topic – whether gays will have the right to make mutual marriages and make fun of the traditions of the Serb people, mock morals and mock nature. As we discuss false cases of discrimination, we have millions of cases of real discrimination in Serbia that no one is talking about. I'll point to some of these examples. In Serbia, at least 600,000 Serbs exiled from KIM, Croatia and BiH, who have been denied the basic human right to return to their properties and live on their property. Another example -- at least 100,000 Serbs, who remain to live on KIM, live under the terror of NATO's pact and the Kosovo Liberation Army, and under the UN flag. At the beginning of the 21st century, in the heart of Europe, more than 100,000 Serbs live in the Serbian state as in the reserve. They have no right to freedom of movement, no right to process their country, no right to visit religious objects and cemeterys of their ancestors, children are often escorted to school by the military and police. The third case of discrimination is discrimination against the unemployed. In this country, according to official data, there are 700,000 people looking for a job in vain. They've been looking for 70,000 jobs for over 10 years. At the same time, we have cases, thousands of cases of ministers, directors of various party staff, municipal officials who receive two salaries: one salary they receive at a permanent post, which is approximately 2-3 average salaries in Serbia and at the same time receive an additional salary as members of various committees, boards of directors, this was the case here. As you know, some of these salaries are 20-30 times higher than average wages. The fourth case of discrimination, according to official data, in Serbia, 10,000 people from their jobs each month are forced into the street. What does that mean? This means, as we talk today, that 330 workers will be left without bread, who feeds on their family members, because the owners of the companies in which they worked use this global economic crisis as an excuse to get rid of extra workers, practically with the same number of workers doing the same amount of work, those jobs that they've been doing 20 workers so far, will be doing 10, of course, for the same money in the future. There are, according to official data, 500,000 people living below the poverty line. They have nothing to eat. However, their right not to be hungry has not yet been discussed. At the same time, in this country we have people, such as Miskovic, Bek, Peconia, Hamovic, Lazarevic, Karic, Miodrag Kostic, Zoran Dracula, who have hundreds of millions and billions of euros, and no one asks how they earned it. On the one hand, we have half a million hungry, who have nothing to eat, and on the other hand we have people who have billions of euros in assets. One of the drastic forms of discrimination is discrimination in education. Children rich in this country can be educated at the most prestigious schools and universities abroad, in the most expensive world metropolises. On the other hand, poor kids don't have enough money to buy books and pay for a bus ticket to school. An even more difficult form of discrimination is discrimination in health care. The rich have the right to choose hospitals where they will be treated and the doctors who will treat them. The rich have the right to special suites in hospitals. In health care, we have discrimination against unborn children. Children of poor, unborn children of poor in Serbia have far less chance of being born than children of rich people. Discrimination hasn't crossed even the field of sport. In our best clubs, in the teams, they don't play best, but they play dads and mom's sons, whose father's money provided a place in clubs and teams. In order not to use the time of the parliamentary group, the rest I had will be said in the context of the amendments I have submitted.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15764	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Acimovic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been issued by MP Dragan Acimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15765	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have tabled an amendment to the draft law prohibiting discrimination in front of the SRS parliamentary group. In Article 1(1), the word 'general' is deleted. The amendment proposes to amend that member of the draft law in order to strengthen the constitutional provision laid down in Article 21. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia on the ban on discrimination, which reads: 'The Constitution and the law are all equal. Everyone has the right to equal legal protection, without discrimination.' The law on the ban on discrimination is a formation of a ruling coalition, designed to discriminate with 95% of citizens of Serbia who do not think like you. For example, 95% of Serbian citizens have declared to belong to one of the traditional religious communities, of which 85% to the Orthodox church. With these legal projects you want to legalise many organizations that threaten the future of our children, which are associations of homosexuals and various religious sects. By accepting this amendment, as well as other amendments to the SRS, you will improve this legislative project, which should not have actually existed, because this law duplicates already something that exists in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, in Article 21. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15766	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Buh. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been made by the People's Messenger Milorad Buh.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15767	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have tabled an amendment to Article 1(1). Proposal for a law prohibiting discrimination. The amendment was rejected by the government, but I'm going to talk here about a kind of discrimination that also has an international-legal character, but it's primarily important from the domestic point of view that this form of discrimination is being discussed here. This is about discrimination against the refugee population. When I said that discrimination also has an international legal character, we must say that genocide and ethnic cleansing, which are foreseen as difficult forms of discrimination, were present in this population, because the population that was expelled from RSK and the Republic of Croatia was expelled on the basis of genocide policy, ethnic cleansing of the Croatian state and over 400,000 Krajisniks came to the premises of the Republic of Serbia. The total Serb population in Croatia has been away from the hearths where they have lived since the ages, between 500,000 and 800,000. What is discrimination about? Discrimination consists of Croatian state authorities arguing that none of the rights seized, and collective and individual rights, return to the Serb population. On the other hand, Serbian state authorities have the obligation to assist this population in terms of easing the discriminatory activities of the Croatian state. (President: Two minutes. Thank you. I will continue in accordance with the time of the parliamentary group. On the basis of what rules do this country's obligations arise? Namely, Articles 13. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia is scheduled for the Republic of Serbia to protect the rights and interests of its citizens abroad. In addition, we must refer to the provisions of Article 4. The law on refugees of the Republic of Serbia, which says, "The Republic of Serbia provides collective protection of personal, property and other rights and freedoms of refugees and provides them with international and legal protection." Is that what the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia do? They don't. I will now read to you the answer to one of my questions that I referred to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy and the Commissioner for Refugees. I was answered on 14 November last year, with the signature of the first Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Ivica Dacic, who said in response: "Despite the signed documents between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Croatia, which have been obliged by the signatories to take measures to achieve property and social rights of returnees (see the Agreement on the normalisation of relations between Serbia and Croatia, the Agreement on Social Security, the Agreement on Succession, etc.), returnees of Serbian nationality in the Republic of Croatia still face today the inability of access to human rights relating to the return of seized housing rights, the restoration of property, return of usurped agricultural land, the resolution of status issues related to the acquisition of citizenship of the Republic of Croatia, difficulties in recognising labour rights and pension insurance, war crimes and the arrest of returnees, ethnically motivated by crimes and economic abuse of Serbia, which return to Serbia, etc. These are all forms of discrimination that Serbs have in the process of returning their collective and individual rights. What are collective rights that do not return to Serbs under the constitutional and legal system of the Republic of Croatia? The Minister of Human and Minority Rights must pay particular attention because I have not received any information from this ministry, nor on the site, I closely follow any letter on discrimination against Serbs and in Croatia, as national minorities, as well as Serbs who have received citizenship, they are citizens of Serbia, according to the constitutional provision is the obligation of all state authorities to return those rights. What are the rights? The collective rights, the right to equality and constitutionality. This right belonged to us under the 74th Constitution, as well as to Serbs in BiH. Today, Serbs in BiH represent an evenly constitutive people. Serbs from Croatia have no right to do so. According to the system of equality, the same rights for the same state. If it was given by the international community to Serbs in BiH, on the same principle it should have been given the right to receive Serbs in Croatia, they did not get it. Furthermore, the right to equality of language and letters. We don't have that right. The right to a free confession of faith. We don't. In the period from 1995 to today, more than 40,000 Serbs have been forced into Croatia. This is SPC data, based on the confirmations they give to every Orthodox who changes faith and goes into Roman Catholic religion. To talk about the set of property and social rights, the return of property and property rights, then the restoration of burned and stolen houses, apartments, business and industrial facilities, the return of housing rights. Over 50,000 social-owned apartments were owned by Serbs in Croatia. Today, no apartment in social property, according to Croatia's previous and current legislation, has been returned. All Serbian apartments in BiH have been returned. That's the discrimination we need to talk about here. At some average market value, 50,000 apartments, that's two and a half billion. It's a huge asset. The funds will be channelled into the budget system, the financial system of the Republic of Serbia, to strengthen the financial system. This issue must be discussed, Croatia must be forced. There is a certain interest in the international community, which has so far asked Croatia, however, the Serbian authorities have done nothing. Next, free shares, pension payments. The Serbs did not receive pensions between 1991 and 1999. It's over 50,000 pensioners who didn't get pensions during that period. The international community has strictly ordered Croatia to pay these pensions to pensioners who have acquired it. But to this day, no pensions on this basis have been paid. It's due to time I'm interrupting, but I'll continue later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15768	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The MP Radisa Ilic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The People's Messenger Radisa Ilic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15769	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have tabled an amendment to Article 1st Section 1, where the words of 'discrimination' are deleted. The essence of the amendment is, in fact, the essence of everything that the radicals have said about this law, everything the SPC and other traditional religious communities have said, but also medicine. The words 'discrimination', for which I have proposed an amendment to delete, are absolutely unnecessary in the proposed text of Article 1, since it is quite clear that this article refers to discrimination, and this is about protection procedures. The question now is how will protection be carried out in the opposite direction, from someone who draws into his head that he is discriminated against, because he has a sick desire to tell everyone that he's a little or a lot of sexual kinks or his association, so who, with the disgust of driving him away from himself or deny him some term on television, is likely to be subject to the criminal provisions of this law. Such patients will want media, television, special shows, the posters of their gangers' posters, buying expensive billboards, where we'll have to cover our children's eyes when we take them down the street. Who will protect Serbian citizens from those who and how they want this law, in order to carry out their sick vision of freedom of human rights mentally terrorizing citizens, who view basic moral and family values as only right. I don't count social groups here, like disabled people, exiled persons, etc., which were spoken of, but right now, and without this law, there is discrimination against citizens... (President: Two minutes. I'm done. ... who obey the laws, who obey certain rules.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15770	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Jadranko Vukovic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been made by the People's Messenger Milorad Buh. The time available for the SRS parliamentary group is 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15771	A colleague, Jadranko Vukovic, has submitted an amendment to Article 1st paragraph 1, but I will continue where I left off earlier. It is about individual property and social rights that Serbs have acquired under constitutional and judicial legislation of the Republic of Croatia, and the Croatian state is making it impossible to do so. One of the essential, vital rights is the right to free division of shares, i.e. participation in social and state property, which were also provided for by federal regulations from 1990 and 1991, and this right was achieved by Croatian citizens, while Serbs were unable to achieve this right through genocide policy and ethnic cleansing. What's this about? It is that the Croatian state authorities have made it impossible to exercise this right for Serbs who could not physically be present in the Republic of Croatia and apply for the exercise of this right. However, the provisions of the federal regulations have become and other obligations to the rights of the Republic of Croatia's authorities, and they must exercise that right. The Republic of Serbia must help the Serb population in Republika Srpska and the Republic of Croatia to achieve this right. It's about huge resources. According to the government of the Republic of Serbia in persecution, it is a total of 15.5 billion euros, which is supposed to be at the expense of the Serb population's percentage participation. There are huge funds on this issue that need to be discussed, which is a set of discriminatory procedures for Croatian authorities and I advocate and ask the Assembly, the government and state authorities to return these rights to Serbs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15772	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1st amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Damjanovic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by MP Jovan Damjanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15773	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have tabled an amendment to Article 1(1). The word general, the word "forms" and the word "like" are deleted. Reason: the amendment proposes to amend that member of the bill in order to strengthen the constitutional provision laid down in Article 21. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and the prohibition of discrimination, which reads: The Constitution and the law are all equal. Everyone has the right to equal legal protection, without discrimination. Any discrimination, directly or indirectly, is prohibited, on any basis, and particularly based on race, gender, nationality, social origin, birth, religion, political or other belief, property, culture, language, age, mental or physical disability. They are not considered discrimination against specific measures that the Republic of Serbia can introduce to achieve full equality between a person or a group who are in a fundamentally unequal position with other citizens of Serbia." If you'll excuse me, I'd continue to waste my time with the MPs' group. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as far as this law on discrimination is concerned, I can certainly say that if Serbia and the Serbian people, including all its national minorities, want to preserve spirituality and to preserve something that is of importance, I, like the Roma and the Roma nationalities, cannot understand such a law on sex orientation and homosexuality, can not exactly be voted in this country. I want to tell you as a man who's been through more than half the planet of this world and I've come across in Germany where the gypsies, the synti, the Roma, and then they've had one homosexual, as soon as I've come, they've told me he's marked, his name's Mahardo, no one's talking to him, no one's contacting him, he's isolated from the nation he lives in, and they know a lot more. If we want to preserve Serbia's biological future, when we say that the white plague is threatening us, will we preserve our country's biological future with the same partners. All I'm saying is that the World Roma Organization has declared homosexuality a disease. Do I need the Republic of Serbia... I'm sorry, come, so what do you mean, come and tell me, don't interrupt me. There's been a lot of evil done in this Serbia, a lot of what's worse in the world has been done. Should we now import a European epidemic and disease? We Roma, and the SRS isn't that kind of attitude. I'm the vice president of the World Parliament of Roma and a member of the SRS, and this is being defended worldwide. Therefore, in the Roma community, and also in the pure Orthodox Serbian state and the Slovenian peoples, I explicitly tell you, because I've been in contact, homosexualism is a disease and they treat it that way. It's not a waste of democracy, it's not a waste of conversation. But the actual state is what it is, if it's confirmed by the world organization and said so. We need to protect the social categories. We need to protect the people and the citizens who live on the edge of misery, and life and death. I thank my colleagues who have spoken here about the Roma population and the community, as it is on the verge of existence, poverty, that's all right. It's just, as they say, de facto, but de jure has no one to implement, so he wonders, if you're in power, gentlemen, why didn't you do it. We can't talk all the time in this country and talk about the state of play. We need to get in from the actual state of affairs. Please, ten years of Roma living under bridges, ten years living with rats, snakes, ten years of eating food from containers. Is that democracy? I know our country is in a very difficult political, economic, social problem, but please, ten years have passed, we are citizens of this Serbia. We're looking for integration in this country. We ask that we be citizens like all other citizens. We have a great history with the Serbian people. Brothers of Serbs, take care of the Roma community, the minority people, as well as all minority peoples and citizens. Don't let this trouble happen. This is the schismic killing of the Roma people, the stychical disappearance of the Roma people. We don't have a century like the rest of the citizens. So let's see if we can solve the burning issues that are in the country, not bring in something that is not necessary. The SRS will give all necessary and adequate consent and contributions when it comes to visa liberalisation, when it comes to better life, etc. But now this is something the world doesn't know, so let me. In 417 Roma families, where there are 2,128 members, almost all are illiterate, unemployed, living in unsanitary conditions, are mostly necessary accommodations, have many children, their problems are basic documentation, and all children born after 1999 are not included in birth certificates. Such a situation is across Serbia, throughout Belgrade. I can tell you that there are 157 settlements in Belgrade – Apple butt, Mali Leskovac, Depository Rospi Ćupria, Jojkicev Dunavac etc., all of these are similar, even more difficult situations than we have for Gazela. The gazelle's still good. You haven't visited, I've visited, and I'm giving you the fact that you're in the field. I'm asking the state, I'm asking the ministry to do what needs to be done, because this is also a kind of heavy discrimination. I spoke to Mr. Minister Chiplic, Minister of Human and Minority Rights, and I spoke to him in a short period, but I concluded that he really wants to integrate the Roma people and help in all areas where his ministry can. That is why I urge other ministries to do what Minister Ciplic does. Thank you very much. I'll get back to you later.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15774	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The MP Momcilo Duvnjak submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Vukovic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a National MP, Slobodan Vukovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15775	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of Parliament, honourable citizens, on the basis of Article 147. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I submit an amendment to the draft law on the prohibition of discrimination. The amendment reads: ''In Article 1st position, 1st word, general word, cases and words, as they are deleted. ''As we've all been here, the speakers so far, we've been paying attention to the reasons why so many amendments are being submitted, I'm just going to say that this law is extremely bad, that the number of amendments shows the number of objections we have. At first, I would say to Minister Chiplic that in his earlier presentation he used one sentence that immediately questioned this law. You've turned our attention that we're afraid of something that's not there. In Article 6, which is not the subject of my presentation right now, we're just asking to delete something that's hypothetical, and you look at it and plead to that circumstance. I would like to say that at this point in Belgrade, there is a serious discrimination. Roma children live in cardboard settlements, as my predecessor used to say, and these laws quickly open up the space to abuse some laws that should be implemented and be good. This law hides that Article 21, which is his ultimate goal, that something that is deviant, which is bad for Serbia, for this people, is implemented in action and that the teachers will have the right to pressure our children, if they are homosexuals or some other deviating tendencies. I'll draw attention to another kind of discrimination under similar laws... (President: Two minutes, thank you. I'll only use 30 seconds from the time that belongs to the party. I would like to point out here that Radet Djuran, a Belgrade resident, has been kidnapped by children under the Law on the Protection of the Rights of the Child, by the Centre for Social Labour of the City of Belgrade, with the assistance of the Centre for Social Labour of the Palilul municipality, which Minister Rasim Ljajic has also been informed. And since January 15, when a man broke his leg, to this day children do not go to school, even though they were regular students, they regularly went to kindergarten and had all the worries. The man has a 200 square-square house, a working relationship, a workable one, and from the Centre for Social Work marked several years ago for a person who got exclusively the right to care for those children. His kids were kidnapped the moment he broke his leg and asked the Social Services Center for crutches. Everything else is a lie. I'm asking the minister to make an urgent statement on this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15776	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Lidija Dimitrijevic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a folk letter from Lydia Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15777	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, as can be seen, the MPs of the SRS Parliament Club have tabled a large number of amendments to the draft law on the ban on discrimination. I have submitted an amendment to Article 1(1) and suggested that after the word "no" be deleted, the word "discrimination" should be deleted. By who knows which time I will repeat our position that the SRS is against every kind of discrimination, and for the express respect of human rights and freedoms guaranteed by the Constitution. Serbian radicals do not justify making any difference and mistreatment of people. On the contrary, we believe that, in addition to respecting the Constitution as the highest legal act, it is also necessary to act in accordance with moral principles and values. We are against any action that can hurt human dignity, upset and humiliate a person, cause hatred, inequality, or intolerance on any basis. I would like to point out that by pointing to the negativity of this bill, the SRS does not in any way resist the guarantee of one's rights. We have repeatedly pointed out that priority in this society regarding the exercise of all their rights must be given to persons with disabilities, members of national minorities, children, old people. They must ensure the protection of all generally recognised human rights and must be treated in a way that respects the principle of equality. On the other hand, when we talk about the provisions of this bill concerning the ban on religious discrimination and discrimination based on sexual orientation, there are still inaccurate formulations in these areas... (President: Two minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15778	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Zivkov. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has the People's MP Dragan Zivkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15779	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 1 of this Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination, Article 1, which reads in Article 1st paragraph 1, after the word 'no', 'discrimination' and 'forms', are deleted. In the light of the amendment, it is proposed that the draft law, in order to strengthen the constitutional provision laid down in Article 21. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia on the ban on discrimination, which reads: "The Constitution and the law are all equal. Everyone has the right to equal legal protection, without discrimination. Any discrimination, directly or indirectly, is prohibited, on any basis, and particularly based on race, gender, nationality, social origin, birth, religion, political and other beliefs, property, culture, language, age, mental or physical disability. “ In response to the Government why the amendment I have submitted is not accepted – the amendment is not accepted for the reason that the proposed provision lays down the content of the law, and the bill contains, among other things, the provisions on forms of discrimination. Since it is in this way responsible, in order not to accept in any way any amendment submitted by the SRS, in our discussions on this law, we have brought forth many of the things that this law stumbles and we believe that this law will not reduce discrimination, but will increase even further. There will be more discrimination in Serbia than ever before. This bill is anti-constitutional, legally pointless and impractical. It insults the traditional moral understandings not only of the Serbian people, but of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, which we have shown through our presentations, certainly with our good and precise explanations that our MPs presented before the SRS. But the government and the minister remain deaf to all this, and I believe that no amendment that the SRS has submitted will accept only for the reason that it has submitted them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15780	Thank you, too. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15781	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to try, within these two minutes as far as I can to explain the amendments, to trouble one claim we heard from Mr Chiplic, which is that a very high-quality public debate has been conducted on this bill, that everyone, all relevant state and social institutions, has been consulted, and that nothing is disputed about the draft law. First of all, it is obvious that this public debate is not being conducted in the ruling coalition itself. It is obvious that in the ruling coalition and that there are dissonant tones, that one part of the ruling coalition proposes this bill and defends it, quite frankly, most of it by official duty, because it must. The second part of the ruling coalition has made it clear to the MPs and citizens of Serbia that under no circumstances will they vote in favour of the bill. The fact itself makes it clear that it is not without a public debate, but that the debate is not even being conducted within the ruling coalition, because if it were run, we would not come to a situation where one part of the ruling coalition supports this law and that the other part of the ruling coalition stands up against the law. If a public debate is being held, and if the ruling coalition is making everything clear, and it is not clear much of it, the question is – how is it possible for the draft law on the ban on discrimination, which passed a very high-quality, successful public debate, consulted all social factors, all political parties making up the ruling coalition, to have an amendment on the proposal of the ruling coalition, such as Gordana Rajkov, Snezana Stojanović-Plasic, Zoran Bortic and many other MPs of the ruling coalition? So it's not clear to you yourself what it's about and what you're going to have to vote for in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15782	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs Milos Aligrudic, Donka Banović and Zeljko Tomic together submitted to the 1st amendment. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is Mrs. Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15783	On behalf of the DSS parliamentary group, together with two other colleagues, submitted an amendment to Article 1 and the amendment is quite simple and clear. With this amendment, we propose that the proposal for this law, which provides for the establishment of a special service of trustees for the protection of equality, since we consider it unnecessary, states that all what the law foresees is being done by the already existing Citizens' Protector. It can also be by analogy, because when we adopted the Personal Data Protection Act, since we already had and we have the Trustee for access to information of public importance, he and his entire service were tasked with also the Law on the Protection of Personality Data. We think this is an unnecessary increase in the administration. It is not necessary to establish a new service and trustee for the protection of equality, but rather the job should be done by the Protector of Citizens. This law provides for this future service to have as many as 30 to 40 workers. It's absolutely unnecessary, especially if our mouths are full of stories about how the state has to save. We have had a chance to hear these days that one ministry recommends to the courts, even sends a letter to the Supreme Court and to the district courts, to suspend all proceedings in the field of labour disputes, to save the state and to keep certain businesses from being threatened. I think this memo is a shame and it is a shame how the executive authority of this country interferes in the work of courts and judicial authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15784	Thank you, too. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of Parliament Marko Milenkovic submitted to the 1st amendment. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marina Ragush. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Goran Mihajlovic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is Mr. Goran Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15785	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have tabled an amendment to Article 1(2). I will read the first original version of the article: ''This law establishes the Trustee for the Protection of Equality, as an independent state body, independent in the conduct of the tasks set out in this law. ''Our MP group believes that the word - an independent must be deleted from this proposal and that Article 1 in the new version reads : This law establishes the Trustee as an independent state body in the conduct of the affairs set out in this law. He can't be an independent trustee for the simple reason that his task is just to enforce the members of the laws that are proposed here and the law itself is filled with many misunderstandings and logical misunderstandings, and he's in collapsing with multiple members. For example, Article 33(2) says that the trustee submits a report to the National Assembly once a year. If Mrs. Dejanovic or you, Mr. Minister, ask the trustee to file a report, he will simply appeal to Article 1 and say he is independent. Independence cannot be understood in a literal sense of the word, for it is certain that as soon as it corresponds to the National Assembly, that trustee cannot be independent. Furthermore, Article 33 of point 9 provides the possibility for the Trustee to recommend to public authorities and other persons the measure to achieve equality. In that article 33... (President: Time.) I'll only use thirty seconds from the parliamentary group... So there's no reverse possibility that someone is affecting the work of the trustees, which means that this word 'non-independent' has to be deleted from this article anyway. This now raises a number of other issues related to the identity of the trustees. So it's said there that, in addition to being a lawyer, it should have ten years of work experience in the field of protection of human rights, so you discriminate against other lawyers who weren't in this area that they can't apply for a place of trust, it's a typical kind of discrimination in employment. I would then ask one logical question – what will Mrs. Natasa Kandic, Mrs. Biserko and the rest of the Serbian people do, because they are now NGOs? If the government establishes an institution of trustees, then it is logical to ask whether these NGOs should exist at all and what they are dealing with, because if there is an institution, then they will be completely excess.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15786	Anyone else want a word? Yeah. Miss Marina Ragush. The time of the SRS parliamentary group is eight minutes and 40 seconds. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15787	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Secretary, it's good to see you here in the O.R. I must remind you that you owe me a few answers to a few questions from last time. I hope that during the debate in detail, we will hear your answer. Not to waste time provided for by the parliamentary group, therefore, what should indeed be, conditionally speaking, another picture of a Serbian society that should be based on the Constitution of guaranteed rights, especially when it comes to Article 21(3), which says that any discrimination, directly or indirectly, is prohibited, on any basis, and particularly on the basis of race, gender, nationality, social origin, birth, religion, political or other belief. The SRS, of course, thinks it is a Serbian society and that it needs a law to fight discrimination because Serbian society reflects discrimination in all areas of social exposure. Since I am mostly talking about concrete examples, one of the most flagrant examples of political discrimination is, of course, the Vojislav Seselj case, not only because the SRS claims it, but also because we can now point out other sources. You had a former prosecutor, chief UN prosecutor, Mrs. Del Ponte, who testified that unfortunately, the murdered prime minister and former DS President Mr Djindjic recommended that Karli del Ponte take Dr. Seselj to The Hague and not return him. Another source that also speaks in favour of the worst example of political discrimination, therefore, the full discrimination of one political opponent of the majority who came to power after October 5th, is the source discussed in the already famous book "Saccess for Serbia". This is, I assume you know, the former head of Belgrade's Ubiquitous, Mr. Zoran Mijatovic, who was certainly not fond of the SRS ever. He's in one part of Fenomena Seselj talking about this kind of political discrimination, designed by DOS. Seselj undoubtedly was, he said, a phenomenon not only for Clinton's headquarters, Seselj will be engaged intensively by DOS leaders at the time of the campaign for the republic's parliamentary elections. There were also those, according to the former head of Belgrade's Udba, Mr. Zoran Mijatovic, who, after coming to power, believed not only that Seselj should be extradited to The Hague, but also to ban the SRS's activity. These facts did not go very well in public, but everything was difficult because they had a well-organized party and its leader against them. Our deep political belief is that the parties gravitating over the former DOS, which continue to rule in Serbia, did not give up. The recent example is proof of that. He says – a special tenacity in proving the criminal activity of the Radical Party was expressed by Minister Dusan Mihajlovic, with constant insistence, which is a direct interference in the work of the Secret Service, that both resistors try to crack up something about the participation of Seselj's radicals in war crimes. Among other things, Mr. Mijatovic says, "How come you, Professor, have absolutely no record of the crimes of Seselj's volunteers? The whole of Serbia knows something about it. ''Of course, Mr. Mihajlovic was very persistent about it, found two witnesses at last. Mr. Mijatovic resisted such behaviour and tried to use the secret service for political purposes. As Mr. Mijatovic expected capital witnesses of the crime, he did not get it, they were only statements of people who were blackmailed to speak so for their own benefit, he actually then very significantly resented the then minister of police. But regardless of all of this, what is essential is the following – that Dr Vojislav Seselj is not only after Mr. Mijatovic's claim in the book "Sacred for Serbia", not just after writing Carla del Ponte, former chief prosecutor of The Hague tribunal, was politically discriminated against. The indictment was written in Serbia and was sent to The Hague tribunal to get off Serbia's political scene. On whose orders? Directly on Washington's orders. So, given that I have given you an example concerning the president of the SRS, currently the strongest opposition parties in Serbia, the SRS voiced doubts, and also concerns, given that the Assembly is slowly but certainly turning into the disciplinary commission of Boris Tadic, and Serbia because of the threat and discrimination of Serbia's economic and social rights in the gulag of Mr Boris Tadic, that this law on the fight against discrimination will unfortunately only be a dead letter on paper for most Serbian citizens, and for political non-insistent beatings.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15788	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is Mr. Dejan Mirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15789	Ladies and gentlemen, the amendment has been submitted to Article 1(2). It's a bill of law. The purpose of the amendment is to point to the inadequacy of the bill's proposal at a time when even the Brussels authorities acknowledge in Serbia that there has been an economic crisis and that it will last several years. For example, Mr Ljajic, the minister in charge of social policy, said in a daily newspaper yesterday that the crisis would last longer than was thought. On the other hand, in essence, the bill deals with one marginal group at a time when the economic crisis has affected our entire country, and it does not focus on political discrimination which is the country's biggest problem when it comes to human rights. Of course, first of all, I mean limiting freedom of expression, which is guaranteed by the European Convention on Human Rights of the 1950s. The opposition parties, first of all, but also intellectuals who disagree with the ruling pro-Bristian dogma, are on the verge of this practice. Unfortunately, we have seen that it is the minister who is in charge of human rights who has the most to protect them who proposed them on 8 October 2008 in a statement for "News" that MPs are deprived of their mandates based on political, not legal interpretation of freedom of expression, because this interpretation, in his version, would be done by the ruling majority in the Assembly, not by the judicial authorities. Therefore, without reference to international and legal principles, the practice of the European Court of Human Rights, the practice of the United States Supreme Court and Article 19. The universal declaration of human rights, the minister essentially suggests that anyone who disagrees with the ruling dogmoma and criticises the proselytic ideology, the policy of this government, may be charged with a politically incorrect speech that disturbs... (President: Time.) ..... Brussels Idyll in Serbia and spread enmity towards Brussels. It is, in fact, ladies and gentlemen, precisely a threat to freedom of expression and to the choking of democracy by a minister who unfortunately is in charge of human rights.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15790	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Maric. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is Mrs. Vesna Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15791	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, based on Article 47. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I have submitted an amendment to the draft law on the prohibition of discrimination. In Article 1, the second word 'equality' is replaced by the words 'discrimination', and the word'state' is deleted. The amendment proposes to amend that member of the draft law in order to strengthen the constitutional provision laid down in Article 21. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia on the prohibition of discrimination. The SRS wants all changes to the law to be based on the fact that the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, as an expression of the political agreement between all relevant political forces in Serbia, has clearly defined the forms of discrimination, that this is very broadly covered and that the law, which is an expression of the political will of individual lobbys and centres of power in Serbia, does not need to be reviewed or demoted. The law is absolutely in the function of promoting freedom, which the Constitution cannot define and treat and which are in absolute contrast to our spiritual, traditional and moral values, in which the Constitution itself has emerged. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15792	Thank you, too. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15793	Ladies and gentlemen, I have tabled an amendment to Article 2 of this proposal, which reads: 'This law establishes the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality, as an independent state body, independent of the conduct of the affairs laid down by this law. 'In my opinion, there is one illogicality here. I believe, if it is a state body, it is hard to believe that it can be an independent and independent body in its affairs. For these reasons, I suggest that this term "state authority" be simply, because I think it's too high, deleted. Let it remain "an independent body independent in the conduct of the tasks established by this law". I am taking the opportunity to draw the attention of Minister Chiplic to one, in my opinion, a drastic case of discrimination against workers in a working relationship. Here I have confirmation received by worker Stojan Stojkovic from the Tool and Machine Factory "Gosa" from Smederjevska Palanka. It says: "The certificate, which confirms Stojković Stojan, worker 313 "''''''''Gosa'', the Tool and Machine Production Factory, has for the period of 11th, 12th month in 2008 and the first month in 2009 net personal income of 8,500 dinars, an average of 2,833,33 dinars. The certificate shall be issued for the purpose of exercising the right to treatment and for other purposes cannot be used’. It's signed by a referent, some Cvetkovic or some kind of Cvetkovic. I ask Mr. Minister to exercise his right and examine this case and protect Mr. Stojkovic's rights and all other employees of Gossa. By the way, I expected Mr Dragan Shormaz to come forward on this issue, as he is an MP from the Danube County. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15794	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? The People's MP, Mr. Dragan Shormaz, called for the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15795	A colleague, Novakovic, needs a replica, directly mentioned. I mean, it turns out that my DSS... (Zoran Krasic, from the place: Do you mention me? Yes, Mr. Krassic, I mention... Because it turns out that we at the DSS don't deal with employee and employee problems. Of course, we collect it all, Mr. Maric, and of course we're looking for a way, but how? How can we help when the country's executive power is incompetent? When they don't, or here they just increase public spending. We support your amendment, because what will be the introduction of new authorities, new services. Then, when the trustee is introduced, he has to make his own departments, and then they are discriminated against on this issue, and they are discriminated against according to that, the budget has to be financed – means that public spending increases. A little while ago, you're also wondering what Natasa Kandic, some of you, will do. He has something to do – he will give Ivica Dacic orders to continue to arrest those who defended the country from bombing, the lawless, the NATO Pact, and I was among them. Maybe Dacic will arrest me too? Who knows, in a country like that? Because I ask from the pay phone questions to them from the executive authority, when they are unable to solve anything, and they don't even ask questions. It is decided by someone else, one who formed them, both Natasa Kandic and such. (Zoran Krasic, from the place: I am discriminated here, they do not give me their word.) He called me, Mr. Novakovic. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15796	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Mladenovic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is Mr. Bojan Mladenovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15797	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, citizens of Serbia, homosexuals have not been discriminated against so far. They have absolutely every right – to go to school, to college, to work, to have health care, to be completely equal and equal with other citizens. They were privileged in one segment, it's not mentioned at all these days, which is - military service. By acknowledging that they were homosexuals, they were given a postponement of the military term a year, then again a year, and later they were permanently released from these obligations. This means, when the law is passed – they are all equal, they are all equal and they will have to go to the military and will be subject to mobilization. We'll soon have an army full of homosexuals. How will this affect our country's defence and will it affect the big question? There will be love misery between the soldiers themselves, there will be adultery and so forth, there will be abnormal phenomena. Imagine a situation where one soldier falls in love with another, so they love the barracks, so they kiss and imagine when he breaks up, how will it affect relations between them and relations in the army itself? And their sorrows of love will be heard by other soldiers, both corporals and others. And there will be jealousy, and if anyone steals a boy or falls in love with a soldier, and love is not mutual, it is not returned to him—it will be very difficult for them. Visiting a soldier, ladies and gentlemen, or on an oath, we can expect that both boys and men of war will soon arrive next to mothers, fathers, girls, brothers and sisters. [[Applause]] Where's all this going? Where's Serbia going? We'll get a nadal army, a nadal Serbia, we'll get the popularity of homosexualism, which absolutely can't bring anything -- neither good to Serbia nor to the citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15798	It would have been good for us to look back at your amendment, but everyone has a right to talk. Ambassador Ljubomir Kragovic submitted to the 1st amendment. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Krstin. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is Mr. Milorad Krstin. Would you like a word, Mr. Kristin?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15799	Mr. Chairman, I haven't stopped for a pay phone yet, and you've turned me on for seconds. In front of the SRS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment, but, Mr Chiplic, as the Government itself, I do not think that you are taking much care of these problems that have already begun to pressure Serbia, I mean this economic crisis, the financial crisis, which, according to Governor Jelasic, will follow us safely by the end of 2011, and I am convinced that it will last longer. To cross over, I have a lot of time left, Serbian citizens, just about a minute and about 12 seconds left for the amendment. I'll try to explain it. It's hard for me, because many people won't understand it, especially you ministers, because so much in the new Rules of Procedure I can talk about this amendment, which is two minutes. In Article 1, paragraph 2, the word 'equality' is replaced by the words 'equal rights', and the word 'own-minded' and the words 'confirmed by this law' are deleted. Explanatory - this amendment is directed to specify more precisely the name of the trustee for the protection of the rights set up by this law. Mr Minister, if the proposer proposes that the name of the law be - a law prohibiting discrimination, then, according to the same name, it is more correct to establish a body for the protection of the rights set up by this law – a trustee for the protection of the right of equality, because the same right of equality is the constitutional category established by Article 21. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, or the trustee's name, should be in connection with a new name -- a trustee for protection against discrimination. I think the name would be more relevant to the essence and purpose of this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15800	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I guess the government didn't come forward. The word is Mr. Petar Jojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15801	Mr. Vice-President, Mr. Minister, the proposed amendment aims to bring the Constitution of Article 21 into line with the bill, because the Constitution provides for equality, not equality. That's why I think this amendment is acceptable, because it actually corrects what is not reflected in the Constitution. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, as far as this bill is concerned, the provisions of this law are in direct conflict with the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 18. The law may lay down a way to exercise these rights only if it is constitutionally explicitly provided. The second part of the Constitution in the 64th article is currently engaged and guarantees basic human rights. In addition, in 18 laws and regulations, I found that all basic human, political and civil and minority rights were protected. As far as this law is concerned, I must say that he is not consistent, because this law disrupts the legal order. How? You have a case to be conducted in front of the trustee, in front of the court, in front of the judge for violations, and taken to three different levels. That's why this law doesn't have to be accepted anyway. What Mr. Martinovic said will happen to those promoters and those protagonists who advocate this will happen to them that their sons with daughters-in-law will come to them, but they will have to deal with beards and mustaches, so they will have to pay for their journey and honeymoon. That's what's not acceptable to us. Mr. Vice President, allow me, I have been invited tonight by the citizens of this very law to speak in the inhabited town of Mramorak, the Kovin municipality, in which the topic will be just discrimination, and discrimination concerns the Kovin municipality, where individual agricultural producers have been discriminated against and have not been able to participate equally in the lease of state agricultural land. It was taken by thieves, robbers and tycoons. They do, but they don't pay the state. That's the biggest problem. It's discrimination. Don't favor gays now, because they can't be any priority from our citizens, farmers, workers and peasants. Our peasants, our farmers were in three wars where they took part in pulling Serbia out of the mud. Now the villagers have to save this country and provide a certain existence for our citizens. No priority with this law, no luck with this law. With this government of Serbia, I order Serbian citizens, donates gay law and destroys the family of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15802	You have forced me to warn you, on the basis of article 104, of the dignity of the congregation and not to use future expressions that are offensive. Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radica Jocic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is Mrs. Radica Jocic. The time foreseen for the SRS parliamentary group is 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15803	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the respected citizens of Serbia, I have submitted an amendment before the SRS parliamentary group to Article 1. Proposal for a law prohibiting discrimination in accordance with Article 2. I have proposed by amendment that the word 'equality' be replaced by 'discrimination' and that the word'self-sufficient' be deleted. Thus, Article 1(2) would read - this law establishes a trustee for protection against discrimination as a state body independent in the conduct of the tasks set out in this law. I don't see why the trustee, by the way of an anti-constitutional category, who you're setting up by this bill of non-discrimination law, would be called the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality. The most logical thing to do is to mark it as a protection against discrimination, which I have proposed with the amendment. I also believe that if the same sentence of the bill states that the trustee is both independent and independent, one of these words is not necessary. If the trustee is independent in performing the tasks set out in this law, he has limited independence as part of the state apparatus in any case, so I suggested that the word'self-sufficient' be deleted. These days since the debate on this bill began, we have all witnessed in the Serbian public that everyone has started to highlight various aspects of discrimination against various social groups, which have already been discussed here many times. I have one question – will the trustee for the protection of equality, as you call it, or protection against discrimination, as we propose, be able to protect women, but also men, children, but also adults, disabled, but also those who are not sick, but also healthy, unemployed, but also employed, homosexuals, but also heterosexuals, displaced and exiled, but also those who are on their hearths, homeless and those in their homes, Roma and Serbs, poor and rich, old, but also young, Democrats, and radicals? Ladies and gentlemen, in front of the SRS, I would like to point out once again that the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia in its 21st article guarantees that all citizens of Serbia are equal, that any discrimination, directly and indirectly, is prohibited, on any basis and whatever the condition of this law is on Serbia's path to the EU, I do not think that it is absolutely contributing to the better and safer position of the individual in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15804	The First Amendment was submitted by MP Vlad Milojkovic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee believes the amendment is possible. Mr. Vlada Milojkovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15805	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 1(2). The draft law on the prohibition of discrimination, which reads: the words 'for the protection of equality', the word'self-sustaining' and the words 'confirmed by this law' are deleted. The SRS believes that this and this law is bad and that it should be rejected, which shows a large number of amendments to the SRS. The introduction of trustees as an independent state body can be very dangerous. Ladies and gentlemen, when selecting a trustee, is it possible not to make a mistake, so choose on such an important function as paedophiles, homosexuals, or who already knows what kind of patient? Whose right will he protect and won't he be biased? This law will protect a trustee like that. All of this from the ruling majority doesn't bother you, given that in the light of this law you state that the basis for the adoption of this law is to obtain a white Schengen visa and faster entry into the EU, not to protect citizens. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia itself protects the citizens enough, only to be respected. This bill of law has served you to legalize a group of people who have a different sexual commitment, and that all other aspects of discrimination do not matter to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15806	Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by Ambassador Ognjen Mihajlovic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee believes the amendment is possible. Mr. Ognjen Mihajlovic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15807	Before I address the citizens of Serbia, Mr. Chairman, I would like to ask you a question, to distract me, because I do not want to be punished again. A moment ago, in the presentation of Mr. Jojic, you found some offensive words, would you be kind enough to tell me exactly what word it is, so I don't happen to repeat it? Can you tell me, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15808	Go ahead, your amendment is up.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15809	Which word is it that I don't accidentally use it, please?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15810	If you want to talk about the amendment, your time is running out.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15811	I will respect the citizens of Serbia, and I will tell them that I have submitted an amendment to Article 1(2) that begins like this. With this amendment, we propose to amend that member of the draft law in order to strengthen the constitutional provision laid down in Article 21. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia on the prohibition of discrimination - before the Constitution and the law all are equal, etc. And in that sense. So, we already have the Constitution as the supreme act of this country, a legal act that seems to know nothing about this law, does not recognise it and automatically places it in the order of low-level laws. However, I would draw citizens' attention to one more important issue than homosexualism, whatever it means in that Latin language. We have a word of our own, I suppose it's offensive to you, and I think it's common, that's gay. So, I want to draw the citizens' attention to something far more serious. Namely, the Supreme Court forwarded to the district courts a letter from the Ministry of Economy requesting that all trials be suspended and the execution of judicial decisions concerning working relations be frozen. If these laws were to be passed, the courts would allow the defendant's employers...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15812	Thank you. Your time is up. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Ljubenovic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee believes the amendment is possible. Mr Tomislav Ljubenović has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15813	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, this law puts the cultural and religious feelings of Serbian citizens in one subordinate position. I have submitted an amendment to Article 1(2). Proposal for a law prohibiting discrimination. Article 1(2) states: this law establishes the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality, as an independent state body, independent of the conduct of the tasks set out in this law. I have proposed that the first word "state" be deleted in that position. The proposer of this law wants to establish another new state body. The need for such state bodies does not exist, especially because the protection of equality needs to be dealt with by judicial authorities, and there is also a Protector of Citizens. The establishment of trustees for the protection of equality will result in unnecessary duplication of competence and an increase in the state administration. At a time when the economic crisis has hit us the last thing we need is an increase in the apparatus, because this increases public spending, and every day we hear stories about the government's efforts to reduce public spending. There is talk about the possibility of a reduction in wages and pensions, and on the other hand, new state bodies are being created that are not needed. In addition, the trustee for the protection of equality is an anti-constitutional category, i.e. The establishment of such a state body is not foreseen by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The adoption of this amendment would benefit greatly because, among other things, significant savings that are needed at this time of the economic crisis would be achieved.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15814	Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Sladjan Mijaljevic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee believes the amendment is possible. The word is submitted by Mr. Sladjan Mijaljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15815	The Honorable Presidency, dear colleagues, on behalf of the SRS on Article 1st paragraph 2, I have submitted an amendment to delete the words 'equality' and to replace the words 'discrimination' and the words 'own-state' and 'confirmed by this law' are deleted. Of course, the government has rejected this amendment with an explanation that the trustee as a state body that protects against discrimination must be independent and independent in his work. I have submitted an amendment with an explanation where we propose that this amendment strengthen Article 21. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Of course, next to article 21. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, there are other laws that regulate certain issues, certain institutions that implement certain laws, so that a person who only finds out and proposes certain proposals for certain events, and does not have some serious executive or legislative authority, is simply doubling jobs, opening new jobs, strengthening the administration. Obviously, in these difficult times, when there's less work in those factories that you haven't opened, in those jobs that you haven't opened, you're trying to hire your listeners, your friends and your party apparatus somewhere. Perhaps some of the leaders of some NGOs, who are slowly losing certain to say the market, in this way you want to foster, so that some Natasha, some Sonja and others like them may become exactly trustees for the protection of certain human rights, and the question is just how many human rights have been trampled.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15816	National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 1st amendment. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has the vice-president of Ms. Natasa Jovanovic's assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15817	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, on behalf of the SRS, I asked that the word "equality" be replaced by the words "no discrimination". I checked with my colleague Mr Martinovic, as an expert on constitutional law and on all other legal areas, when, because I wasn't sure, the word "equality" began in the constitutional and legal theory with us to appear. He told me it was after World War II. Of course, it's a communist coin. I can tell you that in any committee, or even on the board of the Council of Europe, there is no committee that has in its name the word 'equal', but 'equal opportunities'. Now, that's left to be prescribed by Broz's constitutions, so we have a provision of the Constitution regarding gender equality, equal opportunities for women and men. However, Mr Chiplic, this is not the case in Serbia today, although we have 19 years of multi-partyism. A few days ago, our colleague from the previous assembly called, and now the chairman of the SRS parliamentary group in the Kingdom and at that time Deputy Mayor Vesna Vukajlović-Nikolic, was beaten by a colleague. A colleague was once a member of the DSS, formed a group of citizens, a certain Ljubisa Jovisevic, came across Vesna Vukalovic-Nikolic just because he didn't like the fact that the SRS defends the law on local self-government and defends the provisions of the law that DS, with the help of those caught after a few months to cross the political scene of some municipality and city, is trying to make. That's exactly what your "yellows" do in all the cities where they get their hands on such opportunities. (President: Thank you. Mr. Novakovic, I'm going to use another 30 seconds of this time.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15818	There's no more time. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Dušanka Plecevic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a folk letter from Mrs Dušanka Plecevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15819	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 1. The bill, to add a new position 3 after Article 2, which reads: "No provision of this law on the prohibition of discrimination, guaranteed by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, can be restricted, nor can it be waived in the event of a war or emergency". I consider it necessary for the prohibition of discrimination to be carried out at all times, even in those cases, because freedom and equality are guaranteed by Article 21. The Constitution, which speaks of a ban on discrimination. If this amendment is not adopted, it may occur that, in the event of an emergency or a war situation, the provisions of this law are misused and discriminatory proceedings are conducted under various excuses, particularly on a political and national basis. We already had this practice in seducing the state of emergency and police action of Sabe after the murder of Zoran Djindjic. In the action, as is known, about 12,000 people were arrested. Unfounded and arrested citizens have not been told what status they are in, as their rights depend on it. No one knew if he was detained or suspected, that their detention was not informed of the family, or that they had the right to an attorney. Of those arrested and processed, a small number were brought into some connection with the murder of Zoran Djindjic, while others were ordinary criminals. However, most of the detainees and detainees had nothing to do with murder or crime, which means that the action was designed and led against political inexperiences by the Doss regime. Due to this political violence and persecution, taxpayers have paid or will only pay tens of millions of dinars to the victims. This 2003 experience requires caution, and regardless of the Parliament's decision to depart from human and minority rights in this limited time, the possibility of discrimination on a legal basis will at least be excluded.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15820	Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Todorovic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is Mr. Dragan Stevanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15821	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have hereby amended myself to add to Article 1 after Article 2 of Article 3 which reads: "The Commissioner is obliged to adhere to the work and to protect human and minority rights and freedoms from Articles 18 to 81. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia.' As I said earlier when I was saying, Mr. Minister, these amendments to the SRS are not an expression or a reflection of the SRS to the phenomenon of discrimination, but precisely according to the law that you have brought before us MPs. I think if you read or watched these amendments and arguments, you could see that the SRS absolutely insists on constitutional norms. Why? We believe, because of the fact that the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia was brought into one atmosphere of the general political consensus, through it developed all mechanisms that protect the rights and freedoms of all forms of minorities on the one hand, and on the other hand we believe that the mechanisms which protect these same minorities are developed or defend against all forms of discrimination. What also gives us the right to express concern for this law is and, let's say, the conclusion that you have stated in the light of this law, which is that this proposal of the general anti-discrimination law is sufficiently elastic and that it opens up the possibility of adopting some laws that will provide regulation for certain specific areas and special categories of persons. We believe that, in this context, the law is quite indeterminate, that a wide range of freedoms are given that the current government in Serbia will abuse and from these facts there will be laws on the legalisation of gay marriages and all other social and other deviating phenomena that, objectively, you want to live in this society.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15822	Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Mr. Momir Markovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15823	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first of all, to warn you that in Article 21 of this law, this law is unconstitutional, because I have looked at all the members from 18 to 81. The constitution of Serbia and nowhere does it say that sexual commitment is not covered by the Constitution. I have submitted an amendment to Article 1, where I request that Article 2 is added to the position of 3 which is to be read – the trustee must not submit to the function and the conduct of the business under his jurisdiction of his sexual orientation and is therefore obliged to inform the public of his sexual definition. Namely, what's going to happen? In this grumbling towards Europe, you are setting up obstacles to yourself and you will be in a position to stop Serbia from entering Europe because of these obstacles. First, the trustee institution does not mean only one man, but means a pyramid around which at least two or three thousand more people will be employed, and you have already received a warning from the EU to reduce public spending, which means that you are also reducing the state bureaucratic apparatus. In an explanation why you do not accept the amendment you are referring to Article 18. The labour law, where it says a ban on discrimination. However, I must warn you, since I said that the Constitution defines it a little differently, that not even this part of the Labour Act, Article 18. The labour law isn't constitutional. The Constitution is a supreme legal act in which all the laws and legal acts adopted by this State must be incorporated. The Constitution cannot be changed to make the law...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15824	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15825	Can I use the other three minutes?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15826	He can't. National MP Marina Toman proposed amendments to one amendment. 1st and 28th. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is Miss Marina Toman.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15827	Ladies and gentlemen, this amendment requires that Article 1 relating to the basic provisions of the law, i.e. to regulate the subject matter of the law, is added after Article 2. In this law, at the same time as individual representatives of the government announce a reduction in the state administration, the establishment of a new institution -- a trustee for equality, as a separate state body independent in its work in the performance of the business. How independent he is in his work shows the practice so far when it comes to these institutions. Article 3 would suggest that the trustee must possess general health skills and prove every six months that he fulfils that condition. The amendment suggests adding the same attitude after point 3 as point 4 in Article 28. In fact, because of the area regulated by the trustee for equality, it is very important that he, in addition to the qualities listed in point 3, that he has high moral and professional quality, must also possess general health skills. The amendment proposing to amend that member would strengthen the constitutional provisions laid down in Article 21. Serbia's constitution on the ban on discrimination, which says yes -- before the Constitution and the law, everyone is equal. The government claims that the area regulated by the law is very important, and therefore the law. We agree that this area is very important. However, as certain provisions are defined, we do not think that you have given them enough importance and that they need to be strengthened. We suggest you accept this amendment. The government has otherwise rejected this amendment, explaining that the rules on health skills of employees are regulated by other regulations. This cannot be a valid reason to refuse amendments, since you were not bothered to include these laws and some categories of discrimination regulated by other laws or to declare some of the most serious crimes discrimination.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15828	Thank you, Miss Toman. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Nikola Savic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is from the MP Nikola Savic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15829	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to the proposal for a law on the prohibition of discrimination and on its first member, so that a third position is added in that article after the 2nd position, which is tasked with defining closer the most important obligations of trustees to protect equality. This trustee, which you are predicting by this law here, represents an independent state body, as you have said here. Of course, his role should not be limited to protocol, but should be to protect the greatest and most important values, primarily family, marriage, children, and others. Unfortunately, as you have come to understand this law, it is the impression that everything is happening in a completely reverse order. In fact, this law seems to be made not because of this category that I mentioned, but, above all, because of the gay population. The gay population is just the opposite of all our traditional and family values. If that were the case, it really confirms one example. The other day, you had a chance to hear from everyone, a minor, a offender who sustained a sentence at the Nis Vascular and Correction Institute for raping another minor, when he was released to his parents in Vranje, the same act was repeated. You can imagine his parents hearing from this pay phone those who defend this law or when tomorrow, in the trial, the lawyer representing him says, you know...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15830	Thank you. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Paunović-Milosavljevic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a folk MP, Gordana Paunović-Milosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15831	On behalf of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 1. Proposal for a law prohibiting discrimination relating to the subject matter of the law. The amendment proposes that Article 1 after Article 2 add a new position 3 which reads as follows: 'In the application of this law, the provision of Article 18(2) must be respected. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which guarantees rights and freedoms directly apply in accordance with the Constitution and international standards'. The reasons that I have stated are that this amendment proposes to amend that member of the bill, in order to strengthen the constitutional provision of Article 21 relating to discrimination. So, before the Constitution and the law, they're all equal. The bill not only does it not comply with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, it is anti-Serbian, because it does not respect the traditional moral values and understanding of the citizens of Serbia and the canon of the SPC and all other religious communities in Serbia. This law does not regulate the general prohibition of discrimination against a person, i.e. a group of persons in an unequal position, because, in addition to the Constitution, which prohibits all types of discrimination, there is national legislation, mainly in accordance with international standards, which have been confirmed by international conventions. The law draws attention from the burning problem of the state of Serbia, i.e. it draws attention from the white plague or the fall of birth, and thus the state of Serbia slowly but surely disappears. This law is scandalous... (President: Time.) ) on the one hand, it gives one another rights, and the other rights are denied. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15832	National MP Milovan Radovanovic submitted to the 1st amendment. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The People's Messenger Mirko Munjic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15833	The amendment applies to Article 1 and he says – all provisions of this law must apply within the meaning of Article 21. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The aim of this amendment is to point out in Article 1 of the Law all the strength and strength of Article 21. The Constitution of Serbia. But blind acceptance of certain other people's values will absolutely not bring you anywhere. The question is, what is it that makes you accept something that is absolutely unacceptable in the Serbian people, to accept something that is against the traditional values that have been in force for centuries in the Serbian people, to accept something that is against the moral norms accepted by this people, to accept something that is against nature. Why don't you look up to your German friends, who say in one of their fine proverbs – if nature wants right, don't go left. Looks like nature here wants you not to go left, go right, but I'd say the little red one that's in you or with you or around you is just making you go left. In the end, I'd say that really blind subjection isn't going to take you anywhere, because by feeding a cow with cocoa, you're not going to milk chocolate milk.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15834	National MP Vitomir Plužarevic once proposed amendments to Articles 1 and 32. The government has not accepted, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by MP Vitomir Plužarevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15835	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have submitted an amendment to Article 1, which reads to be the headquarters of the creditors in Kosovo Mitrovica. The SRS suggests that this trustee be placed at the heart of the events and violations of discrimination on all grounds on KIM where Serbs remain exposed to a great discrimination against Albanian separatists and anyone who helps the quasi state take away 15% of the territory from Serbia. The legislator, in his opening statement, attaches to the Constitution and the principles of the Constitution, where all Serbs and Serbian citizens have the same rights. None of us Serbs, nor Serbian citizens, think we want to discriminate. I guess it's a familiar thing in Serbia and beyond. We Serbs and other citizens are forced into strange legal variations that even the world does not accept. For example. Russia, Germany, Austria and other countries don't have the kind of laws you're proposing to us today. One of the ruling coalition's MPs, in principle, listed countries and similar laws in those countries that have resolved or resolved the issue. I will not repeat them because it is not comparable to Serbia. There are countries where, on any basis, this area is being nurtured and that is what we in Serbia know and see, but it is none of our business. We are concerned that our government considers this area normal. That is what the minister pointed out in his address to the MPs on many occasions, and he doesn't think so. We know he has to comment on it that way, but intimately, he's against the law himself. (President: Thank you. There lies the whole problem of this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15836	According to the Rules of Procedure, Ms Natasa Jovanovic, vice president of the Assembly, answered the words. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15837	Mr. Novakovic, I'm advertising Article 104. The Rules of Procedure, because for 25 minutes now, from the moment I started speaking by amendment, there's been no tone in transmission to RTS. I've now received messages from six Serbian cities from different sides, so you don't think the problem is just in some city. This is what the citizens can't hear right now, they assume I'm looking for something, and I'm complaining about something that's such an atmosphere and a situation in the Assembly. But let me tell you, Mr. Novakovic, it's probably because of the fact, and this news went to Serbia and the whole world today, that the queen of the silent film was actually a Serbian, a certain Tamara Stojanovic, who had her own artistic name, so I guess, in solidarity with those who celebrate the age of the silent film, you ruled out the tone in the National Assembly. I really don't know what to say, 'cause we've got to get back these 25 minutes. So, we'll come back if we find that's how it is for most of the Serbian public this afternoon, so from the beginning we're going, from the amendments that I submitted to Article 1, so that all other colleagues come forward, because this really doesn't make sense. I can't even accuse people from RTS now, because I don't know what this is about, but if that's what it is, and yes, be sure, because people from all over Serbia are coming forward, then we need to stop the session and wait for some explanation and see what happens next. This really doesn't make sense. At first, I thought it was only someone's, since I heard from Duke Mirko Blagojevic of Republika Srpska, from Bijeljina, and the first one told me, and you know that the Chetnik dukes are always the first in everything, and then I checked and told a colleague in our office that... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15838	Thank you. Time's up. No breach of the provisions of Article 104. The deputy secretary has just gone to check on what's going on, and whether there's a ton in Bijeljina or not, believe me, that's not our problem. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Srboljub Zivanovic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milan M. Nikolic. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a folk MP Milan M. Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15839	Dear People's MPs, on behalf of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to the law prohibiting discrimination. (President: Allow the People's MP to address. ) Article 1 after Article 2 adds a new position 3 which reads as follows: 'The general prohibition of discrimination shall be interpreted in a manner prescribed by Article 21. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. '"A short explanation. The amendment proposes to amend that member of the draft law in order to strengthen the constitutional provision laid down in Article 21. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia on the prohibition of discrimination, which reads before the Constitution and the law, is all equal, etc. The reasons for the adoption of this law, which greatly offends the dignity, honesty and morals of Serbian citizens, are based on respect for international standards and obligations undertaken by ratifications of international contracts, and above all on human rights and freedoms. Rather, it would be said to be the order of Serbian powerful men who create world politics, and this law seeks to protect their like-minded. The SRS is against any form of discrimination. This law is anti-constitutional, legally pointless and impractical. Against this law are all traditional religious communities, many prominent personalities, as well as NGOs. The questions discussed in this law are possessed by great human minds, so in every new generation of knowledge about them... (President: Thank you, Mr. Nikolic, time has passed. ) expand, but in parallel with them new dilemmas are realized and... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15840	The breach of the Rules of Procedure is advertised by Mr. Momir Markovic. Here you go, Mr. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15841	(The emissary simulates speech, due to tone-off during TV broadcasts.) )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15842	Excuse me, before you go any further, would you be kind enough to appeal to a member of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15843	I've already called a member of the Rules of Procedure. Anyway, there's no tone.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15844	I didn't understand. Will you do it again? Thank you. There's no injury to the member, so please don't abuse the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Markovic, are you satisfied with my explanation? Thank you. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Suleyman Spaho. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Popovic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is Mr. Zoran Popovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15845	In front of the SRS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 1. The proposal for a law on the prohibition of discrimination, by proposing that Article 3 be added after Article 2, which reads: In carrying out operations under its jurisdiction, the trustee shall not violate the prohibition of discrimination laid down in Article 21. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. This amendment is necessary to be adopted for the reason that this draft law in the legal system of the Republic of Serbia establishes another completely new state body that has not existed so far, which will bear the name - trustee for the protection of equality. Whether the regime of Boris Tadic will elect Natasa Kandic, a proven traitor of the Serb people, we Serbian radicals do not know it yet, but if Mrs Kandic asks for the appointment of the trustee, then it is certain that you will have to amend this law, because Mrs Kandic, although defiling as a protector of the parties at war crimes trials in Belgrade's Special Court, is not a graduate lawyer, so she does not meet the conditions for the election. However, regardless of whether you choose Natasha Kandic or another Kandic, what is extremely important to us in the SRS is the fact that whoever interprets the application of the provisions of this law in practice must not be above the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, or above Article 21. The Constitution. Therefore, the purpose of this amendment is that the trustee for the protection of equality in the exercise of his jurisdiction cannot and must not abuse his being an independent state body, that he is independent in the exercise of his jurisdiction entrusted to him by law, and that he is under the protection of immunity. Simply, this law must stipulate that the trustee is not above the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and that he must not take his function as a reward for loyalty to the Boris Tadic regime, because his independence, independence and immunity from prosecution do not mean that he must not endanger the constitutional rights and freedoms of one citizen, in order to ensure the rights and freedoms of other citizens who address him for help.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15846	The MP Gordana Pop-Lazic submitted to the 1st amendment. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is Gordana Pop-Lazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15847	Dear fellow MPs, Mr. Chairman, Serbian radicals insist on these impossible conditions for Serbian citizens to approach their views and speak, ultimately, on behalf of the citizens who chose them, about this law, but as you can see, it is impossible. Even we're being discriminated against, because someone is able to speak faster, someone slower, so in two minutes you can't say anything. But we just want to show how crazy your Rules of Procedure is, unacceptable, nakaradan, anti-democratic, whatever you want him to call it, but it's not what needs to be and allow MPs to make an argument. I'm going to ask just one question, I'm not going to talk at all about what this amendment is about, the Minister here, saying that only a social state can contribute to establishing full equality, I'm not going to talk about discrimination, and I'm going to ask you how you're going to establish the equality of children, disabled children who need to go to primary school, and they can't get in because there's no elevator like we did in the Assembly or there's no elevator at all that they can climb to the first, second, third floor? You said you only needed 40,000 to enforce this law. How are you going to make that happen? How are you going to let them go to high school when you don't have a high school for kids with cerebral palsy, say, and kids are mentally preserved, they can go to school, they can go to all the studies, they can finish high school, they can finish whatever school you want? How are you gonna do that? Who are they gonna complain to? God's father. No one can help them under this law of yours, and thus you have shown that you are free to tear this law apart.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15848	Based on Article 85(1), I'm setting a break of one hour. We'll continue at 3 p.m. Bon appétit.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15849	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the second session of the first regular session with a debate in particular. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Filip Stojanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15850	Dear Members of the People, ladies and gentlemen, I have submitted an amendment to Article 1. The draft law on the prohibition of discrimination, which I proposed to add a new position 3 after Article 2, which should read: 'The Commissioner is obliged to adhere to the work and to protect human and minority rights and freedoms, from Articles 18 to 81. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and in case of doubt that there is contradiction or contradiction, or mutual exclusion, then, for a better understanding and application, the preambles of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia must be adhered to." Ladies and gentlemen, Serbia is a country with a long constitutional tradition. The very word Constitution in our language means the restriction of power and self-will. Far away in 1349, the Law of Stefan Urosh of the Fourth Dushan provided that judges must judge by law, not in fear of the emperor. The Dusan Code therefore first appears in Articles 171 and 172. Because of their importance, human rights are guaranteed by the Constitution, they are dealt with by the Constitutional Court, precisely because of the enormous importance of human rights. I think it is necessary for the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality to pay special attention to the Constitution of Serbia. Human rights cannot be separated from the Constitution, so it is more than obvious that even in this law, calling on the Constitution should not be just pro-forma. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15851	Anyone else want a word? If not, MP Sreto Peric submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a People's MP, Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15852	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have tabled an amendment to Article 1. The draft law prohibiting discrimination and, in addition to the two positions offered in the draft law, I proposed adding the third position of Article 1 of the Law, which would read: "The provisions of this law must be interpreted and applied in favour of improving the value of a democratic society, according to international standards adopted by most UN member states and the practice of international institutions overseeing their implementation." So, the SRS stands at the view that, in addition to preserving the tradition of Serbian society and other citizens living in Serbia, it is necessary to develop and improve the values of democratic society. The government of the Republic of Serbia has not accepted this amendment. I am now interested in the democratic government, what are the attempts to join the EU if such an amendment is not accepted. By the way, I'd like to say that you are this law away from the EU. We don't mind that. We actually want you to go faster than the EU, and because it is a supranational state formation that assumes the interests of 15% of the territory, and certainly also the Government of the Republic of Serbia, our countries with personal interests and those who exercise power, or ministers in the government, and the EU itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15853	Anyone else want a word? If not, MP Ljubisa Petkovic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by MP Ljubisa Petkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15854	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, citizens of Serbia, on behalf of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 1. The draft law on the prohibition of discrimination and proposed to add a new position to Article 1 after Article 2 which reads: "The Republic of Serbia guarantees the inalienability of human and minority rights and through its authorities is a guarantee of the preservation of human dignity and the achievement of the full freedom and equality of each individual in a fair, open and democratic society, based on the principle of rule of law and on the territory of the AP Kosovo and Metohija." The proposed amendment is based on Article 19 and Article 21. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Article 19. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia states: "The guarantees of inalienable human and minority rights in the Constitution serve the preservation of human dignity and the achievement of the full freedom and equality of every individual in a fair, open and democratic society, based on the principle of rule of law." Article 21, I will read just the point one, which reads: ''The Constitution and the law are all equal. Everyone has the right to equal legal protection, without discrimination.' Due to limited time, I am unable to defend the amendment in more detail, but I would like to stress that Article 1 of the proposed law also regulates the right to prohibit discrimination in the province of Kosovo and Metohija. That is why I propose that this amendment be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15855	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dobrislav Prelic. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The People's Messenger Dobrislav Prelic has the word. I'm asking the minister to release the passage of the MP so he can get to the pay phone and explain his amendment. I'm sorry to bother you, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15856	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 1 that a new position of 3 is added after Article 2, which reads: "In carrying out matters of its jurisdiction, the trustee must not abuse the function in order to directly or indirectly affect the political beliefs of the citizens." Before I go on to explain why I think this amendment should be accepted, I must read the explanation I received, which is why the amendment is not accepted: 'The amendment is not accepted for the reason that the bill already contains provisions that provide for the ban on abuse of functions. In fact, affecting the political confidence of citizens is considered unwitting work, which is the reason for the resolution of the trustees." It's simple, amazing, but I'd like to see who's been relieved of his function at all because of various abuses of position? Given the very short time, I will try to explain to the minister why I think this amendment should be accepted. A trustee for the protection of equality, as an independent state body, shall be established in Article 2 of this Article, independent of the conduct of the tasks set out in this law. That is why this amendment is set up and serves to be included in the bill as protection of citizens, who want to free their political beliefs, which gives them the right to Article 21. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Teached by experience from many laws where a trustee or whatever you call it, it is often placed in the role of the ruling party or the majority and abuses the function for the sake of its political parties. This amendment will not prevent abuse, because you do not respect the Constitution and not the laws in accordance with it, but at least it will warn the trustee not to abuse the function. If he has at least a little professionalism and conscience, he'll be braked from not affecting the political beliefs of the citizens. This amendment has been established and there is no time in just two minutes to say all examples of how civil servants and officials are placed in the service of their parties and neglecting the fact that they are where they are to protect the interests of all citizens, not just their political parties. You yourself should have predicted this and incorporated it into the bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15857	Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by National MP Pai Momchilov. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Elena Christmas-Talijan submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) We have been informed that the direct transmission will be delivered by 6:30 today, so we will extend the work until 18:30, then half an hour, while there will be a direct transmission. I would also like to inform you that tomorrow, because it is the 10th anniversary of NATO's bombing, MPs need to be either in their local environments or in party activities, that they plan that day in such a way that they feel they should, so that tomorrow parliament will not be occupied. The People's MP, Aleksandra Jankovic, submitted to the 2nd amendment. Mrs. Jankovic wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15858	In Article 2(1), following the words 'a based on race, skin, ancestors, citizenship, nationality or ethnic origin, language, religious or political beliefs, half', the words 'natural identity, sexual orientation' are deleted. Reason: Since Article 2 under point 1) defines the concepts which should contribute to a comprehensive definition of discrimination, and in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and the documents of the Council of Europe, it is unacceptable to enter the flat-rate categories, such as "natural identity" and "sexual orientation". Namely, 'genuine identity' is extremely arbitraryly defined as 'individual sense of belonging to male, female, something between or not, which may or may not be in accordance with socially accepted norms and roles' (original: Poemnik, published on the official website of Lambda, the center for promotion and promotion of LGBT human rights and queer culture, which is a member of this coalition against discrimination). Similarly, the term sexual orientation is ultimately arbitrary – such as'sustainable, emotional, romantic, sexual or platonic state of attraction towards another person', with the recognition of the following sexual orientation modes: bisexuality, heterosexuality, homosexuality, pansexuality and asexuality (source: Wikipedia, free encyclopedia, you have more details on the Wikipedia website). Serbia's constitution explicitly guarantees the right to freedom of expression of religious beliefs (Article 43(2)), freedom of expression of nationality, a general guarantee of freedom of opinion and expression of ideas and information, which means neither birth identity nor sexual orientation fall within the order of the Constitution of guaranteed rights. In the case of gender identity or sexual orientation, it is about tendencies that in the domain of each person's private life and public expression are opposed to the Constitution, the Law, and international documents guaranteed by citizens' rights to the protection of public morality, private and family life, and the incomparability of human personality dignity, as well as the religious beliefs of 95% of Serbian citizens who have declared themselves believers in traditional religious communities.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15859	Time. Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, Mr. Perry.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15860	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I have submitted an amendment to Article 2 with a proposal to delete the words 'or close faces' in paragraph 1. It means that those faces are deleted, or deleted from the bill. You, Mr. Minister, as well as a number of MPs who were affirmative of this law, said that we owe this law to the citizens of Serbia. Perhaps with certain provisions such a law could also be swallowed by Serbian citizens, they are certainly aimed at the interests of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, but before the law is passed, the government owes much more to the citizens of Serbia. This is primarily – agricultural producers of premiums, subsidies and a number of other obligations; then legalisation of construction facilities; treatment, above all, I mean primary protection, I mean treatment of sterilities, quality judiciary; quality education. These are therefore those obligations of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which it owes to the citizens of Serbia, regardless of national, religious or other belongings. In your comment, which was in favour of accepting this law, you said this was a complement to the protection, or ban on discrimination, which is absolutely unacceptable for us from the SRS, translated into a dictionary that we can all understand is – if one peasant...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15861	You've got half a minute, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15862	Well, if a peasant took his cow to the pasture and brought chocolate along to give it, if there's no good pasture – I don't think anyone's doing it, it's not appropriate. The same additional law that you have said – if we have a Criminal Code and we have a number of other laws that regulate a proper relationship with Serbian citizens, this is certainly not necessary. I don't think it was necessary to spend this much time on this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15863	Thank you, Mr. Perry. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Does Mr. Lightning want a word? Yes, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15864	I have submitted an amendment to Article 2 of point 1), so the word 'unjustified' should be deleted. If you have provided for this member that there is an unwarranted distinction or unjust treatment based on race, skin color, language, nationality etc., then there is a logical conclusion that there is also a legitimate treatment, in terms of making a difference to these properties. That's exactly what's inadmissible, and for that reason, I suggested that this word "unjustified" be deleted. However, I think it is most important for you to truly be at the mercy of those whose orders you receive through this blind acceptance of some European quasi-values. They won't keep you from the promises you made before the election, and I think you're acting on that saying 'as they crossed the water, so the saints forgot'. And you made a lot of promises before the election, remember you promised the state of well-being, 300,000 jobs, 1,000 euros of free shares, a deal with the mafia, with tycoons, etc. But for all this you promised before the election, you got an order from the people, and that's power. Many should know that those who lack the Order of Merit against the People will soon receive bars with golden rays of sunshine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15865	National MP Radica Jocic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government didn't accept the amendment. The legislative committee considers that the amendment does not comply with Article 21(3). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The word is Mrs. Jocic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15866	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in front of the SRS parliamentary group, I have tabled an amendment to the draft law prohibiting discrimination. I have proposed that in Article 2 paragraph 1 point 1), after the word'sindical', the words 'and 'other' should be deleted. In the light of the amendment, it is proposed to amend that member of the draft law in order to strengthen the constitutional provision laid down in Article 21. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia on the ban on discrimination, which reads: Before the Constitution and the law, everyone is equal. Everyone has the right to equal legal protection without discrimination. On this occasion, since we have repeatedly presented various examples of different kinds of discrimination over the course of the day, I would advocate, since last time was a short time, for a profession that I usually belong to until I became a national MP, it's an honorary professor's profession. When we repeatedly pointed out here that children, i.e. students must be protected from any property they possess, that they are in no way discriminated against, to be maximum tolerance, to allow them to have all their rights at school, to do the same to these and other laws regarding teachers and teachers. Because if this continues, all rights do not dispute that parents and students have, but also in the process of gaining knowledge when we make adult people out of little children, teachers must also be protected.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15867	National MP Zoran Popovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Here you go, Mr. Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15868	In front of the SRS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 2. The draft law on the prohibition of discrimination, by proposing that the word 'probation' be deleted in Article 2(1). The legislator in the draft of this law in Article 2(1) shall define the concepts of discrimination and discriminatory treatment, and shall, under this notion and this procedure, be referred to: any unjustified making of differences or unequal treatment, i.e. failure to respect persons or groups, as well as members of their families or close persons, in an open or hidden manner, based on race, colouring of skin, ancestors, citizenship, nationality or ethnic origin, language, religious or political beliefs, gender, gender identity, sexual orientation, property, birth, genetic personality, health, disability, marital and family status, condemnation, age, appearance, membership in political, trade union and other real, or assumed personality. We in the SRS believe that even the authorised legislator of this law does not understand what the authors of the law wanted to say when the ancestors mentioned in the provision of this article and how such a kind of discrimination, if any, will indeed be demonstrated in the procedures that have been initiated to determine the violation of this law. However, it is clear that if only the reasoning of this bill, which states that such a concept of discrimination is reflected in the definition of discrimination in the documents of the Council of Europe and in the EU directives. This means, gentlemen of the ruling majority, that she has re-worked a Resavia-prescription school and that you, as well as most of the other laws, have just copied from a member of the EU and proposed for adoption, although you do not know how to apply its provisions in practice. Therefore, leave our ancestors to rest in peace, accept this amendment, and stop your actions in the face of your descendants.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15869	The People's MP Radisa Ilic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Here you go, Mr. Ilich.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15870	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment that I have submitted to Article 2, which, in Section 1, suggests erasing the word 'everyone unwarranted', shows exactly how dishonest the ruling coalition is in the hearty defense of this, I am free to say, harmful and dangerous to the society of the law. Why am I saying that an dishonesty is a ruling coalition when it comes to supporting this law? An amendment has been rejected which deletes the words 'everyone unwarranted' from the text in Article 2(1). This means, then, that you from the ruling coalition have reason to make a difference or an unequal act. I would ask Mr. Minister to explain to us why an SRS amendment has not been accepted that eliminates any division into unwarranted or justifiable making a difference or an unequal act. Let the minister say that he and those who came up with a law like this imagine there's some kind of justifiable discrimination. They may imagine that discrimination against Serbian citizens is justified on the basis of membership in political, trade union and other organisations, so they need to be shut up by discriminatory business measures, which, by the way, is shown in the media as the success of democracy. To remind you, the success of democracy was also considered by the invention of guillotine in the French bourgeois revolution, so you could also install one by the pay phone here and as soon as you feel bad or you don't like what the MP says, press the key you will easily solve it, because when you cut people's thoughts and say it's easy for them to... [[off microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15871	The People's MP, Gordana Pop-Lazic, submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is Mrs. Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15872	Ladies and gentlemen, I have submitted an amendment to Article 2 of point 1), where I ask that the words 'open or hidden' be said, and now all forms of discrimination are deleted, for the reason that the Constitution does not know those terms, but is talking about direct or indirect discrimination. It was supposed to be something like that in this law. If the greatest value of our society and every civilized society is a man, and it is known that man comes to a man by a heterosexual relationship, if affirmation is unnatural, in my opinion, discrimination is natural, and if we ask the question of what is the cause and purpose, what is the consequence of sexuality, and we give one possible answer, that it is human biological reproduction, that sexuality is a natural drive, and not a choice, then you really put it in an unequal position of those who, I say, are heterosexual and that is, in relation to those you are trying to isolate here as a vulnerable group, so that you would say to your dictionaries, the el cheby of a person, just that accent and that combination. There's a lot of discrimination that this law doesn't mention, and all the time I'm going out for this pay phone, that's exactly what I'm talking about, but here's two minutes, maybe in the next amendment, I can't give that example right now.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15873	The People's MP Dusanka Plecevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is Mrs. Plecevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15874	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to delete the words 'and 'family' in Article 2 paragraph 1). This view discusses a ban on discrimination against persons and groups on a variety of grounds, including marital and family status. I consider the term 'and family' unnecessary, because it's a condition defined by marital status, and the term 'family status' is undefined, so it's too high. I would refer to the part of the article relating to the prohibition of discrimination against nationality and ethnic origin. I come from Bor, a multinational environment, where around 25 members of various nations live next to the majority Serb population. After Serbia, in the second place, the Vlach is a national minority. According to the last census in the Bora municipality, there are 10,064 of them. Most of this indigenous ethnic community wants to preserve its national, cultural and linguistic personality. Therefore, at the end of last year, the initial board of five members, three members of the Vlaško National Council, with 500 signatures, also addressed to your ministry, the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights, then the Ministry of Culture, the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government, the Serbian Academy of Science, the Balkan Science Institute, and, ultimately, the Serbian Government to assist in standardising their language and the adoption of the letter. None of the institutions have responded or given them any assistance in this business, instead some of their lobbying, pro-Romanian-oriented compatriots, together with the DS with whom they are in the coalition, impose a Romanian language with elements of national culture for the students of the Vlach national minority as an electoral teaching subject approved by the Ministry of Education a month ago. Minority authorities will never accept that overnight they become Romanians, but they want to be who they are.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15875	Mrs. Plecevic, time's up. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by Ambassador Nikola Savic. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is Nikola Savic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15876	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 2. A bill on banning discrimination on his first position, where the word 'judgment' should be deleted. For what? If the word 'judgment' remains, then this member of the law is contrary to the Constitution of Serbia, or to its 21st member, where discrimination is clearly stated in which cases. And not only that, if you stayed like this, this would have a completely counterproduct of what the promoter had in mind, because they would literally point at someone, run away from him, you know, he's been convicted. We know that whoever convicted for any reason and endured the punishment, he did his job and that's the end of the story. Especially if we know that a large number of people who have endured the punishment have supported it, say, because of traffic safety violations, from some of the crimes that have been committed in the first place, but you're simply putting this into law again. Of course, we're not talking about political convicts, people who have endured punishment for political reasons. Here comes your ideologist, the ideologist of the DS, and he is one of those who has endured punishment for political reasons and none of the MPs of the SRS or anyone else has even thought to point to that fact – you know, he's convicted or something like that. Of course, some time condemnation for political reasons can also be affirmative, we see that on the case of our president, who in The Hague defends himself against charges that are not...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15877	Will you bring the end? Thank you. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. Does he want a word? He's not here. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Radovanovic. Mr. Radovanovic is not here, so he can't explain. Parliamentarian Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Here you go, Miss Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15878	This is about the concept of discrimination, and I asked to delete the word 'exclusive' in the bracket, and I explained that concept of discrimination and equality when I was talking about the amendment to Article 1. And now I would like to tell you, Mr. Ciplic and Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, that we are discriminated against as MPs and members of the Defence and Security Committee, all related to this member, where it is said that no one can be discriminated against on the basis of political membership. Namely, there are some people in this country who can't be members of any political party, allegedly, so neither does BIA director Sasa Vukadinovic, but he is certainly a member of the DS and you know it very well, so something incredible happened. In the process of your accession and EU bid, for which Angela Merkel told you that Serbia will never enter, you do not allow civilian control of security forces in this country. That's terrible. Today we were supposed to have a committee that Mr. Todorovic scheduled at 12.00 hours, that Sasa Vukadinović appeared here to answer our questions, even at the closed part of the session, but to question him who the faces were, and he said that 56 were tapped, followed and processed during the operation "Mačva", "Shumadija" and "Cactus". Those persons are certainly part of the political, criminal, economic and other miles in the period of Zoran Djindjic's rule, and we have come to know that these individuals who have been followed are closely politically linked to the murder of Zoran Djindjic. It is obvious that DS is not responsible for this debate, and our rights have been suspended, because this is the only parliament in a world where there is no civilian control of security forces. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15879	Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Jadranko Vukovic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Do you, Mr. Vukovic, want to explain the amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15880	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have filed before the SRS an amendment to Article 2(2), where the word "sindical" is deleted. The amendment proposes to amend that member of the draft law in order to strengthen the constitutional provision laid down in Article 21. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia on the ban on discrimination, which reads: 'The Constitution and the law are all equal. Everyone has the right to equal legal protection, without discrimination. Any discrimination, directly or indirectly, is prohibited, on any basis, and particularly based on race, gender, nationality, social origin, birth, religion, political or other belief, property, culture, language, age and physical disability. They are not considered discrimination against specific measures that the Republic of Serbia can introduce in order to achieve full equality between a person or a group of persons who are essentially in an unequal position with other citizens."
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15881	The People's MP Gordana Paunović - Milosavljevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. That you want to explain the amendment? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15882	On behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have tabled an amendment to Article 2. Proposal for a law prohibiting discrimination. Article 2 refers to the concepts used in this bill. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia provides the basis for a comprehensive definition of the concept of discrimination. I have proposed, in Article 2 paragraph 1, that the words 'or groups, as well as members of their families' be deleted. I have proposed this precisely because this amendment shows how incompatible this law is and contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. In my explanation, I have stated that this amendment proposes to amend that member of the bill in order to strengthen the constitutional provision laid down in Article 21. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia on the ban on discrimination, which reads: 'The Constitution and the law are all equal. Everyone has the right to equal legal protection, without discrimination.' I don't want to read the rest. The very dangerous tendencies in this law are obvious, and they are aimed at breaking the family. The survival of our society and our country is possible only if there remains a healthy family that has not been affected by moral erosion. From the human body set, it is obvious that the basic function of the fullness is an extension of the species. All laws must comply with morality and ethics, including this law. It's unacceptable to put transsexualism in the same rank as national and other...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15883	Thank you. Time's up. Lidija Dimitrijevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The Government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with Article 21(3). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The word has the People's MP Lidija Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15884	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, both with the whole bill and with Article 2, the MPs of the SRS paid a lot of attention and submitted a lot of amendments. Article 2(1) of the Law, which I have submitted to the amendment, reads: 'expression' and 'discriminatory treatment', mean any unwarranted or unequal treatment, or failure (exclusion, restriction or giving of the championship) to persons or groups, as well as to members of their families or close persons, in an open or hidden manner, based on race, skin color, ancestors, citizenship, nationality or ethnic background, language, religious or political beliefs, gender, gender, gender identity, sexual orientation, property, birth, genetic personality, health, disability, marital status, marriage and family status, condemnation, age, appearance, membership in political, trade union and other entities'. I have proposed that the words 'immual condition' be deleted. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Article 21, has already clearly defined a ban on discrimination. It is already stated in point 3 that any discrimination, inter alia, is prohibited on the basis of the property situation. The property, as a personal property, must in no way constitute a basis for discrimination against human beings. The persons of poor property must be guaranteed that all their rights will be able to come true under the same conditions as those who are in good material condition. The fact is that poverty is increasingly present and that we have an increasingly pronounced decomposition.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15885	It's been two minutes. Thank you. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Dobrislav Prelic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Mr. Prelic has a word, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15886	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 2, with the words 'discrimination' and 'discrimination' and 'discriminatory action' being used to indicate any unwarranted making of differences or unequal treatment, or failure in relation to the face or groups, as well as members of their families or close persons, in an open or hidden manner, based on race, skin fear, religious and political beliefs, etc., and 'natural identity'. This concept of birth identity is mentioned several times in the debate. It is even asked by Mr. Chiplic to explain what this concept really means and what, in any case, it explains or marks. We didn't get an answer because birth identity as a notion means nothing. Simply, this is what the writer of this bill in his creative enthusiasm put in, not thinking what he wanted to do with this idea to protect against discrimination. I'd like to, if the Minister doesn't accept this amendment of mine, to come out and try to give at least one example where and under what circumstances there might be discrimination based on or for reasons of birth. You should not be vain and reject all amendments to the SRS, but listen to them and consider whether they have a basis or not. No, you all or the vast majority and don't hear, but reject and condemn the amendments of the SRS as obstruction, and each or at least most are founded and meaningful and makes every bill clearer, better quality and, above all, more useful for citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15887	National MP Jovan Damjanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The Government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with Article 21(3). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The word has a folk MP, Mr. Jovan Damjanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15888	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, if we want a good future for our country and our youth, the greatest evil in the world is homosexuality and drug abuse. If we adopt this law on homosexualism, it will certainly come to order and drug abuse. It's the biggest two evils in the world, and I hope it doesn't happen with us. I want to say that in our country we have a constitution, we have a law on human and minority rights, where our law protects us from discrimination, segregation and all that is negative. It happens to us individually, but in our country, in general, we don't have what's going on in Europe and the world, and that's terrible, and that's what's called xenophobia, segregation and racism. We have insufficient concern here, there is no discrimination with us, there is insufficient concern for national minorities, especially my population where I belong. I believe that, in addition to all these constitutions that we have, we don't need to bring in something nakaradic, which doesn't bring us a future, progress, stabilisation, and what's not bad for our country. That's what we need to apply. If it's a good law on one-off relationships, why isn't it in Europe, it's in a couple of states? He's not in Europe, he's not in the world. I said earlier that I've been around and everywhere there's homosexuality, it's freakish, and the citizens are running away from it. That's why our country has to get away from it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15889	It's been two minutes. Thank you. Mrs. Kolundji wants to talk about this amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15890	President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, for us this amendment is totally unacceptable and I think that the applicants of amendments to Article 2 that have a 20-year-old and who each, one by one, are asking to delete a particular category of discrimination, and this amendment requires that nationality and ethical origin be erased from the general concept of discrimination. So the question arises why is someone asking for it? It is clear that these amendments have only been submitted in order to actually speak against the law, not for this law to be improved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15891	I thank you, Mr. Krassic. You had no exposure and there was nothing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15892	Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, you had to warn the previous speaker that he respected the dignity of the National Assembly. The predecessor did not enter into the content of what is proposed by this amendment, and what you might have noticed, my predecessor did not even read the reasons for the amendment applicant, but took advantage of the opportunity to abuse the Rules of Procedure to attack the SRS because there are amendments to the relevant provisions of this proposed law. If the lady in question had read the explanation, she would have seen that all these amendments are in place to strengthen Article 21. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and by being uninformed and wanting to demonstrate discrimination against the SRS, or hatred for the SRS because it must sit here and listen to these amendments, it has turned this thing around. Please multiply her term 21. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and you give Mrs Nadia Kolundji a lesson in mind so she doesn't make mistakes.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15893	There was no breach of the Rules of Procedure. Prime Minister Vlad Milojkovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Mr. Milojkovic isn't here. Member of the 2nd Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Krstin. The Government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with Article 21(3). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The word has been given to the People's Messenger Milorad Krstin.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15894	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, honourable citizens of Serbia, I don't know what I could tell you in these two minutes about this amendment, as well as hundreds of amendments submitted by the SRS. I can quote something to Mrs. Kolundji, who said the other day that this has certainly been one of the most important and qualitative laws that came before this House in the last five years. I understand their concern for this law, because those who made them and created power to rule Serbia, and not by the will of the citizens, dictate them. I have to say another thing. Once the ruling majority realizes that some laws are not more important, when they realize that changes and additions to the Law on the lease of state-owned agricultural land, where unfortunately another mafia, another corruption in Serbia, is created, and that is the agrarian mafia. I repeat, why I'm tying this agrarian mafia to this non-discrimination law. Gentlemen, there are those who have paid the rent of state agricultural land, and these are the poor, those who buy 20-30 ha, and those who buy hundreds and thousands of hectares in 2008 did not give a dinar. It's discrimination against those poor little farmers and peasants who paid the rent of state agricultural land, and those tycoons and those powers that buy thousands of hectares are unable to pay for it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15895	Thank you, Mr. Krstic. Ambassador Milan M. Nikolic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15896	Dear People's MPs, on behalf of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 2 paragraph 1 and the words "marriage and" are deleted. Reason: the amendment proposes to amend that member of the draft law in order to strengthen the constitutional provision of Article 21. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia on the prohibition of discrimination, which reads before the Constitution and the law, is all equal, etc. When it comes to the concepts of discrimination and discriminatory behaviour, a definition is given from which words should be deleted – marriage and sexual orientation, because it is contrary to the provisions of the Family Law of the Republic of Serbia and of Article 3 of that law, where marriage is stated to be a legally regulated community of women and men's lives. This is all in agreement with the Convention on Marriage, on the Minimum Age for Marriage and Registration of Marriage of 26. Ten. In 1973, then the Convention on Marriage and Recognising the Fullness of Marriage of 14. 3. In 1978, then the Convention and Recommendations of the International Labour Organisation, such as the Convention on the Protection of Motherhood from 1952 and 2000. The European Commission's 2008 report says in practice there is still widespread discrimination against national minorities, the Roma population, women, as well as persons with special sexual orientation in Serbia. This has served to pass such a law, which threatens and insults the dignity of the Serbian people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15897	Thank you. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Sladjan Mijaljevic. The Government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with Article 21(3). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Do you want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15898	I have submitted an amendment to Article 2 of Article 1 where the word 'polu' is deleted, but it is more for certain principled reasons, because if the Government could have us this kind of law, which has been prescribed and which has been collected on several sides and proposed that we have been dangling with it for a few weeks, then we too have the right to submit certain amendments to certain members and to give our reasons. This is regulated by the Constitution and Article 21: Before the Constitution and the law are all equal. In addition to the Constitution, there are other laws where certain rights of discrimination are regulated, and we believe that this law is not good, that it is made precisely to bring new jobs to someone and to open up the job of the trustees, on the one hand. On the other hand, to hire a few dozen people from your parties, and yet, on the third hand, there is nothing to do and to regulate that trustee and those members who are being brought in, because it is all a dead letter on paper, since so far you have passed dozens and dozens of laws that certain institutions do not implement. What is in this law is also in other laws and is not being implemented. Certain institutions that need to implement, they don't exactly carry out what it says in those laws, so our laws are mostly a dead letter on paper. And you, with countless of these laws that you've passed according to the list that the EU has prescribed for you, are only working on fulfilling someone else's wishes and fulfilling some of the programs they gave you and what they've prescribed. It happened in one case in Article 18, where you rejected the complete definition of the EU resolution, which I submitted to, say, Article 18, so we're playing here, I don't know what. We're wasting our time, talking to each other. This is more than funny.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15899	On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by National MP Pai Momchilov. Mr. Momchilov, do you want a word? Yeah. ) The Government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with Article 21(3). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15900	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as said here, Mr Krasic explained the essence we want to achieve precisely these amendments to Article 2. We believe that here, in terms of concepts, one should be clearly pointed out, that it is unnecessary. For what? Because we want to affirm Article 21. The Constitution, which is clear to these provisions that it has in its statement, can be quite sufficient and does not even require additional legislation. It can be applied to other legal solutions and it is not disputed. Look what I've been told. I've been told that this is not in line with the 78th member of the Constitution, if one of the terms listed here is cast out. What's Article 78? The Constitution? It is a ban on the violent assimilation of members of national minorities. Where did you find that by affirming Article 21, which we advocate, for the first civil rights package, there could be another, not the third, how do you want to get in here, in violation of Article 78 of our proposal? It's fiction and something illegal. It is even more interesting in article 1, as you do, as you gave the answer when I said that when taking action, in order to ensure equality and equality of all citizens, the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia must be respected as much as possible. You answer me that this proposal does not respect the Serbian Constitution. It's absurd, it's embarrassing what answers you're giving. Did you, Mr. Minister, read this and give this answer to me on the first and second terms? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15901	Thank you. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Mr. Jojic isn't here. Anyone else want a word by amendment? On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Buh. The Government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with Article 21(3). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Mr. Buha, you have your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15902	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when we talk about amendments of the SRS to Article 2, we must say that we have sent quite a number of amendments and that the essence of this article should have been changed. I will continue the story of the refugee population and show the Minister of Human and Minority Rights that human rights are being violated for Serbs in Croatia today, but the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia are also violating human and minority rights. I warn the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights to remove everything that has been done by the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia. The injuries are numerous, they appear both in the area of civil rights and in the area of individual, personal, social, property rights. I'm going to hand over a few of the acts made up of the Krajisnik NGOs that have been formed. I have before me a humanitarian centre for integration and tolerance, which has produced one analysis of the protection of human rights and the rights of national minorities in the Republic of Serbia. In addition, we have one material that formed the Croatian Pensioners' Association, based in Belgrade. Then, several associations of Krajisnik who have processed various materials, of residential rights, property rights, return to the Republic of Croatia, lists of war criminals that are still very current today, etc. The state authorities of the Republic of Serbia do nothing in terms of taking measures to protect Serbs returning to Croatia, to protect their property, to return to the Republic of Croatia normally, in accordance with the provisions of the Agreement on the normalisation of relations between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15903	Time, thank you. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Acimovic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Mr. Acimovicu, please, you have your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15904	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to the Proposal of Discrimination Act, in Article 2(1), point 1) of the word - 'look' - is deleted. I would like to explain: the constitutional provision laid down in Article 21. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia on the prohibition of discrimination reads: "No discrimination, directly or indirectly, is prohibited, on any basis, and especially based on race, gender, nationality, social origin, indigestion, religion, political or other belief, property, culture, language, age, mental or physical disability. "With this law you discriminated against seven traditional religious communities, because by not listening to them you have legalized religious sects and other wicked organizations, so we ask you, gentlemen of the Serbian Government, and those who make up the majority – what future do we expect? How will a normal couple who leads their children by the hands and how they will explain why two women or two men are kissing each other, and whether they can express any kind of revolt if these laws are legalized homosexuals, religious sects, and all other immoral and abnormal behaviors represented by some of your trustees for the protection of equality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15905	Thank you. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Žutic. Mr. Yellow is not here. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic, who is also not there. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Ognjen Mihajlovic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Here you go, Mr. Michaelovich, you have your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15906	The amendment I carefully prepared was disavuished. Why? Because the malpractices of the current regime go beyond even the most insolent imagination. Namely, the Serbian Supreme Court forwarded to the district courts a letter from the economy ministry asking to suspend all trials and freeze enforcement of judicial decisions concerning working relations. When I heard that, I didn't believe my ears. Behind it is a man who is the State Secretary of the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, named Nebojsa Ciric. The man's on TV. I was hoping he'd say it wasn't true. In his shallow mind, however, he found arguments to defend it. He said: We choose less between two evils. Mr. Kiric and, more specifically, Mladjan Dinkic, who you seem to be manipulating, you chose the third evil. You're also destroying this little democracy that's in Serbia. What kind of country is that where laws don't apply, in which the Ministry of Economy rules the judiciary? Does any law that is passed in this congregation make sense? In another happier country, where people are not brought into this state of apathy, there'd be five, ten on the streets, who knows how many millions of citizens. The twilight of democracy. But do you know why you need this? You're firing people everywhere. At this point, you're firing the workers of the Zemun municipality. That's why you need this law, so they can't sue you and go back to the job that was taken from them, because it needs someone with the right party book. You sent an emergency manager to Zemun, a certain butcher from Batajnica, who is now there with the help of a lawyer, a famous drunk of Zemun, nicknamed 'Mimosa', otherwise his last name is Nedeljkovic, if I'm not mistaken, in the name of Alexander Vukic's funeral... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15907	The People's MP, Marina Toman, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Mrs. Toman, you have your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15908	Ladies and gentlemen, the amendment provides for the word "restriction" to be deleted in Article 2 paragraph 1. The amendment proposes to amend that member in order to strengthen the constitutional provisions laid down in Article 21. Serbia's constitution on the ban on discrimination. We have already shown during the discussion that it is not disputed that the SRS is both programming and ideological against any form of discrimination, but this Government's proposal for a law prohibiting discrimination is legally meaningless and impractical, which will prove our lawyers during their presentations. This law, in this form, will not be able to be applied in practice and will confirm the SRS's thesis, as you and your colleagues have also claimed, that it must be adopted for putting Serbia on the white Schengen list. The fact that the law is mostly made up of order is confirmed by the latest initiatives of individual ministers, or members of the government, my colleague Ognjen Mihajlovic spoke about it earlier. Minister, since you are trying to convince us that this law is important because discrimination in Serbia is inadmissible, why you have not stepped up to defend the law on guaranteed workers' rights that will be taken away from them by the scandalous recommendation of the Minister of Economy and Regional Development and the Ministry of Justice to freeze various disputes and their execution for a year. This recommendation not only imposes anti-legal and anti-constitutional pressure on the judiciary, but also imposes discrimination on workers by abolishing their right to seek the protection of their rights guaranteed before the court. Minister Chiplic, this speaker today is an ideal opportunity to address workers and condemn the discriminatory initiatives of your colleagues. You're still the Minister of Protection of Human and Minority Rights... Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. [[Disabled microphone.]] The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Mr. Martinovic, you have your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15909	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here's how pointless this law is and how inadequately adequate legal protection is for victims of discrimination. All the nonsense of this law, or still the bill of law, is contained in Article 40. Here is Article 40, Mrs Kolundzija - if the person to whom the recommendation is not followed by the recommendation, the person who has committed discrimination, or does not remove the violation of the right, the trustee gives him the measure of warning, so the first sanction is the measure of caution, for genocide, for apartheid, for ethnic cleansing, for who knows what kind of experience against people, so the measure of caution. If the person referred to in Article 1 does not remove the infringement of the right within 30 days of the date of notification, the trustee may inform the public thereof. Imagine what a terrible sanction it is for the public to be informed. Then the measure of warning is expressed by a solution against which no special complaint is permitted, a terrible punishment. And then, lastly, the provisions of the law governing the general administrative procedure shall be applied in accordance with the procedure of the trustee. Mr. Ciplic must know that administrative proceedings do not impose any sanctions. In other words, there is no sanction for discrimination under this law. Everything you say, people with disabilities, children, unemployed, older people, women, etc. It's a story for little kids. There's no sanction for violations of someone's rights in this law. Isn't that right, Mr. Chiplet? You know, like me, that administrative proceedings don't impose any sanctions. The administrative procedure shall issue a building permit, a traffic permit, a tax solution, etc. This law absolutely does not provide any valid form of legal protection to victims of discrimination.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15910	National MP Marko Milenkovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Is Mr. Milenkovic here? No, I don't. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The Government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with Article 21(3). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15911	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in Article 2 paragraph 1), I asked that the words "old age" be deleted, because I don't consider age to be discrimination. In the place where I was born, where I was raised and educated, the house was taught from small legs to call older people a good day, whether you know him or not, to kiss the hand. In Serbia where I grew up, older people took off their hats. In Serbia, ladies and gentlemen of the yellow company, which you create, age stands in line a few hours twice a month before the post office, in kilometers of lines standing before the post office to receive that little church you call retirement. Isn't discrimination for the old and weary, for the sick that they can't afford all the more expensive drugs, which are on the negative so-called. The list and their lives depend on it? Let's not talk about a positive list that is also paid, because for a drug that costs up to 100 dinars, 40 dinars are paid, so that's 40% of the price of the drug, and there are no more expensive drugs. How old is it below the existential minimum? Isn't that discrimination? How many old people who have survived the lifetime, Mr. Milivojevic, this isn't funny at all, food in the soup kitchens, and that only meal they get there is for them all day? It's discrimination.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15912	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Branimir Djokic. Mr. Djokic is not here. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Vukicevic, who is also not here. Does anyone else want a word on this amendment? No, I don't. ( ) Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. The Government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with Article 21(2). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The word is made by MP Dragan Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15913	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have also submitted an amendment to Article 2. In the light of the text of this law, the Government said: 'In Article 2 paragraph 1, point 2), (3) and (4) of the bill, the law's proposal explains which law refers to. Since it is a system law, no individual or group in society is exempt, but the bill applies to anyone who acts discriminatoryly. "Further in the reasons for the law being passed, it is said that one of the government's priorities is to strengthen social responsibility towards citizens in order to improve the conditions of life and the work of all Serbian citizens, and especially the most vulnerable categories of the population. Here, perhaps in these three last words of this argument that I have read is the essence and initiation of our dispute and yesterday, and the day before, both today and the future when it comes to the law on the prohibition of discrimination. In a completely different way, the endangered category of population in this country is experienced by us from the SRS and by you who make up the congregation majority today. For you homosexuals, and for us, it's some other people, some other groups of citizens, that we tried to talk about today and point to their problems. Mr. Minister, today I have opened the question of two categories of people who objectively, although they exist through the Constitution resolved through the law, their guaranteed right to work, the right to work cannot be realised. You cannot convince me or anyone in this room that the discrimination they are exposed to could not be absorbed because of the fact that there is no legal regulation, it is exclusively the problem of the political will of the ruling majority today in Serbia. With this law, you're not going to solve anything, just once and for all, who knows which time in one area will open Pandora's box. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15914	National MP Milan Skrbic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Mr. Skribic isn't here. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Maric. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Mrs. Maric, you have your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15915	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have tabled an amendment to the Prohibition of Discrimination Act, which I have proposed to delete in Article 2(1). The rights are fully defined by the Constitution, so it is necessary in law to define the obligations, if necessary. With this bill, you demonstrate modernism, and instead of modern text, you get a vague and unsightly text. I would like to remind you that before this law, you had the opportunity, for example, to protect women from discrimination, or to stand in the protection of women during employment, when they have to sign statements that from the day of entry into the workplace they will not remain in a different state for the next few years or that they get fired when they return from maternity leave. Your protection against discrimination is of no interest to you. You make this law so you can throw dust in the eyes of the citizens, because you don't know how to fix the difficult position of our population. The purpose of this amendment is to deny any possibility for the law to call upon the rights that will be in the function of promoting those categories and models of behaviour that do not comply with the religious and scientific principles governing life. Serbia has all the necessary laws that define rights and freedoms, i.e. The problem is, they don't respect each other. This law seeks to indirectly define the privileged position of a homosexual minority.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15916	Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Do you, Mr. Krassic, want to explain the amendment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15917	I'm completely surprised, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, that they didn't accept this. What's this about? Dear viewers, you must be aware of the fact that this law regulates something best regulated by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia guarantees political equality and the equality of every natural person, every citizen, every citizen, every foreigner in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. And then this small group of people from the government of the Republic of Serbia realized that a special law would solve something that is a general ban on discrimination and they are doing it the way they devalue the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. I would ask you, MPs, to take the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, to take a look at Article 21(3) as a possibility of making a distinction between natural persons appears belonging, origin, belief, condition and ultimately disability. In this article I have submitted this amendment they, as a form of discrimination, possibly hypothetically, also appear sexual orientation. In translation, it means a tendency or an even more precise, perversion. This has no touch points with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and this gentleman would have to know that what is called the Corps of Human Rights, if regulated by a special law, can only be regulated by the way a right is exercised, specifically, in this area it is a way of exercising the right to equality and the right to equality. But they are showered with the idea of a white Schengen visa, just to remind you, there is nothing from a white Schengen visa, they once told us – bring the law on readmission, the second time – sign that agreement, and the third time – bring new passports.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15918	Thank you. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Before that, Mr. Secretary wants a word. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15919	Dear MPs and dear MPs, I would really like, which is impossible, for this debate to be purely legal, but we are still in parliament, but the honourable MP, Col. Krasic, quoted Article 3 as saying. The Constitution, which begins with the words: ''No discrimination is allowed, directly or indirectly, on any basis, and especially... '". So, it's not off, the Constitution just specify certain basics, but it's said before -- on every basis. It's the basis, among other things, of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15920	Thank you. (Zoran Krasic, from the place: Replica. There is no basis for replication. You're not misunderstood, the minister didn't say anything that might have offended you. You think he didn't interpret you correctly? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15921	Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, do you see that I know how to treat and drive a rabbit out of the woods? Please, you saw the government finally spoke. I don't want to explain these things that don't have to be explained. I suggest that the National Assembly make a decision, a conclusion, a resolution, a declaration, and if it is necessary for Mr. Chiplic to propose to be the legal adviser of Barack Obama, Sarkozy, Angela Merkel and these others, and to push them through this bill of law that you are pushing with us. Do you know how you'll go? They'll tell you at the door - don't, please, come in here with such a proposal. Just to remind the public, the state authorities that deserve or have powers, or have rights and obligations and are supplied with attributes of independence and independence, are all prescribed by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The Commissioner for Equality does not exist as a category in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, but something similar should be taken into account about the ban on discrimination in terms of the protection of human rights is the Protector of citizens. They are pulling this out of the Citizens' Protector, defining a special state body only because within a perverse group there are two categories of people: those who believe their rights are not compromised, nor their privacy, and those who want to be publicly proud of it and to boast, and to define their bias as a normal pattern of behaviour in the Republic of Serbia. If you don't believe me, pay attention to the commercials that are broadcast on our TVs.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15922	Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. The Government has not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee does not consider the amendment in accordance with Article 21(3). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Do you, Mr. Maric, want to explain your amendment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15923	Ladies and gentlemen, I have suggested that the words "religious" or, in Article 2(1) be deleted, because I believe that this would strengthen the constitutional provision on the prohibition of discrimination in Article 21(3). The RS constitution, which was just quoted by Mr. Chiplic. I will take this opportunity to draw Mr. Chiplic's attention to another possible case of discrimination against workers, specifically in the Great Plan. I received a letter from Dragoslav Ivanovic, Koporinska 9, Bresje near Velika Plana, in which he says among other things: "Since 1981 I have worked at the cattle food factory "The 10th October", mostly on the business of the main miller. Eight years ago, the factory was privatised and became part of the 100 per cent company in Belgrade. I did my job extremely responsibly, and on December 24, 2008, I was fired as a technological surplus. To write me that I was a technological surplus, I was blackmailed to sign that my company paid off all my debts, including the receipts that followed me in the first six months after I got fired. If I hadn't signed that, if it hadn't been for the solution to say that I was a technological excess, I wouldn't have been able to exercise my rights to the Bureau of Labour. Before the end of 2008, the company fired about 90 workers. In addition to another employee, who, like me, wrote that he was a technological surplus, all other workers were forced to sign – to leave the company willingly. Since the cattle food factory became part of the company "100%", and to pay us less contributions, the account paid minimum earnings and the rest of the salary directly to our hands". In signature – Dragoslav Ivanovic from the Great Plana. I appeal to Mr. Minister that the Government, its Ministry and the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs determine the truthfulness of these allegations and take certain measures to protect workers.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15924	Thank you. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Mr. Alexic isn't here. Does anyone else want a word on the amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljubomir Kragovic, who is also not there. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by Ambassador Dragan Zivkov. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does Mr. Zivkov want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15925	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 2 of Section 1 of this Law, to delete point 2) points 3 and 4 and become points 2) and 3. The amendment is proposed to amend that member of the draft law in order to strengthen the provision laid down in Article 21. The RS Constitution on the ban on discrimination, and this text of reasoning has already been heard by my colleagues who have had similar arguments in the amendments. In point 2), the expressions "faces" and "everyone" signify one who resides in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, so as not to read the complete text, the government has responded to the amendment – not to accept for reasons why the words "face" and "everyone" have explained and better explains what the words "face and everyone" mean. It could also have been accepted this amendment, because it does not change the essence of this law, and many of the provisions you want to push through this law are much more important than this amendment that I have submitted, which, of course, the majority of the vote could accept, given that the government did not accept it. I'd just like to speak to Mr. Secretary. Does he feel responsible for some subsequent events and the destruction of morality in the Republic of Serbia by adopting this law, since now through the Republic of Serbia, cities, etc., many organisations that are named under Article 21 of this law and are simply legally recognised, will they also be held in the streets of such gatherings, such as other sexual orientations, such as what is in the nature of man. Since world and century, such organizations and such supporters have always been discriminated against and condemned. I believe that in this country, given that privatisation is done in the way it is, you have discriminated against the entire people in the Republic of Serbia who created this country in the same way that you want to implement through the law and these definitions that embrace sexual orientation.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15926	Thank you. On Article 2 of the amendment, MP Momcilo Duvnjak submitted. Is Mr. Duvnjak here? It's not. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Ljubisa Petkovic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. He has the word Mr. Petkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15927	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, citizens of Serbia, on behalf of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 2 paragraph 1 of point 2) of the proposed law on the prohibition of discrimination and suggested erasing the words "or is a person without citizenship". For me, the term "no citizenship" in the bill of this law is completely undefined. Foreign citizens certainly cannot be that, because when entering our country they must have a travel document, or passport to prove their identity and the country they come from.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15928	Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Vukovic. The government didn't accept the amendment. Does anyone else want a word by amendment? No, I don't. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Goran Mihajlovic. Mr. Mihajlovic is also not in the O.R. Does anyone else want a word by amendment? No, I don't. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Mladenovic, who is not in the hall. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Srboljub Zivanovic. Mr. Zivanovic is also not in the O.R. Does anyone else want a word by amendment? No, I don't. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Mr. Plužarević has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15929	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have tabled an amendment to Article 2 of item 1 of point "3) the term "citizen" means a person who is a citizen of the Republic of Serbia" - is deleted. We suggest that in this Article point 4) becomes a point 3) and thus this member becomes a quality, so that's how we saw it. With this law, someone wants Serbia to become a Mecca of homosexualism, lesbians and all other perverse groups, so that they can be free in Europe as Far, Sessel, or Marshall Islands. So someone's goal is to create such an area from Serbia, where some of their wishes would be fulfilled. We, as the SRS, have submitted 436 amendments to this law, and thus we inform the public of Serbia – that this law is unconstitutional, that this law is nakarada, that this law makes no sense, that the eternal traditions of our people are destroyed by this law, that marriage as an institution can no longer exist in that sense traditionally, as it has been cherished in us for centuries. I'll just take another moment to comment: when you will stop discrimination in Kosovo and Metohija, when you will provide that people with electricity, water, freedom, perhaps tomorrow and bread. Do you know that these people today... [[off microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15930	National MP Milan Veselinovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Mr. Veselinović has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15931	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in my previous address under Amendment 1. I wanted to support the claims of the SRS and our amendments that this law should not have been found at all in this assembly procedure. Namely, since you're sworn in Europe and some convention of Europeans, and that you've been ordered to, of course, that this law is a condition for a white Schengen visa, I'm just going to quote the decisions of the European Parliament that you didn't allow me to say before, for the reason that there was no time. One of the conclusions of the European Parliament in 1992 was – certain sects that operate as part of an international network in Europe, carry out illegal criminal activities and constantly violate human rights and deal with abuses, sexual abuses, taking away freedom, human trafficking, inciting aggressive behaviour, spreading racist opinion, tax fraud, illegal trafficking of capital, arms trafficking and drugs, labour rights violations and illegal pharmaceutical practices. You see, this is just one of the conclusions of the European Parliament, where you state what sects do and why many countries in Europe don't have such a law as you are proposing to us today. Here's the conclusion of how they fight them. Point 8: I authorise my greater for basic freedoms and internal business to propose to the competent councils of national parliaments that they dedicate their next joint session to the subject of the sect. In this way, information could be exchanged on organisations, working methods and sect behaviour in certain Member States and best methods could be shown to limit and stop unwanted activities of these sects, as well as a strategy to enlighten the population on them. [[off microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15932	Thank you. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is Mr. Filip Stojanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15933	Dear People's MPs, ladies and gentlemen, Your Honor, I have tabled an amendment to Article 2 paragraph 1 point 4 of the Prohibition of Discrimination Act, in which I have suggested that the words "in the predominantly part" be deleted. The term 'public authority' shall be determined in this article. With my amendment, I wanted to symbolically point out to you the fact that this concept has long been defined in our legal practice and many legal acts. Such important concepts are often explained to special members and always separately. You have tried to demonstrate a modernity with this bill, but instead of modern text, you have received a vague and vague text. On this occasion, I would like to remind you that it is not true that before this law you did not have the opportunity to protect, for example. women of discrimination. You could have done that, for example. Under the Labour Act. You had to protect women who were fired because they returned from maternity leave, who blackmailed by signing a statement that three to five years after the day of work they would not remain pregnant. You had to protect those who were working under the labour contract, and according to the Labour Act, they'd have to have a labor contract, but protection from discrimination doesn't interest you. You're passing this law just to get the citizens' eyes dirty and because you don't know what to do to improve our population's terrible economic position. The Maxima of bread and games has received a new version under you that reads – you can handle the bread yourself, and the regime is playing with the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15934	Thank you. An MP named Marina Ragush submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is Mrs. Ragush.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15935	Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Minister, the amendments submitted by the SRS parliamentary group are, in effect, strengthening that famous member 21. The constitution, as the largest legislative act in Serbia, and we, for example, are just trying to paint a society of course that, conditionally speaking, the parties that are gravitating around the former DOS rule. This, ladies and gentlemen, was the project of the former independent electronic network ANEM, created in 93, in 97, actually covered 70% of the area, or the population of Yugoslavia, the number of members was 30. So we're talking about the period most often in certain places when it comes to democracy, the state of human rights called totalitarian periods, in which the Association of Independent Electronic Media worked without any interference in 97. Let's remind ourselves who funded them. In the year 98th, an open society from Budapest, the Open Society Fund, and USAID, the British Foreign Ministry, and the EU AIDS, the Dutch Foreign Ministry. So they had a smooth access to the satellite, to the bibisic network, and of course to the Internet. So we are talking about the possibility of free spread and expression of political convictions. On the other hand, in 2009, we are in 2009, and I suppose, Mr Minister, that you have had the opportunity to see the 2008 Citizens' Protector report, which among other things says – human and minority freedoms and rights in the Republic of Serbia are protected and respected, with the level of freedom and rights guaranteed by regulations higher than the level of their achievement and protection in practice. When it comes to political discrimination or (President: Time). ..... I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15936	Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Sladjan Mijaljevic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Mr. Mijaljević isn't in the O.R. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Mr. Lightning has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15937	The amendment reads: "The right to effective protection against all forms of discrimination in the territory of the Republic of Serbia has legal and physical persons." A report by your friends from the European Commission says that the Framework Law on Prohibition of Discrimination in Serbia has not yet been adopted, and then they say – in practice there is widespread discrimination against national minorities, the Roma population and women, as well as a person with special sexual orientation. Furthermore, they say in the European Partnership document – adopt a comprehensive anti-discrimination law and provide adequate institutional support to victims. Look out, they tell the victims. For them, and for those of you who support them, the victims are not innocent children and civilians who died in Serbia's senseless and savage bombing 10 years ago. For you, as well as for them, it is not those who today after 10 years of severest suffering die of the poored uranium, which your friends have spread over Serbia. For you, as well as for them, the victims are not those who, in addition to dying of poor uranium, also die of many other diseases, and besides that, the bombing has resulted in huge consequences during the destruction of Serbia. For them, and for those of you who support them, the victims are neither unfortunate Serbs from Kosovo nor Metohija, who are in the ranks of extremists and whom Negos said were indeed... [[off microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15938	The word is made by MP Jovan Palalic, after Mr. Munjic's amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15939	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, came forward under this amendment as it was said in Article 3(1) that everyone has the right to protect him effectively from all forms of discrimination by the competent courts and other public authorities of the Republic of Serbia. In view of the fact that there is a point here in point 1 that it is expected that the competent courts in the Republic of Serbia are effectively protecting the rights guaranteed by the Constitution and this law, the question of how does the Government of the Republic of Serbia, in light of these events relating to the mandate of the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, see the judiciary in Serbia in general, how does it see the situation that competent courts are acting in the event of human rights violations? We have an amazing thing that one government ministry orders courts not to act, orders courts that citizens do not have the opportunity in an executive procedure to exercise their rights in a regular court procedure. The question arises whether the employees who have sued and received in court in this case are discriminated against and what are these contradictions, what are they, not to say, the hypocrisies in which this government is located? Courts are expected to work effectively and protect human rights, and on the other hand, courts are ordered not to do anything. I remind you, here we have listened to representatives of the government who pompously announced judicial reform, noting one big reason that the courts are ineffective and now we are going to turn the entire justice system in Serbia because the courts are not working effectively, and then we have a government that tells the courts not to work effectively. This is one contradiction that we are facing and it is really hard to explain to anyone in Serbia, especially thousands of employees who have sued and received convictions, that they are now facing the fact that the government is telling them that these rights and the funds they received in front of the courts are not being realised. This government is a government of upside down priorities, which we talked about at the beginning, when the president exposed his exposés. And instead of today, when we enter a deeper recession, when we enter a deeper economic crisis, when citizens are in fear of whether they will be able to repay their loans, when we are in a situation where many entrepreneurs and natural persons are closing down their entrepreneurial activities, we are discussing a law that has only one goal, that in all possible ways enables the promotion of homosexualism, example, in kindergartens, kindergartens or elementary schools. The question is, has the government given any good thought to the consequences of a law like this and what are the consequences of this happening in such institutions as kindergartens, kindergartens and elementary schools? I want to say one more thing here that just points out that we're discussing something that can't possibly be a priority right now. Well, isn't it a shame for the Serbian Parliament to discuss and bring about a 10-year declaration of Serbia's bombing, that the Serbian Parliament is silent and that our colleagues and brothers in the Russian Parliament are taking views on the crime against Serbia, and we are discussing this issue which, believe me, no one is interested in Serbia. Pressed by the economic crisis, pressured by suspenses, memories of injuries, we are discussing a law that has only one goal, to enable someone and to promote tomorrow something that is not in the spirit of the morals and traditions of the Serbian people but for a millennium. I remind you once again, the Serbian judiciary after such an act of government certainly cannot be a guarantee of the security of citizens, especially cannot be a recipient of the realisation and protection of such rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15940	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Radovanovic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has an amendmentr, Mr. Radisa Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15941	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, by amendment to Article 3(1), is proposed to delete the word 'efficient' in a sentence that speaks of protection against all forms of discrimination through the competent courts and other public authorities of the Republic of Serbia. What would someone in the law stress that in some situations now one needs effective protection of one’s rights? I suppose it is understood that under the law, rights of citizens must be protected. How is it that now someone's rights are protected effectively and inefficiently? We'll explain that on one case. Who is to assess that effective application of this law in terms of protection, for example, homosexual professor, who, because of his mental tendency to abuse, is hard to prove to his student and then the father of that student decides to take his son into protection by simply missing him through his hands, to teach him something about the protection of human rights. According to a parent who allegedly violated Article 21 and compromised the right of the mentalist to freedom of expression of his sexual orientation, measures are being taken effectively under this law that would raise both Sodom and Gomorrah. When someone kills someone, when someone, say, robs a gas station or a state register, when someone spills tons of toxic chemicals, then they should ineffectively protect citizens' rights and... [[off microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15942	Thank you. The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Dušanka Plecevic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is submitted to the amendment, MP Dušanka Plecevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15943	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 3 and I ask that the position of the 1st member "Each has the right to be effectively protected from all forms of discrimination by the competent courts and other authorities of the Republic of Serbia's public authorities" and reads: "Each one has the right to the courts and other public authorities of the Republic of Serbia to effective protection against discrimination". This change puts the accent on effective protection against discrimination, rather than on competent courts, other public authorities of Serbia, as it stands in this article, because otherwise it is their job. The point is, he's right to protect, not to the organs that carry out the protection. Otherwise, these highlight rights and explain concepts in the spirit of Serbian language rather than undefined general phrases and language concerns, which there are many in various members of the bill's proposal, such as hate speech, a flossula designed in who knows whose fantasy, then actions that do not specify the incriminating action at all, and therefore will be the subject of frequent abuse. Then, the notion of an unwarranted distinction, where there is no real reason to make a difference, or whether each making a difference is discrimination, given that the Constitution is prohibited on any basis. Then, the concept of sexual orientation, which I suppose is also the existence of sexual disorientation. I call on the legislator to adopt, in addition to the essentials, all language corrections, because the Serbian language is clear, direct and precise, so there is no need for any language doubts, silvery inoculations and other language exhibitions.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15944	Anyone else want a word? Mr. Srdjan Spasojevic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15945	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Minister, Mr. Chairman, you have violated Article 27. The Rules of Procedure, because after the presentation of Parliamentarian Radisa Ilic, you did not give me the opportunity to report on this amendment, within the time of the parliamentary groups, and I raised my hand, you did not allow me to report for this amendment. I don't think that's correct. I understand the need for you to run when it comes to these amendments. Em, what the people would say, is that these Rules of Procedure have been denied the right to discuss amendments and it is entirely incorrect that, if someone reports by amendment, and the fact is that some parliamentary groups will not be able to comment and discuss these amendments because of the abundance of amendments and the short period of time. So, I really ask you to pay attention to the O.R. in the future, that the hand was raised, because on account of the amendment to Radisa Ilic, I wanted to take a call. This is really precedent. It's totally unacceptable this behavior. Strange things happen in Serbia. It's a miracle that everything that happens with appeals to courts that work disputes, Mr. Chairman, are simply put aside. What about judicial protection? What about labour law? What are we gonna do with people who are gonna lose their jobs anyway? This is a message for people who have exercised their right by means of judicial judgments, as well as a big message to all future workers, who will surely lose their jobs in this crisis, that they have nothing to seek in judicial protection. Therefore, please, if workers' rights are not respected, if citizens' rights are not respected, if the rights of MPs are not respected, what are we talking about here, Mr. Minister, about discrimination? All people in Serbia who will not have the right to judicial protection and MPs who can't get the word have been discriminated against.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15946	Do you want to talk about the amendment? It's possible I didn't notice, there's no intention. I apologize if you're right. If I've succeeded and noticed you now that you've advertised the Rules of Procedure, why not, I apologize if I haven't seen you. Would you like to talk about the amendment to Radisa Ilic, Mr. Spasojevic? No, I don't. ) Does anyone else want to talk about Mrs Dušanka Plecevic's amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 3rd amendment was submitted by Ambassador Vladan Jeremic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. That the line wants a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Momcilo Duvnjak. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. That the line wants a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Jadranko Vuković. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is Mr. Jadranko Vukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15947	Dear Mr. Novakovic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 3(1). The draft law in Article 3(1) states that everyone has the right to protect him effectively from all forms of discrimination by the competent courts and other public authorities of the Republic of Serbia. We propose that Article 3 paragraph 1 be amended and read as follows: "Effective protection against all types of discrimination" is given. The amendment proposes to amend that member of the draft law in order to strengthen the constitutional provision laid down in Article 21. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia on the ban on discrimination, which reads: 'The Constitution and the law are all equal. Everyone has the right to equal legal protection, without discrimination. Any discrimination, directly or indirectly, is prohibited, on any basis, and particularly based on race, gender, nationality, social origin, birth, religion, political or other belief, property, culture, language, age and physical disability. They are not considered discrimination against specific measures that the Republic of Serbia can introduce in order to achieve full equality between a person or a group of persons who are essentially in an unequal position with other citizens." Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15948	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Gordana Paunović-Milosavljevic submitted to the 3rd amendment. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is Mrs Gordana Paunović-Milosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15949	On behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 3. The draft law prohibiting discrimination, so that attitude 1 changes and reads, "The public authorities of the Republic of Serbia are obliged to protect citizens and legal persons from any kind of discrimination." The SRS always advocates the equality of all sexes, men, women and children. What happened in the King these days, at a time when this assembly is being proposed a bill against discrimination, I would like to announce through this pay phone. So, there's been an incident in the King's Town Hall building. Then, on 20 March 2009, at seven hours and 45 minutes, our colleague Vesna Vukajlović-Nikolic was attacked by Dr Ljubisa Jovasevic, who is the deputy mayor of the Kingdom and who suffered serious physical injuries. We've got a statement here from Studnica Health Center, King, where she immediately reported to the surgical ward after those injuries. She was injured, said, in a fight, by another person, she suffered a right forearm and fist injury, and an objective examination found that there was an extremely severe painful sensitivity and also a physical and mental... (President: Thank you. ). What are you going to do as a minister...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15950	Your time is up. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is Mr. Filip Stojanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15951	Dear People's MPs, Your Honor, I have tabled an amendment to Article 3(1). The draft law on discrimination, and I suggested that it be changed by saying: "Citizens and legal persons have the right to the competent authorities of the Republic of Serbia to effective protection of discrimination". Ladies and gentlemen, protecting against discrimination isn't a joke, it's not a child's game. Human rights are a constitutional category, no more category than that. We have an obligation to clearly and precisely determine who is responsible for protecting the natural and legal persons of Serbian citizens in an effective way against discrimination. Not everyone can do that, they have to do that to those who are qualified to do something like that. Do you have procedures in public authorities to protect citizens from discrimination? Or they'll be doing it in freestyle. Ladies and gentlemen, arbitrary cannot exist for such an important category. That's why I invite you to accept my amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15952	Thank you, too. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Buh. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. The word is Mr. Milorad Buh.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15953	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable citizens of Serbia, I will read the provision of Article 3. The draft law prohibiting discrimination, because it is the essence of this law, and concerns the obligation of the state authorities, the judicial authorities, to protect anyone who has the right to protect against all forms of discrimination. On several occasions, I addressed a number of state bodies, notably the ministries, which have legal powers in terms of protection against discrimination, so I addressed several parliamentary issues to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Diaspora, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, the Commissioner for Refugees and other state bodies, and asked for intervention against the Serbs from Republika Srpska, the Republic of Croatia, in terms of the rehabilitation of the rights that the Croatian authorities had seized, in the period from 1991 to 1995, and especially since 1995, following the genocide policy of the Croatian authorities and ethnic cleansing of the area where Serbs lived from the memory. In all answers to parliamentary questions, one conclusion can be made that the Croatian authorities, at least in response, Croatian authorities do not want to enforce the provisions of international law, their internal rights and signed multilateral and bilateral agreements between Croatia and Serbia. What do the state authorities do to prevent this passiveity of Croatian organs? What do the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia do to prevent open discrimination against Serbs who are citizens of the Republic of Serbia today and who, according to the provisions of Article 3 of this proposal, are under Article 13. The Constitution must protect citizens in terms of the life of their rights and the rights of their interests. (President: Thank you. Don't do anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15954	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Pai Momchilov. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is Mr. Pai Boys.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15955	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm really amazed at the answers I get from the government. What is in Article 3 in the first position? "Everyone has the right to be effectively protected from all forms of discrimination by the competent courts and other public authorities of the Republic of Serbia." What did we suggest in front of the SRS? We say -- public authorities of the Republic of Serbia are obliged to protect citizens from any kind of discrimination. So, the government says, citizens are right, and we say no, the state has a duty to provide protection. What's up with me? It suits me like this, he says – the amendment is not accepted for the reasons set out in the reasons for not accepting the amendments under regular number 119. The amendment under 119 was given this reason – the amendment is not accepted, judicial protection is a form of protection against discrimination, and the right to access the court is one of the fundamental human rights. God, what illiteracy. I'm not a lawyer, I asked the lawyers if when we say that public authorities, that means courts, and I'm told by lawyers that. Well, then, why are you answering me like this? What's wrong with you? This insults the intelligence of the average man. Don't say that. Come out and give me an explanation here. Of course, we believe that there is room beside the courts for protection of the rights of citizens. You don't think so, you gave your explanation, so nothing to anyone. This is the ridiculous explanation you give me, and I'm going back to the first member I've ever sent, where I ask you to respect the Constitution, and you say you refuse me because I didn't respect the Constitution. Don't do that.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15956	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Žutić. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milan Avramovic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marina Toman. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been given by the People's Messenger Marina Toman.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15957	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we propose this amendment to amend Article 3 of Section 1 and to say, "Every one in the Republic of Serbia has the right to adequate protection from all forms of discrimination." Of course, this proposed solution does not preclude anyone from seeking that protection with competent courts, public authorities, calling for a violation, primarily the Constitution, or the law. We're facing one absurd today. We have before us a bill against discrimination, and we are facing the fact that discrimination is being conducted precisely with those who propose this law. I don't know how else we could characterize the government's proposal to tax all net incomes of more than 20,000 dinars with an additional 5%. Isn't that discrimination against a large number of workers and pensioners, isn't that a blow to their standard? Ask those who receive 20,000 dinars per month whether a solidarity tax of an additional 5% is considered discrimination. For the absurd to be larger, this discriminatory measure will raise about 1.8m euros a month, representing about 10% of the revenues our country has given up by simple application of the Transition Trade Agreement, a decision that has put individual areas of our economy in a discriminatory position in relation to the economy of individual EU countries. So, before this law appeared before the Assembly, his proposings had to reconsider some of their discriminatory actions, because then your claim, Minister, that the government had to do with the citizens of Serbia, would certainly not be pointless.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15958	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is Mr. Alexander Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15959	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I must point out that what Mr. Chiplic said in the discussion with Mr. Krasic is really not true. Mr Krasic correctly noted that laws can only provide for ways of exercising the rights already provided for in the Constitution. I guess we don't understand each other here, Mr. Secretary. One is a ban on discrimination and absolutely no one in the SRS, I don't think there is any reasonable man who would be against a ban on discrimination, but one is a ban on discrimination, and the other is to allow someone, or certain social groups, to publicly express their sexual beliefs, or their sexual orientation. It has nothing to do with each other. There is no provision in the Constitution that would provide for the right of someone to publicly express their sexual orientation. Why would decent people even care what other people's sexual orientation is? Leave it in the privacy area. Why are you putting it up to the rank of some socially acceptable norms? Why should this be a model for all citizens in the Republic of Serbia to act on? A way of exercising rights can be defined by law, not by introducing some new rights that are not in the Constitution. That's what this is about. I have no idea how the law banning discrimination suddenly became the most important thing in Serbia overnight. As far as I know, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia did not discuss the so-called The government's package of measures to combat the consequences of the economic crisis. They only orally referred to the president of the state, but no debate was conducted in parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15960	Thank you. Anyone else want a word on this amendment? (No) Ambassador Marko Milenkovic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Mr. Momir Markovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15961	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since Europe cannot wait, we do not have time to correct the laws that we are going to make, and in order to help, not to get in the way of this Europe, I have tried to make an amendment in Article 3 and I have calculated that the competent minister will accept this amendment. What's this about? It is the obligation of legislators to write short, clear, concise and application-binding norms, referring to every law, not just this one. Listen, ladies and gentlemen, what they say in Article 3 – everyone has the right to protect against all forms of discrimination effectively from the competent courts and other public authorities of the Republic of Serbia. In a desire not to blush when we arrive in Europe, I suggested that attitude 1 be changed, so to say – the citizen is entitled to public authorities – because courts are also bodies of public authority, so there is no need – courts, then creditors, then judges for violations, so the parents, etc., but when it is said – public authorities, it is known to refer to all the authorities – to effective protection against discrimination. The amendment has been rejected and said this way - the amendment is not accepted for the reasons set out in the reasons for not accepting the amendments under regular number 116. In an explanation for 116 he says – the amendment does not comply with the purpose of the law. The meaning of the term – citizen – is defined in Article 2 paragraph 1. The bill includes only citizens of the Republic of Serbia, while – everyone – includes others who are staying in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. (President: Thank you. Just two more seconds, Mr. Chairman. Those who are not citizens of Serbia, who are staying in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, are either refugees who will receive citizenship or foreigners... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15962	Thank you. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? (No) Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has an amendment bearer, Mr. Stevanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15963	Mr. Minister, I submitted an amendment to Article 3(1) and the intention of my amendment was to change it. I assumed that Article 3 looked like this: "The Republic of Serbia and its authorities are obliged to protect human and minority rights and freedoms and give everyone the right to protection from all forms of discrimination. 'Cause the amendment wasn't accepted, you know what it says? Judicial protection is a form of protection against discrimination, and the right to access the court is one of the fundamental human rights. What's pointless, is an amendment or an explanation? Mr. Minister, you have called this law binding tissue, I assume all the laws that are in this sphere, or that regulates this matter. In our opinion, it certainly is that through all the members of this law, there is dissonance, or senselessness. You said here that this is a law that needs to build instruments that will ensure the successful application of constitutional provisions relating to the prohibition of discrimination. You want to ensure the successful application of constitutional provisions to non-constitutional categories, what is the trustee you have provided for in this law? What was also untasteful, just before you said you weren't expecting a political, but legal debate. Mr. Minister, since the debate on this law was opened, in recent days and weeks, I have not heard that in a word or sentence you have denied what is said in public, that this is exclusively political law. If the law is political, if it represents an expression of your political concept, you couldn't expect us to have a different discussion. I think our debate was the answer to what this law represents.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15964	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) Ambassador Milan Skrbic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) Ambassador Marina Ragush submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the People's Parliament, Miss Marina Ragush, want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15965	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister, as you can see, according to the provisions of the new Rules of Procedure, it is very difficult in two minutes to explain the amendments. We are really trying, with more or less success, to fix certain legal proposals, actually to fight for only one basic thing, which is the life of a decent man in the state of Serbia. Where I stopped a while ago, I would really like to continue, given that this is the latest report by the Citizens' Protectors, which concerns the state of human and minority rights and the state of Serbia so far at a very low level. As the Citizens' Protector says, what is guaranteed by the regulations is absolutely respected at a very low level. Among other things, the Citizens' Protector says in his report – a large number of disappointed citizens, especially the poor population and members of marginalised groups, see human rights as abstract, sometimes elitist concepts, far from their everyday life. I suppose you'll agree, at least not loudly, that this is a sufficient picture of the state of Serbia in 2009, when it comes to human and minority rights. What we would really like, as a parliamentary group, to add to the argument that we do not know in what way the law you have proposed and explained here will defend, to be implemented in practice, when by 2009 human and minority rights in Serbia are not adequately respected. That's not what the SRS says. That's what the Citizens' Protector says, which, of course, is...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15966	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Elena Christmas-Talian. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment, MP Dusan Maric, the Government did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with Articles 32 and 36. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The word is Mr. Dusan Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15967	Ladies and gentlemen, as tomorrow ends ten years after NATO's aggression against the SRJ, I am taking the opportunity to remind that the Serbian people and the Republic of Serbia have been exposed to aggression by the United States and the EU for 20 years. I am taking the opportunity to remind myself of some of the results of this discrimination – the violent breaking of the SFRY, the common state of the Serb people in seven separate states, the causing of wars in which more than 40,000 and more than 95,000 Serb people were killed, the persecution of more than half a million Serbs from Croatia and Republika Srpska, the occupation of the Republika Srpska Krajina, the persecution of more than 160,000 Serbs from Sarajevo and more than 400,000 Serbs from other parts of BiH, the cause of the war on KIM and the bombing of the SRS, in which nearly 10,000 people were killed, the occupation of KIM and the persecution of 250,000 Serbs from the southern province. The creation of another Cypriot state on Serbia's territory, the destruction of more than 400 Orthodox monasteries and churches in Croatia, BiH and KIM, the destruction of more than 1,850 Orthodox cemeterys; ethnic cleansing of more than 1,500 Serbian villages and villages. There are no more 427 Serb villages in BiH alone, which were the Serb majority settlements before the war. And finally, after I am out of time, the establishment of a criminal formation of the UN tribunal, which seeks to blame and responsibility for all these listed and unlisted crimes is attributed to Serbia and the Serb people.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15968	Thank you. I ask all MPs to concentrate on the amendments they have submitted themselves, because the exposition of the predecessors was not in line with the agenda. Miss Ragush's advertising injury to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15969	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm reporting under Articles 27, 100 and 104. In Article 27, as regards the running of the Assembly, of course, where you are expected to take care of the application of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Today we have proved actually total discrimination based on a completely restrictive Rules of Procedure. I would like you, Mr. Novakovic, to answer me which member of this Rules of Procedure predicts that you speakers in the middle of a sentence, before the thought ends, are interrupting. That's the first thing. Secondly, what the public in Serbia really should know and be absolutely clear is that this is about discrimination against the rights of opposition MPs to freely express their political beliefs and nothing more. So, Mr. Minister, every story, every debate on the issue of the anti-discrimination law falls right here today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15970	Therefore, I am giving an explanation within the meaning of Article 100(4), where it is beautifully stated that the MP in time to two minutes is the one who has the power to explain also the violation of the Rules of Procedure and the amendments under Article 143(4). Mr. Aleksandar Martinovic also advertises a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15971	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Novakovic, you have violated the provision of Article 104 which speaks of dignity, but also the provision of Article 31, which says that vice presidents, and you are vice president, are helping the president of the National Assembly. It is not yours to comment on the presentation of individual MPs. You are one, however, respected lawyer, you are a lawyer and allow me, as a young colleague, to give you a well-intentioned advice – when you read this bill, then you must read its lines, but also between the lines. Mr. Dusan Maric tried to explain to you that there is a NATO pact between the ranks of this law, both the US and the EU, and all those who started an aggression against the Serb people in 1999 and are now continuing it with this law. You know, Mr. Novakovic, if you just took a little bit of the text of the law and looked between the lines, you'd find here and Javier Solana, who ordered the bombing, and Cameron Manter and various other villains, who continued their work that didn't end in 1999. You know what they want? In 99, they killed little Milica Rakic and now with this law they want to kill thousands of small Milica Rakic in Serbia, so that there will be no more Serbs. They want to promote here in Serbia as a social value something that is... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15972	There's no violation of the Rules of Procedure you called upon. I can't read between the lines, I can't read, I can't read, I can't read as it's written, and here, as I've explained to Miss Ragush, there's two places with time to two minutes. Thank you. I apologize, Miss Ragush, according to the Rules of Procedure again. If you're not satisfied with my explanation, then we'll make a statement in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15973	Mr. Novakovic, I've been running for three seconds that I haven't even started talking. I really appreciate your way of holding a session of the National Assembly. In fact, I really don't have much of a grudge, because you really allow everyone to get out in the limits of normal and say what they mean, or express political conviction on a particular issue. This is about, and I call on Article 104 to violate the dignity of the speaker, who should finish his thought, and the silent agreement was always to wait for the speaker to finish his thought, no matter what he's going to exceed, maybe 10 or 15 seconds. I guess the point is that we have the opportunity to explain the amendment as best we can in order to help a gentleman, a respected minister, that this law looks much better and more functional. The second thing, you can, if you really want dialogue and democratic principles, the speaker to warn you that the end of those two minutes is coming, because it's hard to expose and track the time, and then really all of us behind this speaker, Mr. Novakovic, you'll admit, you'll look much more dignity than interrupting us in the middle of our minds. That's the point of my report. I would really ask colleagues from the ruling majority to reconsider that it is two minutes and too short to explain the amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15974	Excuse me, does this mean that you are not satisfied with my explanation and insist that the Assembly in the voting day declare whether the Rules of Procedure has been injured?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15975	Exactly.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15976	In the voting day, the assembly will declare its request and remarks to Ms. Marine Ragush whether or not I have hurt the Rules of Procedure. My colleague, Verica Radeta, first reported, advertising the violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15977	Mr. Novakovic, I must tell you that you are getting better at replacing Ms. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic. Today you have shown, here just before, and not just a moment ago, that you have a different attitude towards MPs of different parliamentary groups. Just like Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic, same as Gordana Komic, I must admit that I did not notice this in you today, you are making obvious discrimination against the MPs of the SRS. You have injured Article 100, which gives the MP the right to speak after the injury of the Rules of Procedure. This was just done by Master Alexander Martinovic and you interrupted him to explain some of your knowledge, whether you know how to read between rows or only lines or titles, I didn't quite understand. You took Mr. Martinovic 30 seconds from the time, from the entire two minutes that this Rules of Procedure allowed him. Please, Mr. Novakovic, that at least the way the Rules of Procedure is, at least let us use the time provided for in this Rules of Procedure. Whatever your explanation is after this intervention of mine, I insist that the Parliament in the voting day declares the breach of the Rules of Procedure and I really look forward to seeing the MPs of the assembly vote that there was no injury, and I know that it will, when, apparently, all of you after a minute and 30 of your fellow Members of Martinovic broke up and did not allow him to use his time in the way that he thinks is best.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15978	The 100th has ten positions. I've read very carefully the lines of all attitudes, and I don't think I've broken the Rules of Procedure. In the voting day, the Assembly will certainly declare your request. Thank you. That's it. The word is Miss Natasa Jovanovic. Mrs. Radeta has already said in advance that she will not be satisfied with whatever she may be, since that's the end of the story. You have the word, be very careful because twice you can't do the same injury, just so you know.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15979	I'm asking you best not to scare me or warn me what I'm going to take care of here, which I won't take care of. Unfortunately, I'm now intervened to help you. You said the 100th member had more attitudes. You have injured four, I will now read them to make it clear to the citizens of Serbia what four attitudes you hurt when you took Mr Martinovic's word away, or when you kept him from talking for two minutes. Article 100(1): The MP shall have the right to orally indicate an infringement in the conduct of the President of the National Assembly, that is, the chairperson (that is, you) if he considers that he does not comply with the provisions of this Rules of Procedure, and it shall be done at the session of the National Assembly which is under way and immediately after the infringement has been done. That's what Mr. Martinovic did. Item 2: The National MP cannot point to an injury in the actions of the president of the National Assembly, or the chairman of which he has already been pointed out. That wasn't the case. Item 3: The President of the National Assembly, or the Chairman, gives a word to the MP who points to a violation of the position of the 1st member, immediately following the completion of the presentation of the previous speaker, by the fact that the presidents of the parliamentary groups have the advantage. This is what you respected. Item 4: The National MP shall indicate which member of this Rules of Procedure is injured by the actions of the President of the National Assembly (that is, Mr Martinovic did) or the Chairman (i.e. you) and shall explain what the injury is, by being able to speak for up to two minutes. (President: that time has just expired. Thank you. No, I was quoting four attitudes.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15980	I will read to you item 7, which states that the chairman is obliged to impose on a national MP who does not adhere to the provisions of Articles 1, 2, 4 and 6 of this Article, or in another obvious way abuses the rights provided for in this Article, one of the measures provided for in Articles 105, 106, 107 and 108 of this Rules of Procedure. Therefore, although I warned you that you could not advertise twice the injury of the same member, you forced me to give you a warning, which I am doing this time. Thank you very much. The word is Natasa Jovanovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15981	Mr. Chairman, you've hurt your ankle. 96 and 103. Namely, you, acting on the presentation of counterpart Dusan Maric, who spoke about his amendment, commented after his presentation, which was not allowed from the post of vice president, that his exposure was not in line with the topic. You could have, in the course of the presidency, on the basis of Article 103, warned the speaker, which you didn't do, that he wasn't talking about the issue that's on the agenda, and that the citizens of Serbia wouldn't think, and of course they wouldn't, because they already know Dusan Maric, and they know how much he's responsible MP, and it's always been argued that he's always coming under any law, I have to warn you that you were obliged to listen to him, so if you wanted, as Gordana Komic said this morning, to give counter-arguments to his amendment, to give you a place, I don't know who you really would, because you don't have anyone else at that point, because I wouldn't accept these roles, to go out as a pay phone and to say what doesn't suit you in his amendment. That he was right and that he made the argument that was confirmed by the judicial verdicts of the competent courts in our country after a senseless aggression, he was just saying the way the Serbian citizens understand him, because Serbia has issued the judicial verdicts to the criminals: Javier Solana, Wesley Clark, Madeline Albright, Bill Clinton, Jamie Shay, I cannot even remember the names of all these villains and count the names of tomorrow's ten-year-old. counterpart Maric, by deleting Article 1(3)'s position, wanted to tell us that no court in Serbia, unfortunately, has protected any citizen of Serbia for ten years after this unprecedented aggression against a country and a nation. (President: Time's up. Thank you. ) Therefore, next time, if you want to talk about such serious things that the amendment says you are talking about, go for a pay phone and go out with counterarguments. The Marics are insurmountable.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15982	I have just, not Mr. Maric directly and personally, but generally asked MPs to pay particular attention to the provision of Article 103, which in paragraph 1, says that the speaker can only talk about the issue on the agenda. Are you satisfied with my explanation? No, I don't. ) Therefore, in the voting day, the Assembly will declare the alleged violation of the Rules of Procedure brought by Ms Natasa Jovanovic. Now let's go back to the amendment debate. Mrs. Pop-Lazic is advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15983	To use only my right to remind one member of the Rules of Procedure and to address first and foremost the proposing representative, Mr Chiplic. Article 145 – that the legislator has the right to withdraw the draft law from the procedure until the finalisation of the draft law at the meeting of the National Assembly. Here, once again, let me draw your attention to you, that I think you've gained an impression of the atmosphere in parliament. You have seen how much energy we have entered this debate, trying to convince you that this law is unnecessary and that, in fact, only because of two members of the law, you are offering us a law against discrimination.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15984	I have to stop you. You point to a breach of the Rules of Procedure in the conduct of the President or of the Chairman of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, if you consider that it does not comply with the provisions, immediately after the injury has been committed, which is Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15985	There's only one member talking about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15986	I'm afraid the minister who attends here is not even the chairman.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15987	He is not obliged to know our Rules of Procedure, and here I am using the opportunity, if you allow me, only in two sentences to introduce him to that possibility, because he might, perhaps, take advantage of it, and he doesn't know he can take advantage of it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15988	I'm absolutely sure the minister knows that.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15989	Then let him tell us, please, don't be a government spokesman.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15990	It's over, thank you, and please don't do it in the future. Please, you have the right as an authorised representative. He's got Mrs. Alexandra Jankovic's word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15991	I am using my right to, as an authorised representative of the New Serbia parliamentary group, discuss something about the planned time with member 143. Rules of Procedure. I have already held in the principle debate that New Serbia believes that the law on discrimination is necessary, which also stems from the Constitution, adopted by the citizens of Serbia at the time that New Serbia and the DSS exercised power in the country. It is precisely because of our clear determination against any discrimination, for us from New Serbia, as well as for the majority of citizens who have given us support for our position, that it remains unacceptable to pass such an important law without a real public debate, a public debate that would cover both critical tones and speed, almost with some kind of coercion and discriminatory attitude of the promoter towards all who have raised critical tones. We have already indicated once that it is totally unacceptable to impose a law on the prohibition of discrimination only on the issue of discrimination, so-called discrimination. The LGBT population, which unfortunately does not even express individual views of gay people, but of the financial and political lobby, successfully hidden behind paid exhibits. That lobby actually runs double accounting, so it's straight for the public and in private life gay. If it's a normal sexual orientation, then why are those who are gay, and there are both in the government and here in the Assembly, not going public and testifying to the normality of this sexual orientation by their own personal example? But as there has been enough talk of sexual minorities these days, we leave to the Secretary of State of the Ministry of Minority, a person with such a pleasant last name, Karadzic, and so different from the one who celebrated that name in the Serbian people, I think of Radovan Karadzic, as he deals with supporting gay parades, which can be in his private name and his private right and interest, as long as he remembers that the rights of the majority are at stake in Serbia. Just as Mr. Culture Minister, Mr. Bradic, we leave him free to do what he personally cares about, but only until it endangers the function that is entrusted to him. If it allows the National Museum to fail, if it is very annoying by the person who celebrated the Belgrade Philharmonic, if the national pensions are given to the credited creators on the key, but not one Milutin Popović Zahar, who only wrote "Vidovdan", would have to be a legend, while giving money to a raised four for a site that is insulted by the Church, the human rights of the prisoner Uros Misic, which is recognised by independent Kosovo – then it is no longer a private matter of the minister and for this must be held accountable. The right of minorities, especially those around which there is no general agreement, must not turn into a minority dictatorship over most Serbian citizens. If, in Article 2 of this Act, the terms "discrimination" and "discriminatory treatment" mean any unwarranted distinction or unequal treatment on the basis of assumed personal properties, can a severe form of discrimination, with a fatal outcome, be called a fourth event, when a member of the Intervention Unit killed a young man, Gjorge Zaric, only on the assumption that he owns the personal property of a dangerous guy? How many really dangerous guys in the intervention unit won't even touch 'cause they don't get killed every night? It simply does not know who is more discriminated against, but one thing is clear – if the Serbian generals in The Hague respond because of command responsibility, these cases also require the resignations of top police officials rather than the replacement of the heads of intervention units. It is not enough to say – I am sorry, Reverend Tito's pioneering word, this will never happen again, but will take on both professional and moral responsibility. How can we believe that all forms of discrimination will be suppressed, when it is possible to die because of a misdemeanor assessment of the official? In doing so, those on Interpol's arrest warrants, against whom the Serbia MUP has just filed a criminal lawsuit, and this is about Haradinaj and Thaci. Did they go through the red or do they just have to do it to treat the red warrants? Next, who is entitled to evaluate, determine and sanction the hate speech that is covered here by Article 11, and was eventually sanctioned by the 2003 Public Information Act? What is involved in hate speech and is there a difference in sanctioning hate speech, depending on whether a party member is in power or a party member in opposition? The president of the parliamentary club and the president of all of New Serbia is about to crucify, as he pointed to a violation of procedures and practical dignity ahead of the State Day celebration. Although the prosecutor found that there was no hate speech in the presentation of Velimir Ilic, a man who has allowed many from this current government to have freedom of speech and public expression, a media hack and a real lynch in the Big Brother's house, but also outside. He who is focused to the level of psychopathological fixation of Velimir Ilic, a man whom he once proposed as president of Serbia, has nothing to fill in his empty doctoring and courting to the younger population except to spit out Velya. Is it normal for Mr. Nenada Chanka's immunity to protect against anti-constitutional behavior - a statement about the Vojvodina Republic from this pay phone? When the Metropolitan Amphilochy called Risto - Satan, and representatives of Serbian NGOs of his Nazi and clerofastic fighters, he was not accused of speaking hate, because no one from powerful NGOs reacted. But when banning the Face, as he has tried to ban the SRS in his time, and recently New Serbia -- then there is both the NGO and the government's support. This is a true example not only of discrimination, but of the terror of the minority over most. Furthermore, Article 13 of the same basket puts the cause of inequality based on birth identity and genocide, ethnic cleansing and apartheid. So, when someone insults a lesbian, it's the same thing as when, say, Croats do genocide against Serbs, in action "Blash" and "Storm", and Jasenovac doesn't mention it. It is therefore becoming clear why "the government guard in the winter period" has publicly pledged to withdraw the Serbian lawsuit against the state of Croatia, while removing it from the eyes of the hypersensitive Sanader, our foreign minister, who is not at the will of the Croats. We can only assume what will happen when the same MPs negotiate with representatives of Kosovo. Probably will, since they've met before at conventions called the so-called convention. Socialist internationals, to apologize for the ethnic cleansing of Serbs from their centuries-old hearths. As far as apartheid is concerned, it would be funny if it weren't so stupid, because it's a political doctrine used in South Africa, which has nothing to do with Serbs and Serbia, or maybe in the fantasy of some NGOs, Roma are acting black, and Serbs are white people who are oppressing them. The finding that the vice president of New Serbia and the president of the municipality of Topola, Mr Dragan Jovanovic, wanted the Roma fence not to qualify as a hate speech, although it does not match the truth, even in the minds of the scarred lesbians, especially because Mr. Dragan Jovanovic had just built over four and a half thousand apartments for the Roma. As for Article 18, the representatives of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs have graciously accepted the amendment at the request of traditional religious communities, by giving priests and religious servants the freedom to speak in accordance with religious doctrine, but at the same time discriminated against the believers who would dare to express their religious beliefs, say, in the deaf room. Gays in public, and believers in secret. It's a good thing there's no discrimination. Article 20 speaks of gender discrimination. New Serbia, gentlemen of power, is the only authentic example of respect for the principle of gender equality, as it is the only party in the Serbian parliament that has a third of women MPs. Look and see yourself, because exactly respect for traditional, Christian and national values guarantees true equality between men and women. You're welcome to turn around. For us, it is a particularly important article 22 regarding the ban on child discrimination. What is left in it is that child discrimination exists if they are threatened with the right to national, cultural and religious identity, and no one has the right to change the existing religious identity of a child or to prohibit it from freely exhibiting it. In a conversation with parents whose children are victims of sects, we have come to know that some children’s family accommodation centers allow the child to go to the foster family of the “Jehovah’s Witnesses ” sect. That child is forbidden to communicate with both parents and children of Orthodox religion, to wear a cross around his neck, even to celebrate his birthday. The case of little Sandra, the daughter of Sladjana Jovanovic, became known to the general public after the texts in Pres, without resulting in any action, except for the defamation and serious discrimination of the mother herself. Worst of all, this is not a lonely case for children to be given to sectarians besides so many families and couples in Serbia who have excellent conditions. Article 23 treats age-based discrimination, which does not specify which age is referred to when the elderly are mentioned, nor is it the category of the population concerned, whether they are pensioners and which, or whether they are persons of employment. Furthermore, in conditions where a growing number of middle-aged people lose their jobs, whether because they can't find employment in the labour market, whether because they stopped the need for their jobs, with 10,000 people expected to be out of work monthly, it doesn't matter whether, regardless of their qualifications, there's an unwarranted difference between candidates based only on age. They have been discriminated against both young and medium and old, because employers' will is not limited by legal obligation, and some of them consider candidates too young at 30 years of age, others treat them as old, and others only think about how to suck as much of them as possible, but without paying legally foreseen contributions. The streets are full of people who offer various goods on cardboard boxes or on hoods, and that they are persecuted, because they are called mockery and shame because of the coming Universe, as if they have other solutions, so they are simply crazy, they do not want to keep fancy butys in air-conditioned rooms. What is completely missing from this bill is discrimination among the victims of war, so there is no special category related to civil war victims at all. Tomorrow, 10 years have ended since the start of the 19 countries of NATO's aggression against Serbia. The aggression lasted 78 days, more than 3,500 people died, injured over 10,000. Material damage is estimated at dozens of billions. 7,643 houses, 300 schools, 53 hospitals, 50 churches, 37 bridges and numerous other civilian and military infrastructure facilities were hit or destroyed. The rise in malignancy since 1999 is over 40%. In addition, on 17 February 2008, the aggressors, declaring a false state of Kosovo, reminded us that NATO had carried out the aggression with the aim of breaking Serbia. We must remember the victims of death, but not only at the gatherings that are scheduled for tomorrow, but in a law that must respect the victims of war. By the way, New Serbia tomorrow at the Aval Tower, at 10:30, will propose a memorial of a record on which the names of all victims will be printed. All victims, at least posthumously, deserve equal treatment and obligation to remember, even in this law. Instead, to conclude, in Article 45, we here introduce some principle of objective responsibility, which makes it seriously impossible for the defendant who came into that position to prove that he is not guilty even on the basis of insinuation. Nowhere in EU directives on the prohibition of discrimination is the order to introduce the principle of objective responsibility for discriminatory action, i.e. That the unsub can't prove he didn't do it. It turns out that the minority discriminates against the majority, who is in the position of the defendant, because it has accepted universal postulates about the meaning of human beings and life. It is obvious that Serbia is definitely, Mr Chiplicu, with all due respect to you, a more needed ministry of rights, most of it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15992	Thank you. Anyone else want a word on this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Damjanovic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is Mr. Jovan Damjanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15993	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS welcomes the views of dignitaries of the Orthodox Church, the Catholic Church, representatives of the Muslim religion, the Jewish community, as well as the Slovak Adventistic Church, as well as other communities that oppose the law on homosexualism. Homosexuals should be treated, integrated into a healthy Serbia environment. The Framework Convention of the European Community does not say that this law should be adopted in our society and in our country. Before I express my views, I would like to publicly thank Minister Chiplic, who expressed his satisfaction and his desire to help the Roma community so that she can come to her rights more easily and faster. The Framework Convention of the European Community says: to provide respect for every member of the national minority for freedom, peaceful gathering, freedom of association, freedom of expression, freedom of thought, belief, religion; to provide members of national minorities with access to means of public information, to encourage the creation and use of minority means of information; to recognise the right to use minority language freely and without interference, private, public, orally and in writing, including the right to highlight information in minority language; to take the necessary measures in the field of education, research, to cultivate culture and history of language and religion both the majority and minorities... (President: Time.) Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15994	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radica Jocic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is Mrs. Radica Jocic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15995	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, honourable citizens, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have tabled an amendment to Article 3. The draft law prohibiting discrimination so that Article 2 reads: "The Republic of Serbia, in accordance with international agreements, provides foreigners with all the rights covered by the Constitution and the law, except for the rights which, under the Constitution and the law, have citizens of the Republic of Serbia." In the explanation of a government that does not accept this amendment, it is said to have been rejected because it does not alter the essence and content of the provision. We in the SRS believe that even with 500 amendments, we won't be able to fix this law, because you in the ruling majority got it as a warrant and you have to adopt it the way you wrote it. The essence of the order of words in this amended position, gentlemen, was that, if you did not understand that, in our country, all rights, in accordance with international contracts, other than the rights that only our citizens have under the Constitution and the law, are provided by the state of Serbia, and not by the government's proposal, that a foreigner in the Republic of Serbia has all rights in accordance with international contracts. Gentlemen, this may sound almost the same to you, but without this law, our country has since the 1990s been filled with various foreigners from all countries of the world, who seem to be at home, photographing, recording, writing, taking all kinds of data, yet we, competing with all kinds of NGOs, are giving ourselves information about ourselves and our country, and all in order to provide allegedly some means of strengthening and empowering the capacity of the state for who knows what. Mr. Minister, do you think it's normal... [[off microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15996	Time. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Nikola Savic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is Mr. Nikola Savic, the applicant of the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15997	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to the draft law on the prohibition of discrimination and on the third member of this law, where in the second position of this member, the word "everyone" is deleted. I would like to remind you that this article applies to the rights of foreigners in our country. And this thing, like many previous amendments, has been regulated by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, so there was no need for this intervention that you carried out in law. If you were already going to intervene, it might be better if you intervened in terms of establishing a certain reciprocity, asking other countries to allow our citizens' rights as we do to other citizens of other countries in our country. We know from practice that very often not so, we don't need a private example, I'm going to say just one, we see that the rights of all the Hague indictees from our country and how they break, they are discriminated against in such a way that they have no right to fair and legal trial. To take advantage of the opportunity while you are here, Mr. Chairman, you have allowed the discrimination of the Members of Parliament to take place. On Thursday, when you chaired this assembly, sometime at this time, about six o'clock, you announced that a delayed transmission would take place and that delayed transmission really went, but an hour after midnight. Did anyone in this state of Serbia watch the broadcast at one o'clock in the afternoon, ask yourselves. I'd like to appeal to you to bet your authority that something like this doesn't happen anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15998	Thank you, too. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Veselinović. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Ljubenović. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is submitted by the amendment, MP Tomislav Ljubenovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u15999	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, in front of the SRS parliamentary group, I tabled a bill on banning discrimination against amendments to Article 3 and his second position. Article 3 paragraph 2 reads: A foreigner in the Republic of Serbia, in accordance with international agreements, has all the rights guaranteed by the Constitution and law, except for the rights that only citizens of the Republic of Serbia have under the Constitution and law. The amendment proposed that this position be changed, so it reads: In the Republic of Serbia, according to international agreements, a stranger has all the rights guaranteed by the Constitution and law, except for the rights which only citizens of the Republic of Serbia have under the Constitution and law. This change in the order of words in the second position is not only proposed because of language improvement, but also more clearly determines the rights of foreigners in the Republic of Serbia. This is one of the principles of the Constitution, the position of foreigners, and is regulated by Article 17. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The Republic of Serbia, as well as its Constitution, as the highest legal act, has committed itself to allowing anyone, whether or not a citizen of the Republic of Serbia, to be protected from all forms of discrimination. It is important this time to point out that the rights of foreigners in Serbia are much more protected than the rights of all Serbian citizens in Kosovo and Metohija. As we know, Kosovo and Metohija have been under UN administration since 1999 under Resolution 1244. Meanwhile, Cypriot terrorists have declared the Republic of Kosovo's independence, and Serbs in Kosovo are exposed to all kinds of discrimination.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u16000	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Krstin. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Mr. Christin, someone else? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milan M. Nikolic. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is Mr Milan M. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u16001	Dear People's MPs, an amendment to the draft law on discrimination was tabled on behalf of the SRS. The amendment amends Article 3(2) and reads: "In accordance with international agreements, all rights guaranteed by the Constitution and law by a foreigner in the Republic of Serbia are guaranteed by the Constitution and by law, except for the rights which are subject to the Constitution and the law by the citizens of the Republic of Serbia." Explanation. The amendment proposes to amend that member of the draft law in order to strengthen the constitutional provision laid down in Article 21. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia on the ban on discrimination, which reads: "The Constitution and the law are all equal, etc." The Serbian Radical Party is sincerely against any kind of discrimination. This law is anti-constitutional, legally pointless and impractical. Against this law are all traditional religious communities, prominent personalities, as well as NGOs. The questions discussed in this law are the possession of great human minds, and in every new generation knowledge about them is being expanded, but new dilemmas and areas for further research are being opened in parallel. That is why today it takes great courage to open this issue in this way, and in particular Article 21 of this law, to process and present the public in this form. For these very reasons, it is necessary to define the purpose of some of the members of this law and, at the outset, to determine the position to approach this problem. We've met many times with a constructed...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u16002	Time. Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Vukicevic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Mr Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u16003	Mr. Novakovic, ever since this eight-year-old jaundice took over, everything has been upside down in this country. I didn't talk about the wishes of ex-Retortants standing in front of and behind a bill like this. The court will be very clear about that. Of course, I will try to make a special record that will release all the names of the MPs who voted for this bill, to keep it recorded in history, and, of course, I will make sure that their families, the children, are informed of what their parents have done in the National Assembly. The citizens of the Republic of Serbia must know that this is a simple hoax. I asked for Article 3 to delete Article 2, for one simple reason why attitude 2 devalues what is the basic principle when it comes to a stranger in Serbia and the basic principle regarding the enjoyment of human rights guaranteed to a foreigner in the Republic of Serbia. I get the impression that they need this law, too, so that some kind of perversion can be carried out here unpunished, because this is how there is some public opinion that doesn't accept it. Now I would draw attention to the viewers, you see, this "yellow" government, which came on fire on October 5th, tomorrow marks 10 years from NATO bombing, but the public has already known, since 1999 and 2000, that just some representatives of this coalition have been seeking a further seven days to bring Serbs to their senses. You can see that they can do anything at any moment: they can drop the charges, they can overturn the criminal convictions against NATO criminals, they can take off their pants like that to Europe, and they can mark NATO bombing at the same time... (President: Time.) Mr. Novakovic, at least four seconds. It is not that they are decisive as quickly as possible to join the EU.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u16004	Thank you. Mr. Batic, just to warn you, there are two more minutes of transmission. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u16005	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I didn't report for a debate in particular, so I could take advantage of at least part of my time on this matter and point out something that is truly amazing. At the moment when we have a debate on the draft law on the prohibition of discrimination on the agenda, one minister or one ministry in the government openly advocate and openly propose that discrimination be carried out with regard to proceedings before public authorities, discrimination in the field of work, etc. Who would it be, rather than the Minister and the Ministry of Economy, who are proposing that all working disputes be suspended, that is to say, not to be followed by executive rulings in the disputes that have ended. The responsible government would immediately say goodbye to both the secretary of state and the minister. Of course, who else would that be than Mladjan Dinkic?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-23-0.u16006	With this exposure, today's workday would be over. I'm scheduled to proceed for Wednesday March 25th, starting at 10:00 p.m.
