ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-10-0.u14715	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the First Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 130 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 99 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. more than one third of the MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request an explanation or notification in accordance with Article 235. Rules of Procedure? The word is Mr. Vladan Batic. Here you go. Gentlemen, please allow Mr Batić to speak to us. I pray for silence, gentlemen of the Parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-10-0.u14716	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, I ask for an explanation and a notice from the Minister of Culture, will he do anything about the unconventional laurds involved in the election of our representative on the Eurovision song? It would be really funny if it weren't sad. This 'Beavisia' mirrored our reality, image and opportunity to create a perverse cultural model in Serbia. All that preceded 'Eurovision', that is, the election of our representative, is a joke; reporting candidates, jury composition, changes in jury composition, voting methods, abuses in voting. Each of the candidates had a mandatory program, he was obliged to praise the Public Service, his shows, only missing a picture of the Director of the Public Service. Three years ago, it was our fault, Montenegro. Who's to blame now? I repeat, it is a mirror, a picture and an opportunity for Serbia. I hope the Ministry of Culture will react, because it was supposed to react to what happened at the National Theatre in Philharmonic. Enough funding for suspicious projects, the type of wedding and funeral orchestra, and the debateable projects of Emir Kusturica. It's time to get in the way of that. Well, seeing as how all this is fun for you, I don't want to go any further.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-10-0.u14717	Thank you. Mr. Todorovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-10-0.u14718	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, what Mr Batic has said is happening in a sphere that is not so important for the lives of Serbian citizens, but shows the state in this country, that there is absolutely no single area where there is no mafia, now, as they have called this latest, is related to it if there has been a setup around the election of our Eurovision representative. First of all, I would refer to something that I think is much more important, which is yesterday's session of the Committee on State Administration and local self-government and the relationship of the ruling majority towards the Assembly, Parliament and the citizens of Serbia. Yesterday, you showed your true face and your relationship to the Serbian Parliament. Although in all possible ways you are trying to deceive the citizens of Serbia, arguing that the work of the Serbian Parliament, all the functions it has, is a fraud that you have been trying to do for a long time to achieve your political goals. Yesterday, the Committee on State Administration and Local Self-Government was scheduled for all violations of the law, the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of the Belgrade City Assembly and the introduction of provisional measures into SO Zemun in a completely illegal manner. Unlike all those attempts by the Serbian citizens, where you want to show the SRS committees who are rebelling against something that is simply amazing and that no one could believe that it will happen, those who object to the violations of the Rules of Procedure, against the law, you are advertising them guilty, declaring them those who are obstructing the work and allegedly do not allow the Belgrade City Assembly to work, just as it did last year, when the ruling majority also banned them, i.e. the opposition's committees to propose a candidate for the president of the Belgrade City Assembly. We now have the exact same situation, and last year and this one, Dragan Gilas, by violating the Rules of Procedure and by introducing temporary measures into SO Zemun. All those who rebel against it... Laugh only, but the time will come, I've already said it, but there's a group in this place laughing and it's changed the place, and that's what's going to happen to you. That's not what you're reacting to. Yesterday, not one single member of the ruling majority arrived. You said you wanted to move your work into committees. It's a hoax again. Why didn't you come? You didn't come because it doesn't suit you. Anything that doesn't suit you you don't accept. For you, the basic motive is your political interest. You're not interested in the Constitution, you're not interested in the law, all you care about is whether it's useful for you or not. That way you won't achieve your goals. I'm absolutely sure of it, you'll just allow the citizens to understand before they realize all the frauds you've managed to survive these eight years in power and bring this country into this position it's in. Madam Chairman, I draw your attention to try, I think you have enough experience from that period until 2000, as the terror of the majority ends, to explain to the current coalition partners that it will not be good, especially it will not be good for you because you have taken over the dirtiest part of this business that the "yellow" company is doing, to work for them. Both you here in the Serbian Parliament and your president of the Belgrade City Assembly, Mr. Antic, as a bar singer with that microphone flees the hall to finish what Dragan Gilas ordered him to introduce temporary measures into Zemun municipality, although he is fully aware that he has violated the Rules of Procedure. (President: I thank you, Mr. Todorovic. I'm done. I appeal to a number of DS MPs, who I'm sure are aware of all this is happening, not to be a tool in the hands of those who earn billions on the misery and misery of these citizens every year. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-10-0.u14719	Mr Markicevic, please, the authorised representative of New Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-10-0.u14720	Dear Presidents, fellow MPs, respected Madam Ministers, respected citizens of Serbia. President, I have one question for you, or to answer me here, under Rule 235, what happens to questions that are raised by individual ministers at regular sessions and by the old and new Rules of Procedure? I have to remind you that more than two months ago I asked one question to the Minister of Culture, Mr. Bradic, and I didn't get any answers. If you don't think I'm ill-intentioned, I've asked the question and Minister of Defence Dragan Sutanovac, he has answered me neatly even though it's a state secret and I am telling him from this place, as our Secretary of Defense, that I will keep this state secret. He showed respect for this National Assembly and the MPs, unlike Mr Bradic. I ask you, President, to intervene or publicly inform the Assembly that Minister Bradic will not answer the asked question. Up to these five minutes I have under Article 235, I want to take advantage of Mrs. Minister's presence and ask her a few questions, which I think a good number of Serbian citizens are interested in. I do not want to remind you of the New Serbia amendment that became an integral part of last year's budget rebalancing, which concerns 15 million people with disabilities, since they are still a minority, fortunately Serbian citizens, you told me privately what you said, and I do not want to abuse it for a pay phone, but I am asking you – as long as it has arrived with realisation because, when considering the draft budget, the New Serbia amendment, which provides for the funds of a billion dinars to subsidise tractor purchases for our farmers. It's been almost three months and in public, press and press conferences for individual ministers, we haven't heard anything about what's been accepted by the amendment. I ask you -- is this amendment going to experience the fate of the amendments submitted to ours, so to speak, poor people with disabilities, especially because I don't know on what legal basis the government subsidizes the sale of cars by a private company, from which funds, from the budget, I don't know on what basis, and whether that's a violation of the law, but also that's not the main question, but to answer what is with these billions of dinars, if the budget is less full, we all know that, is now 700-800 million and what is being taken to achieve the solution from that amendment? Believe me, over 200 young farmers, peasants, have called the New Serbia Parliament Club to ask about it. I'm asking if this proposal of ours contained in the amendment will go through as well as the one in the disability amendment. I expect you to respond immediately and so satisfy the curiosity of these people, that this amendment, as well as the amendment regarding disabled persons, is adopted only pro-forma, and that someone does not respect the budget. The budget is the most important law passed during the session by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Moreover, you accepted it and it became an integral part, we didn't even vote on it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-10-0.u14721	Thank you. We'll also do a written emergency on Mr. Bradic today, and this is how we urinate him to answer your question. Mr. Marash, as a representative of the LDP.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-10-0.u14722	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, Madam Minister, the day we had a session where MPs could ask questions to the prime minister and ministers who were present, then you were present when I addressed you and Mr Cvetkovic with the question – is it true that writing in "Politica" is a prolongation of the formation of the joint firm "Srbigas" and "Gasprom" to build the South Stream. It's March 1st. According to that famous document signed by the president of Serbia, the director of "Srbigas" and the energy minister, which is probably called – the basic terms of the basic agreement on which the basic contracts will be based, etc., are foreseen to establish a joint firm between "Srbigas" and "Gasprom" by 1 March 2009 to build a southern flow through Serbia. It's March 10th, the company hasn't been established, it's been a few days since that session, we haven't received an answer in neither session nor after that. So I ask you, if you can, since we're gonna hang out a lot today, to find out from the authorities why something like this was delayed. I'm also interested in the Banatski Dvor – why is this job delayed? Why was the detention of the "Banatski Dvor" warehouse delayed? There was also a deadline in which it had to start, that is to say, it's very important that we know that citizens will freeze again because we don't have gas supplies? You, Madam Minister, have been present in this assembly hall since you've been Minister multiple times. I'm sure you've heard that LDP MPs at least 50 times said the following -- a mine rental that is 3% in Serbia, if the agreement with the Russians on the sale of NIS is voted in this assembly, etc., cannot be raised. The agreement clearly states - the mining rent can never change again! You're saying, the other day in the bathroom, how you're thinking about raising a mine. In LDP, it's no problem for us to remind you of certain things from time to time. We can take the stenograms, a thousand times we've turned our attention to some things, as well as when it comes to this scandalous deal with Gazprom about selling 51% of NIS. I don't understand why this subsequent mind. What is it with you citizens that makes it possible to raise a three-percent ore now? We told you then, just lift up as much as it is in other countries, then in the end, as in the state with which we make a covenant. There's something else I don't think the public is familiar with that you should know. Serbia's oil industry has handed over the final bill in which it has shown its profits. After that, at someone’s intervention, they asked those they had handed over to extend their 15 - day deadline to make some changes in the final account. And what happened after that? There's been a loss in the final account! Why did the state of Serbia give up its profits through the NIS final account? That's what we talked about a few months ago. You can verify all of this, you are the finance minister, the director of the tax administration has been appointed by the finance minister, or the government, so you can verify all of this – is it true that the NIS handed over the first final account in which the profit was shown, and then after that they asked for a 15-day deadline to correct something in that final business report, and after that they handed over as the final final account in which the loss stands? In whose interest? How long, when it comes to this NIS business, will it work this way by our government, or those who run these companies, who run this country? What's with the concessions? I'm not saying you're responsible, but I'm asking you to answer those questions. I'm sure you have the opportunity to come up with those answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-10-0.u14723	Thank you. Ms. Jorvanka Tabakovic, MP group Forward, Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-10-0.u14724	Dear colleagues, and for the sake of Serbian citizens, I use the presence of Finance Minister Mrs Diana Dragutinovic, to appoint...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-10-0.u14725	Mr. Todorovic, I would ask you to control everything that interferes with the work of the Assembly. I'm warning you, sir. I give you a warning, Mr. Todorovic. Here you go. Go on. (For the whole time, the president of the National Assembly's speech, the MPs of the SRS, applaud. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-10-0.u14726	I ask the question -- how many economic operators in the Republic of Serbia are in the blockade, because the information that is being presented in public differs and has been dramatically increased since two weeks ago, when the number was estimated to be 48 000, that this data would be about 60,000 companies these days? My question is not only informative, how many companies are in the blockade, but to answer to the public – how many companies are in the blockade because they owe the state, and based on unmistakable tax obligations and other duties, and how many companies are in the blockade because the state owes them? The fundamental and principled question is whether, since the tax administration complains in public that due to the poor inflow in the budget, there is no means to trigger bankruptcy at a time when we are talking about protecting each job, and the job bankruptcy is not protected, how many of these possible bankruptcys are caused by non-payment of taxes by the taxpayers in the economy towards the state, and how many of those to whom the state owes cannot pay the salaries? I, above all, wonder whether people who are employed in these companies, who are in debt knots, will suffer and while they suffer from this state providing jobs and guaranteeing jobs only to foreign banks, which provide a 5.5, which gives citizens up to 11, which is the price in which they earn, and much higher than the price generated by any bank, the same, but in the mother country, and that the story and marketing management of the state, in which the care of the citizens is reduced in the way some measures are represented, turns into a serious and responsible action, in which we will determine the reasons for the debt node and oblige those who can access credit, at this point, to pay their creditors and suppliers, which depends on the production cycle for them, which is the most important, which depends on the survival of many people, because they are able to earn from the money. Because all of the activities of the state are, in fact, the concrete lives of the citizens and their standards, which are really at stake, and if something is our specificity of the crisis, that is this debt node, which already shows all the seriousness of the situation we are in? It is normal that the state is the first factor, which in this sense has to initiate action and define the situation, come out with concrete data and then start to solve the problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-10-0.u14727	Thank you. Mr Aligrudic, president of the DSS Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-10-0.u14728	President of the Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have a question for you presidents, when will you start to respect us, because you haven't done this since May last year when you became president of the National Assembly? That's a first and a basic question. Since last week, we decided not to come to your consultations on any matter, because they are infertile and serve nothing. We will respond eventually to the invitation of the heads of individual parliamentary groups, regardless of whether they are from the ruling coalition or from the opposition, and if we need to agree on something concrete. What should have been the central place of talks in this Parliament about the work plan, the way it works, the building of a better atmosphere, everything that was supposed to happen in your cabinet than that job has nothing to do with it. The second question is also, for you, do you intend, given that you are walking in Serbia and promoting the Statute of Vojvodina with individual members of your coalition, not political parties, but coalitions, as President of Parliament to give us your position on the proposed Statute of Vojvodina, is this in line with the Constitution or not? Is it according to you and the president of your party, Ivica Dacic, in accordance with the Constitution or not? The president of your party has made a statement that – if a professor of law tells him or if he hears that he has publicly pointed out that the proposal is not in line with the Constitution, your political party will be against the proposal. As far as I know, the professor of Law School Ratko Markovic, who was, by the way, a member of your party and whom you greatly respected, as far as I know, said that this was not in accordance with the Constitution. I'd very much like to hear your attitude. It's important to me to work in the National Assembly. I can't concentrate well enough on my work unless I know what you as Parliament's president thinks, because that's quite significant for us. I know you're the president of all of us and those floscules, but it's very important to me that I can work in this home in peace. Another thing that interests me, and I don't know if you can ask the president of the state, if you can't go directly to the Rules of Procedure, since apparently the president of the state has a good link to the prime minister, although this is basically a question for the prime minister and foreign policy – Boris Tadic was in Spain and there he spoke with the king, with other officials and, as far as I can tell from the news this morning, it was pointed out by Spain that he would never recognise independent Kosovo. And then Boris Tadic, competing in Spanish-Serbian patriotic statements on the protection of Serbia's territorial integrity, also stressed that he would never recognise an independent Kosovo. My question to him was very simple – how is he not ashamed?- I'm sorry. Spain is a state that has an interest in not recognising independent Kosovo, and it certainly suits us. And Spain is obviously a friendly country in that sense. The problem in Boris Tadic's head is, which is amazing, how the leader, that one country's president who is threatened with territorial integrity has the cheek to come to the heads of another country, which has no problem, their integrity in this sense is not at risk, KiM is not an integral part of Spain but Serbia, and that what he can say to officials of Spain, who are hosts, is the repetition of the same sentence spoken by hosts: "We will never recognise independent Kosovo. '"I'd be embarrassed if I were him, and here all the moves he's making, and the problem, it bothers you, right? And it should bother you, and you should be ashamed of everything, and the fact that you're a little upset is because you're uncomfortable. Of course, so how are you going to sit there all together and then you're embarrassed. So President Tadic has no shred of shame that he is unable to say one sentence more than that, but that's why his government, which was designed only to trade with its territory, a dead 'cold summons EULEX,' the dead 'cold concludes the SAA at the time when it is known that he is just a simple element of blackmail. That's what you do. That's what you do. Is it possible through the prime minister to ask Boris Tadic, I ask you, Parliament Speaker? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-10-0.u14729	Thank you. I respect all MPs, in accordance with all the acts that oblige me to do so and with personal relations with you, and you interpreted the position of the Socialist Party president, which is also the position of all the Socialists in connection with the Statute of Vojvodina. Do any of the presidents and representatives want a word? No, I don't. ) Since none of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, respond to the word, we continue to work. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Nenad Canak, Velimir Ilic and Milan Lapčević. We move to item 12 of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of the Law on the Tax Procedure and Tax Administration (principle search) You have adopted the Bill on Amendments and Supplements of the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, shall be five hours in principle, as well as that this time shall be allocated to MPs' groups of MPs by a proportion of Members of the Parliament's group, and that shall be the MEP for European Serbia – one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; the SRS Group - one hour, nine minutes and 24 seconds; the G17 Plus Parliament Group – 28 minutes and 48 seconds; the DSS - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; the Parliamentary Group of the SRS, Serbia - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; the SPS - 18 minutes; the MEP Group LDP - 14 minutes and 24 seconds; the Parliament group Nova Serbia - 10 minutes and 48 seconds; the E-mail group Manjina – eight minutes and 24 seconds and the PUPS Group – six minutes. According to Article 93(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, MP, Mr Vladan Batic, who is not a member of any parliamentary group, has the right to speak for up to five minutes. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately, with a number of MPs. I would like to inform you that under this agenda, MPs will be: Zoran Kasalović – SPS - JS, Jorvanka Tabaković – Forward, Serbia and Mr Slobodan Maras – LDP. According to Article 142, paragraph 1. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a search in principle. Does the proposal's representative, Dr Diana Dragutinovic, the finance minister, want a word? Yeah. Here you are, Madam Minister. Madam Minister, Mr Dragan Stevanovic is an authorised representative of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-10-0.u14730	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, perhaps a few sentences, as possible answers to the questions asked, and then to start by explaining the law that is on the agenda. The law on the Republic of Serbia's budget for any year, even for 2009, is the country's most important law. However, as is usually the case, often some expenditures are not carried out. Why aren't the expenses carried out? Let's just say, because the revenues that were planned didn't come true. That's how it was in 2008. In 2008, the revenues achieved were about 5% lower than planned. The expenditure was lower, too, by 5% of the planned expenditure. Therefore, not all expenditure has been realised, as not all revenues have been realised. As you know, the Budget System Act, which you often call me for, defines some of the priority expenditures. So those expenditures that have priority over others and these are salaries, transfers to social insurance organisations and social expenditures, above all public debt obligations. Subsidies are simply and different types of discretionary expenditures not priority expenditures. So, if something hadn't been done in the 2008 budget, it was discretionary expenditures, where we had to cut expenditures because we didn't have those incomes we planned. We're now in 2009 and that's true. Don't forget that we're in the first quarter of 2009 and that really January and February are the month away from typical months just by the number of working days. If we want to see what normal working days are in one month, that's 22 days. In January and February, we had only 18 and 19 working days. What does that mean when it comes to money, even if the budget isn't filled with the kind of dynamic we planned? That means between five and eight billion dinars a month less. Therefore, there are expenditures that we all plan in our heads as one twelve. There are revenues that are significantly lower, first because the number of working days is lower. So in the first quarter of the country, or the Ministry of Finance, practically as a priority, they will have those expenditures that are priority. As far as the Banatian Court is concerned, I really don't know what delay it is. Putting in office of the Banatski Dvor is also related to some expenditure and these expenditures, unfortunately, are not planned in the budget. There was an attempt to find a way to put the Banatski Dvor into office, and as far as I know in the final phase, negotiations with two institutions ready to invest, i.e. to lend Serbia under favourable conditions to put Banatski Dvor into office by the end of the summer, so before the beginning of the heating season. I didn't take my exposure to the Kopalnik as a way to fool the public, as someone said, so I offered no solutions at the time, because it's not the role of the finance minister, it's the options. So, I'm not sure if it's your idea, I'm really sorry if I don't think it's, uh, a mine rental, which I found last year in the CERAS research. There was a project where they explained how low the mineral rent was in our possession compared to the world. I've put only possible options in place and essentially opened the gas issue, so it's not just oil, it's gas, whether to increase the rent when it comes to gas. As for the NIS final account, I heard and already that final account is in my cabinet, indeed, I have to look at which items have been repaired, so yes, that's a fact, a loss has been reported instead of winning, but nothing is finished until it's finished, it should be accepted first by that final account. How many companies are in the blockade? Is there more to whom the state owes or those who owe the state? There's definitely more of those who owe the state, and as far as it's concerned, I don't know right now. The government is aware there's a debt knot, I think it's somewhere on the verge of a solution. As for subsidising interest rates, no interest rates are subsidized, as you say to foreign banks, all banks are local, some are in the hands of foreign owners, that's true, but I think the Commercial Bank is a domestic bank, in the hands of domestic owners, who also subsidize interest rates. Now let's get to the law. In front of us, or before you, is the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, which the Government has sent to the National Assembly for consideration and adoption. I do not think it is disputed that the basic task of the tax administration, i.e. the tax administration, is to control and collect public revenues in order to ensure stable public finances. In order for this to be possible in life, the tax administration itself and the tax administration itself must change, i.e. they must change in response to changes in the fiscal system. They must also change because they constantly and continuously shape the business environment in a way that is as stimulating as possible for new investments. In that sense, a set of solutions that are in front of you, in fact, is trying to make tax administrations or tax administrations something that is business service, i.e. management that is practically customer-oriented – directed towards clients. This required changing some solutions, increasing the safety of taxpayers and increasing the capacity of the tax administration. When I talk about increasing the capacity of the tax administration, I don't mean quantitatively, not the number of people, but their quality. I suggest we move on to what represents the most important changes in this bill compared to the existing one. The first, and most important change is the application and functioning of the one-shot system when assigning a tax identification number. Then, a series of solutions that increase the taxpayer's safety. Finally, the third set of changes relating to strengthening the capacity of the tax administration. In all, I think more than 30 members of the law have been changed. We certainly believe that the greatest contribution and the greatest step forward, when it comes to the proposal for this law, is in relation to the current state, application and functioning of the one-stop shop system when assigning a tax identification number. I suggest we start with the fact that the situation is today and now on the ground. So, when companies are opened, every entrepreneur or future company owner goes through several procedures and wanders from one institution to another, in order to finish a business called the start of a business. This job is measured by the number of days and the number of expenses. The higher the number of procedures, the more institutions you have to go to, of course, the higher the costs and the greater the number of days. In this regard, there is a World Bank survey that ranked Serbia in a relatively low place, a bad place. It is 94 out of 181 countries, if you watch how many days it takes to launch, or open a company. For the closure of businesses in Serbia, it is necessary, according to the current state of affairs, six working days. What was done with this bill? It's all done in one place, on one counter. This does not question – who actually issues that tax identification number. The tax identification number remains in the hands of the tax administration, but the requirement for that number and the allocation of the solution is now in one place, and this place is called – Agency for Business Registers. That way, instead of six days, to start a business, to open a company, it will now take 24 hours. Otherwise, everywhere in the environment, mostly in European countries, it doesn't take more than one working day for a job like this. The second group of changes in this bill, in relation to the existing situation, is what the tax administration faced in implementing the applicable law and what it was facing in court practice. A number of solutions have been proposed that will certainly increase the efficiency of forced collection, as well as regular charges, and above all increase the safety of taxpayers. I would just taxively cite a few solutions that I think are significant progress in relation to the existing law. For example, if the estimated value of the movable property is greater than the amount of the tax liabilities or if a third of the initial value of fixed items is greater than the tax liabilities, the rest shall be returned to the taxpayer. This must ensure greater legal certainty for the taxpayer. Furthermore, the second major change is, I think, and you will assess it, by increasing the efficiency of public sales by introducing a deposit obligation, which makes up 10%, but if the value of public sales means this moving thing, or if its value is greater than 200 thousand dinars, so if the buyer does not pay the contract value within eight days – then the deposit is permanently taken away from him. Of course, there is also the right to prevent the purchase of real estate, which is a proposal for forced collection. So the one who has the right to prevent buying, if he accepts the terms of the highest bidder, has the right to buy immovable property. Finally, as I also consider changes to the best and significant shift in relation to the existing law, it is, i.e. a general limitation period of 10 years is introduced and thus there is equal treatment of legal persons, entrepreneurs and citizens, regardless of whether it is a public relationship or a bond relationship. The third group of changes in this bill, in relation to the existing solution, is strengthening in the technical sense of the tax administration, i.e. the tax administration. So a series of solutions are foreseen, with the goal of providing four of the following things. First, to really strengthen professionalism and professional training of employees who carry out the most diverse and complex jobs in the tax administration and tax administration, therefore – control operations, regular forced collection and detection of tax offences. Also, businesses that are incompatible with official duty and the rules of conduct of tax officials and tax holders are fully arranged. The conditions for managing the effect have been created, providing practically the motivation of people to progress in their profession and to have greater responsibility in carrying out trusted tasks. Finally, solutions have been provided that allow horizontal mobility within the tax administration, i.e. administration. As you know, the tax administration has a very complex territorial organisation, so there are four levels of tax administration organisation, which is: the Central Tax Administration, Regional Centres and the Centre for Large Tax Obligors, Branches and Exposures, so four levels. There is no doubt that in Central and regional centres, i.e. the Centre for Large Tax Obligors and some branches, which are larger, which are branches a), numbering between 100 and 200 employees, in fact, the jobs carried out at these levels of government are far more complex and transactions are far more complex than they are, for example, in some branches b), c) etc. or exposure. So it was an idea to expand the rank of calling, which would ensure people's motivation to work in these more complex forms of organization. In addition to the selection itself that is extremely important in selecting employees working in the tax administration, employment control is likely to be much more important. In this sense, there is, or is proposed, the existence of an internal control group, which should sanction any possible irregularity and illegality in work. Some newspapers have also been introduced, such as, say, an explicit ban on tax officials, but not only them, but also members of their family cannot be owners, for example. an economic operator whose activity is in a close relationship with the work of the tax administration. Why were there solutions that would provide better quality work and better staff in the tax administration? Because in recent years, there's been a major fluctuation in the employment of the IRS. Basically, it's two groups of problems. One group of problems, we have a large number of relatively older personnel. These are the personnel who started their careers in the SDK, no longer work at the NBS, who took over part of the staff and no longer work, say, in the Treasury of the Republic of Serbia, they stayed in the Tax Administration, and they had a pension there, or they are close to retirement. So there's been a shift of generations. As far as auditor training itself is concerned, the last major training was carried out in 1990, and then the Tax Administration Training Centre was formed since 2004. He started working more as a support to VAT, but the real training, if we want to be honest, started only in 2006 and focused on the tax procedure, forced payment and profit tax. Six thousand people went through that kind of training. These are people who are quite attractive to the market, for employment in the financial sector, in banks, insurance companies, but also in the real sector. In addition, under the Law on the financing of local public self-government from 1 January 2009, practically local self-governments are taking over the functions of local tax administrations, which further affects the reduction of the capacity of taxpayers in the tax administration. So, precisely because of the depletion of personnel, because of the great fluctuation of personnel, the ideas and intentions of this law were to continue to focus on trainees, but also to keep trained in the tax administration which had passed that training that took a minimum of five years, better solutions in terms of rewarding and training and staff control. That would be about the basic paper of this bill. I think this is a major improvement compared to the existing law and therefore I ask the MPs to support this law. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-10-0.u14731	Thank you, Madam Minister. Mrs. Pop-Lazic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-10-0.u14732	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Chairman, I remind you of article 36. The Rules of Procedure, which says: "The delegation group participates in the work of the National Assembly in the manner set out in these Rules of Procedure. "That's why I would like to ask you where it says in the Rules of Procedure that MPs are forbidden to applaud? So, you're allowed to break, break, burn, kidnap, steal, steal, lie, do whatever you want, it's not for any punishment, no reproof, no warning, but when the representatives of the SRS are applauding in one civilized way, you can interpret that we welcome what you say, you can interpret that we resent what you're saying, but that absolutely does not endanger anyone, you express the warning measure to the president of the SRS Group, of course, in order to get him off the session, first him, and then me, and then everyone else. You can do it. Of course we will respond properly. Don't worry, it'll be organic, no one will have any adverse consequences, except it'll be unpleasant. If you want to silence everything here in Parliament, then it is no longer Parliament, then declare that Parliament is no more. You yourself, with three MPs of the parliamentary majority, can work with one minister who will come, if he comes, and you will not have a group of MPs behind him and how many voters. (President: Time. ) This attitude of yours shows your relationship with the citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-10-0.u14733	Mrs Pop-Lazic, in accordance with Article 106, "The notice is given to the MP – if other procedures violate the order of the session or act against the provisions of this Rules of Procedure. "Your applause was obviously not a applause of support and approval. (Dragan Todorovic, from the place: How do you know that? I use logic. Don't make me flaunt until I give you my word. I didn't give you a warning, I warned you. When a warning is said, it is said "I pronounce a warning", and when warned and warned, it is something that is before it. Look for a stenogram. Do the rapporteurs of the Finance and Legislative Committee want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Mr. Dragan Stevanovic answered first.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-10-0.u14734	Madam Chairman, can I have a round of applause after the final presentation? Will my colleagues be able to applaud me if I finish my presentation successfully? Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the law that is before us today, Mrs Dragutinovic has today tried to promote and present the following sentence – that it should respond to changes in the fiscal system. Mrs Dragutinovic, the SRS partly believes that it is true, but what is our point of view from which we will attack and challenge this law is that this law is not the answer to reality and harsh economic reality in the state. In part, it may, as I said, but essentially absolutely not. In essence, when you put it in relation to the problem this country has in terms of tax revenues, tax systems and administrations, you know what this law looks like? It's like some rotten mudboard on a car painting, so you paint it, and it seems to exist, and it's basically rotten and gone. You see, you are a minister in this government who because of this law either deserves an order or deserves to be resolved. In the SRS, you would be given an order because you have set the reasoning of this law on the first four or five sides so conceptually that you have not mentioned the EU in a single word. That's certainly something to admire. So the adoption of this law has not brought into the context of our European integration at all, and that's good. That's good because someone in the government finally realized that something should be done in government because of Serbia, because of our tax or economic system, but not because the Brussels administration is asking us to. Even where you mentioned European integrations and European processes, you did not directly bring them into contact with this law. objectively, that's why you deserve the Order. Will these behind you suggest to the Prime Minister your resolution or to this great boss of yours, I don't know, but you have assumed objective responsibility. As far as we're concerned, we don't think that this law will essentially devise the tax system, that is, the tax procedure and the administration and the law that already exists. We appreciate your efforts to affirm the existing law, as you said earlier. However, we believe that these are certainly not the appropriate measures for Serbia to go to in the year it started in 2009. We believe that reason in this government would be addressed today by some of the much more important economic issues and content that would represent the essential answers to the problems that we have today. You've tried to talk about these problems together with that light on the Kopalnik, and we've got two great messages from the Bather. They were said by your great boss. One is, you'll be dealing with the tycoons, if he were honest, he could do it right away, because he had 10 tycoons in the front row. The second message was that it would deideologies the economic system in Serbia. There is the essence of the problem, and it is absolutely the right of the SRS to challenge political intentions through this law and all the other laws that you propose, without contesting your professional qualities and perhaps your personal and professional intentions to edit something in the economic system. When we talk about this law, our discussion in principle will be purely political. In essence, we will enter the law when we talk through the discussion of details, or amendments that we have submitted to the text of this law, believing that you will have heard of it and that these amendments or most of them you will accept. We'll do a political review. The best cream for such a thing gives, as I said at the beginning of the reasoning of this law. What is first and most interesting is that this law, i.e. the amendment and addition of the Law, needs to ensure stability of public finances in the coming period. Yes, in part, we agree with you, but the stability of public finances that are very important for the next period in this country, above all, should ensure the political stability that is not in this country, the political stability that the current regime is working against every day from the highest to the lowest level of state administration, or government. Political instability, and hence the instability of public finances, has been defined from the moment this government was formed and because of the way it was done. This is reflected at the lowest local level, so today in Serbia and in two-thirds of Serbia, you do not have stable local leadership. In municipalities, they deal with shifts, appointments, resolutions, leaving the government, forming new coalitions and inspiring everything is exactly the party that made you Minister of Finance. Why am I saying this? I'm saying this because you, DS, the government in Serbia and some other organisations have just started the story and insist that some of the tax revenues begin to collect at local level, property tax and some other incomes that are the original revenues of local self-government. The fact that local self-governments function and live in the atmosphere in which they live today cannot promise that the tax system in this country will be stable. I know that might not be touching you in any way. You're not a man of politics, I assume you're a man of the profession. We who live far from Belgrade, which you have mentioned in your explanation, as he is in the biggest human problem, in the biggest problem is because he is also the biggest city, but the problems with the tax system and the tax administration are nothing smaller in another smaller environment. They're smaller by the size, because the middle is smaller. Those problems don't touch you. However, it is difficult to live everywhere and the economic system is objectively due to a politically unstable situation threatened from the lowest to the highest level. When we talk today about the part of tax revenues relating to local self-government, we need to examine how serious and responsible the country was in principle and in the previous period when the tax departments were established, i.e. the authorities that will take those revenues. You're in last year, not personally, but the state has twice knocked out a tender that was supposed to provide software and technical equipment for the installation of those departments. They were shot down for the presence of corruption and crime in the public procurement process, I presume. The tax administration departments in local self-government authorities received unsustainable, unsystematised documentation from tax administrations, and there is still absolutely no coordination at the level at which it is necessary, cadastre, competent municipal authorities, tax administrations. In that sense, Serbia, when tax revenues are at that level, represents one forest that will be difficult to break up, and especially with such cosmetic laws that will essentially change nothing, as I said, only cosmetically. When we talk about the stability of public finances, we're talking about revenues and expenditures, as you mentioned earlier. One objective question arises, how fundamentally these amendments and additions of the law will ensure stability of public income. You have just spoken unrelated to this law, but it is indirectly related, to the fact that January and February, the first quarter, are not adequate income rappers if we analyze them. I will be guided by what you published on the Ministry's website, which is parallel to the revenues in January this year and the previous year and what's the fact is that a drastic decline has been recorded. I said drastic, because 20% isn't small. It's around here somewhere, so be it. I agree, the smaller number of working days was in January last year, allow me, I agree, Madam Minister. We compare the parameters, i.e. the data from this January and January of the previous year, when the number of working days was small in both last January and this year. It doesn't matter now. We have a decline in production, we have the smallest production compared to the same period from 2001 to today. We have a drop in imports, we have a drop in exports, you have a decrease in VAT-based incomes. The essence of the whole story won't solve what you're going to make changes in the tax procedure or tax administration. But this country has a problem with not having a substrate to draw tax revenues from. We can't drain dry wood, we can't drain from the rock water. What's yesterday or what's today or what we're supposed to discuss tomorrow is how to respond to these challenges. You said earlier, this country is on the verge of a solution. I think our tracks are getting out, and every day it's gonna get worse and worse. When we talk about the stability of public finances, we need to talk about public expenditures. You in Serbia today, after all, and in front of everything that awaits you have an expansion of public spending, which is essentially not the problem of public spending in Serbia. The main problem is the structure of public consumption. The SRS does not think that this bill in the field of tax administration will burden you in one negative context the structure of public spending. It's a good thing the state is finally taking care of human resources in an area related to the tax system of the state. Wherever politics has been involved, which has been in force in this country for the last eight years or is in a situation to enforce a certain law, it devalues and becomes meaningless. You're in a period of time, if you look behind us, you've had a situation, and now I'm going to set an example, that all this serious stuff is being politicized and questioned, even the country's serious intentions due to some cheap party and political interests. You had a case in every building, tax department or branch where the payment service or vault have the offices of the municipal board of G17 plus. It's an experience that's behind us. There is not a moment of what should be a public interest or political responsibility when it comes to public finances. I'm not saying it's your commitment, and it's your attitude, but you're caught in a car that's hard to get out of, and you might find it difficult to deal with cheap political, personal and party interests as a responsible professional. You will be the victim of a political misunderstanding, but you have taken responsibility for yourself and you will have to take that burden with you. You should also look at the fact that you are engaged in tax administration through these cosmetic changes. On the one hand, inefficient, there are still traces of red tape and ink from the previous period. Here you said in your explanation, you also mentioned tax indiscipline, insufficient tax discipline. The administration as it is, it may not have been capacitative to create tax discipline, to create tax culture in this country, but one objective question is raised – what has the government in Serbia been doing for eight years? I agree if those who have gained citizens' confidence in correcting what they have found, but why has this tax system not improved and raised to a higher level? We today find, after eight years of looking at Europe, that we have tax indiscipline and tax indiscipline and at a very delicate moment for the economic system, not only of Serbia, but of the whole world and of the environment. What's good is, I repeat, it's a good thing you want to deal with human resources in some way. Today in Serbia because of the general climate and atmosphere, which you have created as executive power over the last eight years, the question arises how many people you think or want to hire in the tax administration to do their jobs can you identify people who are willing to sacrifice themselves for public interest? In eight years, how many people, especially in young people, have we built awareness of the presumption of public interest? Why should we deal with the public interest when they can deal with themselves in a much easier and significantly relaxing way? I repeat again, here your professional intentions are and, let me say, essential intentions may not be disputed, but the SRS in one serious way raises the question of how much this law will be possible, how much law enforcement will be as well as all the laws that this Parliament has dealt with both in this and in the previous term, which have come into question when it comes to their application. As far as the SRS is concerned, we have submitted amendments. The essence and form of the amendment followed the essence and form of this bill of yours. We've been working through the amendments and through all these four points that you just mentioned, or three, and the tax administration and the tax procedure. I believe that these amendments will be understood, unless they fundamentally amend your law, or essentially change it, and the changes that we have provided for through these amendments could only aphirm and improve everything that you have predicted that we should change here through the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax Administration and the Tax Procedure. So, Madam Minister, we'll have a lot of questions for you in the discussion in particular and we believe you'll have an answer for them. I repeat again, the SRS believes that this law will essentially not provide what is essential to this country when it comes to the tax system, when tax procedures are and when there is a need for the stability of public finances at all. I think we're dealing with cosmetics, and we're not dealing with essential things that are vital to life and that will truly be the answer to the economic problems that await us in the coming period. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-10-0.u14735	Thank you. The word has a representative of the SPS-United Serbia Parliamentary Group, Mr Zoran Kasalovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-10-0.u14736	The Honorable President, the Honorable Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, was established on the day of the start of the application of the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, as of 1 January 2003, a single waterhouse was established in relation to earlier times, and above all with regard to the role and competence of the Tax Administration in the Republic. The new Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration set a solid legal basis for the entirely new role of the tax administration as the only tax authority in the Republic. Earlier, to remind the SDK and the PDO, ex ante control of public revenues, taxes and contributions paid at deduction, thus making it a sort of system of double tax administration, which certainly made it difficult to manage the fiscal policy of the Republic of Serbia in the emerging modern market conditions. That is why it was necessary, and the Tax Procedure and Tax Administration Act has succeeded in uniting the overall activity in the process of determining the collection and control of taxes and other public revenues under the auspices of one administration body, the tax administration. Taxes are the most significant form of public income in modern countries, so of course in the Republic of Serbia. The fact itself already sufficiently confirms the importance of the tax administration, as well as the employees of the tax administration, and hence the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration which regulates this matter, which is the subject of today's principle debate. Just as the start of the application of the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration established a waterworks in terms of role and jurisdiction, and therefore, the importance of the tax administration in our society, the proposed solutions, in particular in Article 24, which is added by the new members of 169a to 169c Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration. The promoter, it seems, wants to establish another waterworks this time in relation to the current labour-legal status of taxpayers in the tax administration, who long await this kind of change, and the matter in detail regulates this bill and significantly improves the status of employees in the tax administration, establishing, as the proposer states in the explanation, the pay system as a basic motivational factor of employees, with a clearly precise procedure and opportunities for promotion in the service, can say quite justifiable, which confirms the profit data of some twenty thousand for middle professional staff, and only a thousand more for those with high preparation, and only slightly more than 45 thousand for highly skilled personnel, along with the permanent outflow of staff and with increasingly complex jobs and increased responsibilities. I would not agree with the view that only in terms of the outflows of personnel with high professional equipment are threatened or the most endangered Belgrade and major cities. That's got to be meant. In smaller municipalities, above all, there are fewer and fewer educated, especially young people, and the increasingly pronounced process of migration from smaller communities to larger and towns, which in this respect certainly have the possibility of selecting and choosing. At first glance, it could be said that the allocation of larger funds to improve the material position, i.e. the income of the tax administration employees, will produce an expensive tax administration and an increase in the costs of the tax procedure. This is the only way it can look, it is known and proved precisely that indeed direct costs with a reduction in the number of taxpayers are increasing and with this greater problems have fewer countries such as the Republic of Serbia. Of course, various measures are being taken in this regard. What is quite safe and proven is that the tax administration, which is inefficient, slow, when determining taxes and other collection revenues, and especially if weakly controlled, produces significantly higher costs and these costs are significantly increased. Also, by creating a good professional tax collector with knowledge and legal and economic sciences and one experience, which is achieved only by working in the tax administration, it is a long and expensive process and that the re-creation of a non-efficient and inefficient tax administration would have cost a lot more than to perform the necessary motivation of employees, primarily through profit and, of course, to provide the necessary conditions for work. In this regard, I would also like to call on the Resort Ministry and the IRS to, above all, make significant improvements in the work and efficiency of taking all measures in terms of uniting tax accounts, i.e. the card of taxpayers who are being led at this point double to so on. The DIS system and the system of the Michael Pupin Institute. This would significantly speed up and facilitate operational work. The alignment has been going on a few years ago, and I think this process needs to be completed as soon as possible. What solutions for the labour status of persons employed in the tax administration are proposed to Article 24, i.e. in the new Article. 169a to 169c, which I would single out as quite correct and precise, and their application will achieve the effect of staff consolidation of the tax administration and the required number of taxpayers built at any time, primarily the way in which execution jobs are filled indefinitely. It is proposed, as a rule, to be conducted through a public competition and can also be taken over by state officials from another state body, Article 169a, with a paper that the establishment of a working relationship for a certain period of time can be based for up to 12 months instead of the previous, in my opinion a worse solution, up to six months. The procedure is detailed and makes a step forward in relation to the complicated establishment of a working relationship that has been regulated so far by the Law on civil servants and tenants. The call of tax officials shall be governed by the provisions of Articles 169j to 169o with a view to classifying them into two basic groups, calling on basic functions and providing for 14, therefore, in the functions of determining the collection and control and calling of other functions, 11 of them are foreseen, with the six conditions specified to obtain a higher calling and two conditions for the loss of calling provided for in Article 169m. It should certainly be mentioned here as good solutions in Article 169j position 4. that the tax officer whose work in the last two years has been assessed by an unsatisfactory assessment ceases his employment relationship, as well as in Article 169o in paragraph 3 which is foreseen that the tax administration may be extraordinaryly advanced only once, thereby strengthening the objective effect of the procedure. Central solutions and those that must be most interested at this time in the tax administration, as I said, long await them, are proposed in Art. 169p to 169u, and they refer to the future way in which the basic salary will be determined, according to the proposal in Article 169p. 1 and Article 2 shall consist of the basis established by the Government, the basic and additional coefficient in the range of 20 to 50% of the basic coefficient, depending on knowledge, specific working conditions, responsibilities, etc. In the same article's position 7, it is prescribed that the level of the basic and additional coefficient of pay group and payment classes will be arranged by the minister, and I hope in a way and with the use of legal opportunities that will indeed be stimulating and significant to contribute to improving the material position of employees in the tax administration. In the case of employees, I would also like to point out the provisions provided for in Article 169f which clearly specify matters incompatible with the official duty and the new obligation of the tax officer to make, under material and criminal responsibility, a written statement on the data that are relevant for determining the existence of a conflict of interest in work, item 5, as well as provisions prescribed by Article 169c, which provide that the tax officer for the serious injury of duty from a working relationship may be subject to a disciplinary move to a job directly in a lower term of six months to two years – I believe that the proposed solutions will significantly contribute to the more disciplined and responsible work of all employees in the tax administration. Of course, the current administrative and judicial practice, which has developed in the application of the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, has also shown the need to clarify and specify certain provisions and this proposal for the Law amending and supplementing the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration is currently offering certain solutions in this regard. First of all, a very significant cross-examination procedure for the tax base laid down in Article 59. The Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, otherwise specific to the income tax of natural persons, should represent a powerful weapon in the hands of the tax administration to determine undeclared income in the control process, but did not justify expectations in the previous period. Among other things, one of the essential parameters in the asset value control process at the end of the calendar year was not possible to establish in a completely factually valid manner, because the funds used by the taxpayer to purchase assets on behalf of third parties in the calendar year could not be included in its assets with a condition on the 31.12th calendar year, and it is clear how the taxpayers acted, better to say the results. With a proposal for a solution in Article 6 of this proposal, this inaccuracy is exceeded and allows the tax administration to regain powerful weapons by applying this institute in the process of determining undeclared income. What will certainly speed up the collection process is that according to the provisions of Article 2. The draft law requires a taxpayer to be able to settle his obligations on a second basis, by rewriting more or less of the tax paid, and so far it has not been possible. This increases taxpayers' tax rights in the tax procedure. At the very end, next to the others, I would point out the provisions of plan 10. A bill that overcomes the apparent obstruction in practice when forced collection of movable items and the reference auctioning that is subsequently not paid, and the process of collection slows and stalls. This will no longer be possible because it is prescribed that the sale of mobile items whose individual value exceeds 200 thousand dinars can only be made by persons who make a deposit of 10% of the estimated value and in the event that the buyer of movable items within eight days of the date on which he is given a record on the sale of movable goods does not pay the amount for which the movable thing has been sold to him, the sale is invalid in relation to that buyer, and the buyer loses the right to recover the deposit and cannot be the bidder in the process of selling that thing in the follow-up procedure. The SPS-JS Parliament Club considers that the proposed solutions for amending and supplementing the Tax Procedure and Tax Administration Act are necessary and good, in particular in the part of improving the working-law status of persons employed in the Tax Administration and therefore in principle supports the draft law amending and supplementing the Tax Procedure Act and the tax administration. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-10-0.u14737	Thank you, Mr. Kasalovich. The word has Mr. Marash on behalf of the LDP Group.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-10-0.u14738	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, at first I must say that LDP considers these amendments to the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration necessary. We can split them into two parts. The first part can be said that in some sense, a bit of correct cosmetics, however, the second part of working relationships, which regulates labour-legal relations, which is primarily Article 24, is considered to be welcome, a little late, or rather rather late, but is very welcome for the simple reason that employees in the tax administration in this way are separated from the Law on civil servants, which has been a major problem so far for employees in the tax administration. We have often said here that the position of the tax administration employees is completely inadequate to the work they do, the importance they have for the state, that is, collecting taxes and filling budgets. I must tell you that in your presentation you have noted, Madam Minister, if I have followed well, that five years is necessary for the education of employees. We both know that it was a shorter period in which they were employed, five-six thousand have been trained, and we believe that the step taken after 2000, when it comes to the tax administration, may be one of the most significant steps taken after 2000 in the state service. Education centres have been established through which a large number of employees have passed. On this basis, we have received a large number of quality personnel in the tax administration, a large number of inspectors who could boast of their knowledge. We also had employees at the Tax Administration who had been educating businesses and this very large number of these educations were held especially when VAT was introduced. You forgot one thing to say, you said that this is how a large number of trainees are admitted to the tax administration in a much easier way, i.e. to start working relationships in a much easier way – what is the key problem, which is why people from the tax administration are leaving? The key problem, which leaves tax administration personnel, is that salaries are miserable in the tax administration and now changes to this law, the systematicisation that should follow must be followed and improved by the material position of employees. I'm going to give you an example of one of the largest branches in Serbia, which is a branch of the Novi Sad 2 Tax Administration, where there are 40 inspectors who are supposed to control 13,000 taxpayers, who are entrepreneurs, according to the systematization. It's a little different in the field, since that New Now 2 branch covers the entire South Baba County and that number of taxpayers is higher. What happened until New Year's Eve? Three inspectors left the IRS in that branch, two others announced their departure. You said in your statement that jurisdiction is transferred to local self-government regarding certain taxes, etc., but last year we asked, or I specifically, only 47 municipalities were trained in Serbia to take on those obligations. In many municipalities and towns in Serbia, the local tax administrations have not yet been revived. What happens the day they come to life? The salaries will certainly be better than in the Republic Tax Administration, and then we can expect a certain outflow of personnel. I can tell you that a large part of the circuitry, in the far line of the city apparatus in Novi Sad, has been made up of recently employed by the IRS. They all go for better wages, all go for a better position. I think it would be correct if the tax administration had the same treatment as the National Bank, with, unlike the National Bank, the tax administration neither has its own buildings, and the vehicles driven by inspectors on the ground are catastrophic, etc. What's really worrying, I don't have anything against them, everyone should have good salaries, but employees of City Traffic and Cleanliness have bigger salaries than tax inspectors who need to control taxpayers on the ground who have large turnovers, or taxpayers who are very strong, are completely inappropriate to be controlled by people who have 40,000 salaries. You can imagine what kind of control that is. You yourself mentioned the other day that you should raise the position of these employees. What the LDP sees as a problem is that I still see one indifference in the approach to the drafting of this law, which is indicated by Article 29. I hope you agree that either the government or the board of directors, while this law is still here in our assembly, will have to intervene. Article 29 states: "This law will apply from 1 January 2009, except for Article 24 in the part relating to the termination of the employment relationship on the basis of the evaluable tax officer, which will be applied after the evaluation carried out for 2009 and 2010, and in the part relating to the rights of tax officials on official uniforms, working clothes and footwear, which will apply from 1 January 2011. "This means that the law is already getting a retroactive fact, the reasons for this are not foreseen in the bill itself. Also, in your explanation, you said that the process of European integration, as a strategic goal of the Republic of Serbia, depends largely on the work of the state administration, as the holder of the executive authority. It seems to me that if our European integration is based solely on improving this part of the state apparatus, none of these European integrations will be. We didn't see what the optimal number of employees in the IRS was. We have the information we received that in early 2005 8,109 employees were employed, and at the end of 2007, that number was 6,549. Interestingly, in those 1.560 employees who stopped working at the tax administration at the time, based on the systematization that was carried out, 45% were employed with high professional equipment, 23% with higher and 32% with secondary school supplies. In the LDP, we are interested in this data, I believe the other MPs, what is the optimal number in the tax administration? What I'm interested in, I'd like to hear when I'm talking about this part – what are the obligations of the biggest business entities to the state, or public enterprises? What are these obligations? Today we heard, we also have on the Finance Committee a topic that will be very interesting, when it comes to blockades, etc., so I'm interested in hearing - what are the obligations of these major business entities to the state, because citizens, and I believe other taxpayers who belong to small and medium-sized enterprises, entrepreneurs, etc., are aware of one thing, which is that the law does not apply to all. The problem is that some are protected, in one way or another. I'm not saying it's coming from you, but there's a system that can make it all right. There are a lot of questions we can run here. It's nice and commendable, creating conditions to strengthen the capacity of the tax administration itself, but we don't know the answers to any significant questions. The answers to some of your questions, Minister, we've been getting from the media, although you've been in the Assembly a lot the past few months, we've been learning some things from the media. I don't think that's correct. I will take this opportunity to ask you, if not a problem, to look up to your colleague from the government, Mrs Malovic, who shared much more information with the MPs themselves in the Assembly Hall, and much less than that we learned from the media. The other day in Kopalnik you stated that it is possible to secure budget revenues in several ways through tax increases, as well as an increase in rents and fees for using raw oil sources and increasing tax discipline, i.e. better and more effective collection of already existing... And gas, of course. It wasn't my intention to leave out the gas, of course. ) I ask the Minister to tell us, during this debate, why only now did you remember that you could raise a mine rent that is 3% in Serbia? Why does this government, like that previous government, which is apparently a role model of the Russian government, not look up to it? I'd like you to say, we're going to raise an ore rent, but you know it's impossible, since we signed with the Russians an oil-gas deal, which says you can't raise a mine rent! It would be good for Serbian citizens to know why they are deprived of higher sources of revenue from oil extraction and other natural wealth from Serbia in this way, because the rent is only 3%. You say you're not sure, you didn't hear that we suggested it. In this assembly and in conversation with Prime Minister Cvetkovic, we have repeatedly mentioned, we have made a programme, an agreement for the future in which we have cited as one of the important items, to raise the mining rent, before the agreement is voted in this assembly. We also submitted to the Constitutional Court an initiative for the assessment of constitutionality, among other things, and for this sort of thing. I'm also interested in whether we can rely on any information you give, not just you as the Ministry of Finance, but also the Ministry of Finance? There are really diametrically opposite data on the state of the budget and budget implementation for 2008 changes in methodology etc. They're being downloaded from the site for some information that's already been uploaded. The question is, can we take any information as accurate, healthy for granted, that's what you say? It would be much clearer to think that the situation is as it is, the cash register is empty and that any government projection over the past six months has been either wrong or that it's too late. Also, the easiest way to get away with the global economic crisis, and when we said we had to prepare ourselves for the global economic crisis, answers came from the government that it was a spread of panic, and you said in Kopalnik the other day that the global economic crisis had come faster to Serbia thanks to those who warned that it existed. You, Madam Minister, have told us here that the rate of economic growth in 2009 will be 3.5%. We said in the debate that followed when the budget was that it was completely unrealistic. At that time, we also note that we are talking about what is not true, and now it is certain that GDP will fall in 2009. What's important is knowing that we can't keep hiding behind the global economic crisis. A lot of things that are happening now, you had to predict that with more rebalancing, not the budget that we were bringing in December. The last thing I think is interesting, there are suggestions to shorten working hours and that's fine. It's just, who's gonna pay those costs? In other countries where the state in the previous period when it was strong, such as Slovenia that did so specifically, has provided funds from which it will be able to pay for that day that is not working, will the state here bear the costs or will all of this go to employers? What interests me when it comes to this week-on-week cut, is there a chance that the state, or government, will show us on its own case that costs can be reduced? Once again, he would refer to the tax administration in the context of the Law on the write-off of interest on dues, on the basis of certain taxes and contributions to compulsory social security, which we adopted here on 5 November 2008. Surely you know that tax administrations across Serbia have received a way in which they will be able to do so only on December 27th, four days before their interest is cut off. The second item that stands in that law, you can turn your head all you want, that's the fact on the ground, on March 31st, who pays those interest he received from the previous years, is written off 75%. Do you know that tax administrations have not yet gotten how they'll be able to do that? I repeat, today is March 10th. There are caravans passing by, indeed, by this government. We commend the exceptions to this law. We think they're late, but better late than never, above all, because of those six thousand employees in the IRS. This just needs to be the initial chapel for one quality system, to provide funds in the budget that will allow employees to have higher salaries in the tax administration, and in the ultimate line for setting up tax administrations as one body that will be completely independent, such as in some other countries, which will have the status that belongs to them, not that the director of the tax administrations themselves, directors of regional centres, directors in branches must be dependent on your assistant or specifically finance minister, not on you, but on the period behind us, where many things have happened on the party line. All of these are the preconditions to finally create a tax administration where the staff will be kept. Once again, I ask you to consider all the data relating to the tax administration, i.e. the number of employees, the outflow of employees and what is being prepared when local administrations take over all the tax collection jobs, which remain in local self-government, which is only then followed by the impact on the tax administration, there will be no one to collect taxes in this country and any such change will, in fact, be cosmetic. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-10-0.u14739	The word has been passed by MP Jorvanka Tabakovic, authorised representative of the Group of Representatives, Forward, Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-10-0.u14740	Dear colleagues, the President-in-Office, here is a theme that shows us very clearly what its priorities are. By focusing on this law and resolving the status issues of people in the tax administration, the state has made it clear to us that it is most important to raise funds for its operation. It is clear that there is no state without tax and it is clear that the state does not earn but spends, and there is no dispute there, but there is a dispute in that the state does not create first conditions to produce and deliberately say – that it is produced, rather than simply creating services, because these are past methodology and past stories, and besides virtual money, the real basis from which tax can be processed, and then the state and all those that the state finances. Why didn't the state here give us, or the Ministry of Finance, a pay priority, a way to start a working relationship, a deployment within the body, for example for the State Auditing Institution? No, the state isn't the most important control of spending money. It's important for her to fill her cash register. If the time precedes filling the cash register of spending control, what's the time first and what precedes everything is just production. That, I say reliably, is not taken care of enough, nor are solutions regular, nor are measures. What is the state asking us to do? To admit to her that she is the most important to herself, that she has the goal of filling a register in which they are not equal to the responsibility of her tax authorities with the rights we give them. They get much greater rights, they get and they want to get bigger benefits, but they don't have the same responsibility. Did the law, which they presented to us as a solution to the status issues of the tax administration staff, generally provide us with information on the results of the tax administration and the effects of the work, so that we could give our positive judgment on these legal solutions? If the state has admitted in December that there are 13.2 billion dinars of tax evasion, the leaders of the tax administration have recognised 13.2 billion, data on which the tax evasion is 70 billion dinars are published in February! What effects and merits of the tax administration are we talking about here, to stand before this home and seek greater wages, faster progress and better working conditions?- I'm sorry. If the law is bad, so it allowed tax evasion, who is responsible for such legal solutions? One and the same DOS government in different types of organization, but agreed on such solutions. If the tax administration has a problem operating in terms of abuse of authority, poor staff, decapitation as they say, etc., whose burden is again, but on the burden of a government that can't remember how much money doesn't get into the state register until it sees that the cash has come to the bottom. It boasted very seriously in the media and in the public of the state, i.e. its representatives, that the number of employees in 2005 in the tax administration has been reduced from 8,000 to 6 and 8 hundred employees. In 2009, in February, the state complains that there are not enough tax officials to collect taxes. Then why was it a success to fire people, and today we complain we don't have them? And anyone who works in a public enterprise or a state body will admit that we have one completely unrealistic and illogical promotion of voluntary departure and abandonment, the expansion of obligations received by administration authorities, public enterprises and local self-government, also, in this particular area of jurisdiction, and that there is no one to do the job. In 2005, the last available data to me, the tax rate management collected 80% of all revenue in the budget, that was its success. She spent on that job, 0.88 percent of that cake called the budget. How much does the IRS charge today? As much as the tax administration spends, I can only assume. What could be my guess and all my colleagues here if the proposal for a tax procedure and tax administration arrived on November 18th with one solution, and then on February 20th of this year, the government's amendments, which seem to be visual, are fundamentally changing this law. In less than three months, the government has completely changed access to what is called progress and the material position of employees. In this basic draft law, it was envisaged that the filling of jobs at an indefinite time in this body could be done according to the rules of public competition and the exceptional takeover from another state body, so that in these amendments, under the number one month, there would be a way – a permanent transfer. I tried to understand through the materials I had what the institute of permanent transfer meant, and I couldn't determine. There is a system of temporary transfer where someone can advance in the ministry beyond regular and regular procedures and be deployed to such more locations within 12 months. There's a new deadline of 12 months instead of six months and for working for a certain time, and there's a temporary transfer when someone can be moved to another place of work up to 50 kilometers from where they live, and in the same store as the same salary. There is also a temporary transfer where someone can be punished for poor performance and for the disciplinary procedure up to two years of transfer of such temporary, but I failed to determine what permanent transfer is within the meaning of this law. The average citizen can hardly understand these legal solutions. Many of the bodies to which these laws apply, lawyers who should professionally interpret these things, are also not able to interpret the provisions of this law, and what you boast about improving the material position of the tax administration, I interpret for experience, not by trusting you with the word and the law, but by the time the fox is called into the cave, and she says "I'm afraid of the tracks because they lead only to the cave and none from the cave". I have to give my suspicions that the system of temporary transfers and past the usual rules and procedures of progress, or punishment, serves to make, by discretionary law or moral political likeness, the kind of personnel that suit you. If that were possible, the example, I do not believe that the lonely, one of the discovered, that one of the chiefs of the tax administration in Vojvodina came without the necessary work experience to be the director, and then, dear citizens, the one who is in charge of carrying out, controlling, determining and charging taxes, buying a house, having a receipt, avoiding reporting to the tax authority so as not to pay taxes and only when it sells, it is known that the transaction had this indirect knee in which he was in charge of charging and controlling the state for tax damage. All those who are in a situation today to have some privileged information, privileged in the sense that they know how tax holes, tax surfaces can be misused, use it for the racket of states or rackets of those who can make money on it. And worst of all, those who represent the state are ahead of it. I'm not going to use the analogy of the arrested yesterday, 35 is 18 cops, no, they're just under investigation. But there are 18 officers out of 35 arrested. I claim that, seven or eight, and then the first person of the tax administration said – in 2005 was fired from the tax authorities due to abuse. How many have never been discovered? How many who have been complained against by countless people – in every political party, I am convinced, there are archives of those who complain of abuses by civil servants who are to enforce these laws and who could not come to law rather than heads? Not on behalf of those who do their job fairly, and we always have to separate it, but because of those who harm the state, the damage and the citizens at the same time, because we are all users of the state in some way, and we all have to take care of the revenues that the country needs to merge with. You must by this law ensure not only the right not to be asked in a second-degree procedure by the Supreme Court, but to do so by the tax authority inside, but to build mechanisms of responsibility for those who harm and disgrace the state. Madam Minister, go away from here, why in this law from the basic solution to the amendment, do you have your authority to prescribe what is incompatible with this activity of the tax officer proposing the director of the tax administration? In the first solution, it was your right. What can you do when a party-set director of the tax administration submits a request? You're not going to get in trouble with the coalition agreement, you're simply going to love peace, which we're all going to suffer, let the tax administration be one of those feudal possessions in which they're employed alike, in which, while there were tax statements, there were double books of tax statements filed and uninformed, so even today we have a case that the fiscal cash register is not a general rule and insults me as an MP if you tell me here that this solution was made in a law that requires us all to be equal. Yes, theoretically it sounds nice – practice shows something else. If that wasn't possible, you wouldn't have recognised 13.2 billion tax evasion, and others came to the investigation that it was a much larger figure. What you have to do as a state is – to promote a one-stop shop, where a PIB is obtained on one counter, you have to admit that you first have to cancel a hundred internal regulations, or instructions owned by the tax administration. What's called an internal instruction, 50 documents, out of 100, is about opening a tax identification number, meaning a third party, and they can't be read anywhere. And what I'm saying is it's published on a body site dealing with regulatory reform that requires that such internal acts, rules and instructions be abolished amongst the first ones, and this body, which we're talking about today, is out of 150 secret, and it's about us. In order for me to talk about this in this way, I claim to be a taxpayer who has never been late in his tax duties one day. I work in a company that, too, settles its tax obligations in a day and a couple, not sneering at it. I work in this home that is supported by the state. On behalf of all of us who pay taxes, you can't ask for funds here, and to say -- you won't ask the budget for funds to implement this law, but it will be provided from the tax administration itself, from its business. It's again from the same taxpayers, from what is dry drenov, and it's called production in this country, because you have no place to take, but from those same taxpayers who fill the budget. You can't say you need new people and new money, because eight years of employees are standing on two million figures. The number of employees does not increase, and as we are a business service for attracting foreign investment, when we have done so many reforms – we have destroyed the banking system, we can call it domestic as much as we want, and if you know what is domestic, it is only domestic interest that we pay, earning them here in this country. Everything else, and it is not just our experience, but all the countries in the environment that have listened to these advices – so they have passed. You have to take care of the tax sustainability, and you have to realize that today you've filled the register with new regulations, new people, new strictness, you know what it's going to mean - the race in the circle of those who need to tax evasion and survive and the states that are going to chase them to collect that tax? The law is not a good way and the Serbian Progressive Party, the Forward Parliamentary Club, will not vote for it. (At the time of Parliament's speech, Jorgovanka Tabakovic, MPs are banging on the bench. [[Applause]] )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-10-0.u14741	The speech is attended by MP Radojko Obradovic, an authorised representative of the DSS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-10-0.u14742	Thank you, Madam Vice-President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the law on amendments and amendments to the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration is on the agenda. We have carefully read the proposal and in a detailed explanation for the adoption of this law very clearly states what reasons these are. One of the key reasons is that the law needs to stop the process of further reducing the capacity of the tax administration, to carry out its human resources consolidation to a level that ensures the stability of public finances in the coming period and in the very text of the law it is elaborated in detail. Article 23 says that employees of the tax administration will be tax officials in the future. Article 24, or Article 169, defines the way in which jobs will be filled. Article 169j says work is defined for a certain time. Article 169z defines working hours, so it says it is possible to define work on shifts, work on Saturdays and Sundays, and to detail the elements that are important for the functioning of such an important state body. In the state administration of Serbia, and we hear that every day, there are 28,000 employees. In what way and by what law do you define the status of other officials who do not work in the IRS? Are these employees less important and do these authorities not do such important things, or will there be a bunch of other laws in front of us in the next weeks and months – where each of the ministers and elders of the state authorities will propose laws and highlight specificities? As far as we know, more or less, all state authorities have a similar problem, which is, that trained personnel leave, go to the private sector and it is very difficult to do important and responsible things. On the other hand, in this room, we have talked several times about the need to determine what is the optimal number of employees, because however any law arises, as is said in this law – that there are fewer employees in the tax administration than is necessary, that is, most of the laws that appear claim that there are fewer employees in these bodies than necessary. Also, on the other hand, we've pointed out here several times that the State Auditing Institution can't get the space, because all state rooms are busy with employees and they're said to build new buildings, so that these employees get more space. Another important thing that we noticed in the explanation is that the options discussed are how to solve this problem. It is very clear that this problem can only be solved by law. Since this is the matter of the law, then the law must be changed. I must commend the finance minister, who so emphasizes, in the light of the law, the need to comply unconditionally with the laws. What worries me is, why do other ministers not respect the laws? I feel the need to protect the finance minister from other ministers, such as Deputy Prime Minister Bozidar Djelic. Bozidar Djelic suggested a co-ordination meeting would be held on Friday to establish a platform for negotiations with the IMF. I don't know if Mr Djelic knows, but the government adopted a Memorandum of Economic Fiscal Policy, and on the other hand, the Serbian Parliament adopted the 2009 Budget. All economic policy elements are contained in these two acts. Therefore, it cannot be negotiated – will the law be respected. If it is said that the gross social product will be 3.5%, that the deficit will be 1.5%, that the drop in exports will be about 5%, that the drop in imports will be about 5%, then it is an official state act. We are told that this is the economic policy that has been established, that there is no need to open a new debate in the Assembly on economic policy, that it is enough to discuss this through parliamentary issues, with representatives of the government. Therefore, I see no reason to make co-ordination meetings, if there is no revision of this policy, and if there is, then it is done in another way, just as the minister proposes in this law – the government corrects the Memorandum, the budget comes to the Assembly, or rebalancing, with some new projections and then has the power of the law. Everything else is a direct violation of the law. (Article 16, that's right, yes, in the hall they say it is – absolutely in the National Assembly there can't be any other stories. ) Article 16. The law on the budgetary system defines exactly what the Memorandum of Budget says – medium-term macroeconomic and fiscal projections, review of economic and fiscal policy, recommendations on the budgetary strategy, very clearly defined and no room for any arbitrary interpretations is left. What we have here is a problem when the Rules of Procedure is passed, so we can't interpret it, because there are millions of interpretations, the Budgetary System Act is defined in a very clear way. Therefore, if there are problems, then it is defined either by the government correcting the Memorandum or by the Assembly adopting new projections through budget rebalancing. Therefore, the National Assembly must unanimously stand in the defence of the finance minister and protect it from arbitrary statements and arbitrary action by its government counterparts. Instead of the debate in the Assembly, we had a debate a few days ago in Kopalnik. Instead of hearing what projections are and what visions, since we couldn't hear them here, we heard a few new ideas. There are only three or four of them, as far as I've managed from the means of information to inform myself: One idea is compensation. If memory serves me well, it has already been seen in Serbia. Another idea is turning debt into state property. Again, if memory serves me well, we've seen it before. The third and most important idea is borrowing. That's what we've seen so well in this country, so we've had a headache after 20 years and it still hurts. The problem of debt, if you look at the structure and the reasons for some of our problems in 2009, is that private companies were in debt abroad. The government debt isn't big, but the debt of the economy is big. That economy can't do that. When the economy can't do it anymore, then we all have a problem together. Is that going to be a solution if we've already seen all these recipes, it's quite clear. The Assembly opens the possibility of discussing the effects of the crisis and measures, but sooner or later it will have to be discussed here. If nothing else, they'll have to go through budget rebalances. We'll all get a lot less headache if that's before. Obviously it'll be later, and then, in years ahead of us, we'll all be crying together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-10-0.u14743	I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, they are in conformity with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, until the opening of the principled search, the application for a word, in writing, with a number of MPs, submitted parliamentary groups: the SPS – JS, Forward, Serbia and the SRS. We move to part of the debate, and by order of the MPs, according to reports for the word in the principled search. The first registered speaker is MP Djordje Milicevic, and after that, MP Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-10-0.u14744	The Honorable Madam President-in-Office, the Honorable Minister, Mrs Dragutinovic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax Procedure and Tax Administration, the SPS Group – the JS is considered extremely important, because this legislative proposal, in fact, wants to achieve one transparency of the organisation, i.e. complete human consolidation, in order to effectively execute tax collection and ensure the stability of public finances. Therefore, the most important changes proposed by this law are: the clarification of the jurisdiction of the units of local self-government; then, as the tax payer's right, the right to re-write, as is stated here; then, the proposal is that the taxpayer can't file an amended tax application after the initiation of the tax control procedure for the controlled period; on oral public competition, on which the sale of mobile items whose individual value is more than 200 thousand dinars, only persons who place a deposit of 10% estimated value of mobile property can participate. The tax procedure introduces, inter alia, the absolute limitation period of 10 years, the provision of a residence certificate form from the double taxation avoidance contract. Next, changes have been proposed to regulate the working-legislative relationship of employees and infringement sanctions have been specified. It seems to us that the general assessment is that the current staff potential, first of all, will not be able to carry out a quality and adequate basic task, which is to determine, control and collect public revenues. Tax bonds are the largest number of Serbian citizens, and implies, according to each taxpayer, the procedure must be conducted with respect to the principle of legality and equality, which requires highly professional tax operatives, fully committed to the work they do, with adequate motivation. This is why, among other things, the biggest area in this legislative proposal and dedicated to the staff, i.e. the way in which the enforcement posts are filled in in the tax administration, the calling of these personnel, the conditions to be met, the conditions that must be met in the work, the rewards, as well as the contributions to the basic salary and salary fees. In order to fulfil the basic functions of the state, as well as for one stable conduct of a single state's macroeconomic policy, it is necessary to ensure through the tax administration effective collection of tax revenues and charges, I would say in continuity, through a clear and simplified procedure, which makes this bill more difficult. This, in fact, also achieves a kind of justice that all regularly settle their tax obligations. The proposal to supplement the law also regulates the way in which the private entity's privatisation tax-based obligation is laid down, if the amount of the private entity's obligation is above the purchase price reached. It is also necessary to strengthen the tax administration, due to the volume of work that will appear in the realisation of the restitution process and the return of property to former owners. As mentioned at the outset, this proposal to sell moving things is regulated so that only persons who place a 10% deposit can participate in oral public competitions, which sell mobile items whose individual value is more than 200,000 dinars. In the event that the buyer has not paid the amount for which the mobility was sold, the sale is advertised invalid, the buyer loses the right to return the deposit and cannot be the bidder in the next sale process. This change and this newspaper certainly aims to make the mandatory collection process far more effective. As has already been said, the amendments to this tax code introduces an absolute limitation period of 10 years, and also provides for infringements which will punish the taxpayer, legal person or entrepreneur who does not file a tax application prescribed by the tax law for a fine of 15-20 % of the tax amount established by the tax administration. Moreover, in the light of this proposal, it states that it foresees that the right to re-write and return of taxes have the same limitation period, so that taxpayers do not abuse different limitation periods, provided that the repayment period expires, the taxpayer submits a request for re-writement. Finally, I would like to say once again that the SPS-JS Group in the voting day will support the draft law amending and supplementing the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-10-0.u14745	The People's MP Veroljub Arsic has the word, followed by MP Dejan Radenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-10-0.u14746	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have an opportunity to discuss the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, but before I move on to the very comments of the law, I would draw the attention of the Minister to the fact that he did not behave the way he treated the MPs when we set up and had someone so-called. The right to ask questions.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-10-0.u14747	Excuse me, People's MPs, I ask the People's MPs who interfere with the speaker by hitting objects or parts of the body about the inventory of the National Assembly, to stop with impertinent and unworthy behavior in the Hall of the National Assembly. I give a warning to all the MPs who commit this violation and violation of the Article. 103 and 104. I warn you, under article 106, I will be forced to give you warning measures. Here you are, People's Messenger, and I'm sorry for the interruption. (The People's MPs of the SRS are banging on the benches. I don’t know if the warning was clear enough and whether the MPs who misbehaved and misbehaved were in violation of the article. The 103rd and 104th, did you hear the warning I gave? It is not allowed to pound on the inventory and is not allowed to interfere with the speaker while presenting during the session of the National Assembly, except that it is a disrespect for all other MPs, which is the basis for a warning. Please don't do this.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-10-0.u14748	Especially not the way the question is asked why the domestic banks are closed... (The People's MPs of the SRS are banging on the benches. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-10-0.u14749	Excuse me, MP. I express my warning: Parliamentarian Milan Veselinović, MP Dragan Zivkov, MP Milan Škrbić, MP of the people, Jadranka Vukovic, MP of the people, Radisa Ilic, MP of the people Slobodan Vukovic, MP Vladan Jeremic, MP of the people Milan Avramović, MP of the people Dobroslav Prelic, MP of the people Bojan Mladenov... During the speech of the chairman, the MPs of the SRS applaud. )......................................................................................................... On behalf of the People's MP Sulajman Spah, National MP Miodrag Krstin, National MP Vlada Milojkovic, National MP Dusan Maric, National MP Zoran Popovic, National MP Dusanka Plecevic, National MP Radica Jocic, National MP Gordana Paunović-Milosavljevic, National MP Dragan Stevanović, National MP Lidija Dimitrijevic, National MP Ljubisa Petkovic, National MP Momir Markovic, National MP Dragan Todorovic, President of the SRS Group, as he has already received two remarks, I take away the words during this session. It is quite obvious that you wanted this punishment and the applause of support that you are giving me to give a warning measure per article 106 shows that during the violation of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly you are essentially dealing with a business that is unworthy, unworthy, and arrogant behavior, not allowed for any session of the National Assembly. I suppose the greatest relief for MP Dragan Todorovic is having his word taken from him. Thank you. Here you go, MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-10-0.u14750	Especially not the way you did it in the sitting room, going out for this pay phone and wondering how we got the right to ask you that. (The People's MPs of the SRS are banging on the benches. ) Your argument was that the old, or domestic banks had to be shut down, or shut down because they owed funds for the old foreign savings...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-10-0.u14751	Excuse me, MP. To the People's Messenger Milan Škrbić and the People's Messenger, Suleiman Spaha, I give a second warning. People's MPs were given a second warning for the same reasons as... During the speech of the chairman, the MPs of the SRS applaud. )......................................................................................................... the statement of the first notice for infringement of the Article. 103th and 104th, with unworthy and unworthy conduct and withholding of all MPs at the meeting of the National Assembly, which is careful and binding to give notice, and in accordance with Article 106. Any further attempt to disable the application of the Rules of Procedure will be sanctioned by the statement of measures under Article 106. I thank you for the applause of support that shows that you are clearly in need of punishment measures, because you do not know how to, otherwise, not in breach of the Rules of Procedure, express your political views, which is to our mutual regret. Excuse me, MP, once again, please. People's MPs, members of the SRS Parliamentary Group, must decide whether you support your fellow members of the Progress Group, Serbia or try to interfere with them by hitting the inventory case. [[National MPs of the SRS applaud.]] In both cases, your conduct is inappropriate, unworthy, and represents a demeaning session of the National Assembly. Any kind of reasonable warning will not result in our common regret. Here you go, MP, keep going. (The People's MPs of the SRS are banging on the benches. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-10-0.u14752	... Especially not in that way, Madam Minister, to wonder where we are from the right to ask you such a question at all and claiming that the reason for closing domestic banks is old foreign exchange savings, that citizens no longer trust them, that they will no longer invest in them and that – if we did not close down our domestic banks would not be this much financial activity on the domestic market in the past few years. That's your word. You can check in the stenographic notes. The problem, however, is that you did not leave these domestic banks to work on the domestic market and to fight, even with your help, with foreign banks. Why is it important to see it now at a time of global economic crisis when many countries save their banks by either recapitalisation or buying them out. And when it comes to the old foreign savings, the banks are certainly not responsible for it, the state that had the money is responsible. We don't want to discuss this because the state has taken the obligation to pay back the old foreign savings. But since you're trying to argue with me about it, those who are responsible, and I don't want to go into the justification or inexcusability of such a procedure, I think it could have been better, it could've been worse, but you're keeping an eye on it, because these are now your coalition partners. As far as the law itself is concerned, Madam Minister, first of all, I would like to draw your attention to reviewing the work of the tax administration and the tax authorities of the tax administration when it comes to the taxpayer's subscription. Many legal entities, believe it or not, have a situation to show more tax paid in the final account, many of these companies do not want to refute more tax paid than to deny them the new obligations arising from their further business. That's not controversial. However, it is disputed when a final account is handed over that the obligation to pay tax advances does not stop until the final account is processed in electronic form, so we have a situation where the taxpayer has an obligation, even though he has paid more taxes, to pay the next three, four months, until this is in electronic form for you in the tax administration. It even counts for interest, and it can't even get confirmation, even though it has valid documentation, that he's paid more taxes than he owes. This is a serious problem, and this is also a colleague of MEP Jorvanka Tabakovic's said that the state is only taking care of how to collect the tax liability. This is seen in Article 94 of the Old Law, which is amended, which adds a new position, which says: "If the estimated value of movable things, or a third of the established initial value of immovableity is greater than the amount of the tax liability, the difference is returned to the taxpayer by procedure and in the manner prescribed by the minister. "Miss Minister, as tax obligations arise, he regulated the law. What are the deadlines for paying tax obligations regulates, too, the law. Why doesn't the law regulate even when it needs a taxpayer if you've taken his money on some basis to give the deadlines when that money will come back to him? The question is particularly sensitive when it comes to forced collection. Here again you can see the concern that the state only has a desire to collect taxes and not take care of taxpayers. It's not just the sale of movable assets, it says here less than a third of the immovable property. What if the taxpayer owes a relatively small amount of tax in relation to the value of the immovable property he owns? What if he lives in that real estate? Do you really believe that someone will risk losing the property he and his family live in for some small amount of tax they can't pay? You left the possibility that although living in a small apartment that works, for example, costs 40 or 50,000 euros, if it owes two or three thousand euros, so that the apartment is sold to him for 15 thousand and less, and thrown into the street to collect thousands or 2,000 euros. I think this law was supposed to be regulated differently. If the taxpayer lives in immovable property and his debt is less than a third of the estimated value of immovable property, such property cannot be sold to him. In Article 114a, we have a disagreement between Article 114a and the proposed Article 114h. 114a says that tax refuse deadlines and, on the other hand, by re-counting, therefore, more tax paid, on the one hand, on the tax card which has been paid less, on the other hand, can take place within three years, i.e. become obsolete within three years. However, the newly proposed Article 114z states: 'The right to determine, to charge, to return, to refute, and to settle the commitments made on another basis by re-write the tax, always goes out of date within 10 years of the end of the year in which the tax was to be determined, charged, or in which the re-payment was made. ''If the state already wants to take care of tax bonds, the deadlines and conditions should be exactly equal for payment, determination and refund of taxes, and not for it to be within a period that is smaller. That the objective is also to ensure that the state takes care of itself is seen in the old Article 128, which erases the last position and says, 'If, on the basis of the minutes, or the supplementary report on field control, there is no basis for changing the tax liability, the taxpayer shall be informed in writing within 30 days of the date of submission of the minutes, or the supplementary minutes. ''What you wrote would make sense, but only on condition that the component of the report found that he did not have a changed tax obligation. In law, however, tax inspectors do not have the obligation. That's why you should have put in law that the tax inspector has an obligation that unless there's a change in tax returns that he's making a record of it, and then you have a basis to erase the last attitude. Also surprising are the deadlines under which the second-degree authority has the right to respond to the complaint made by the taxpayer, so you increased it by ten days. The tax administration's business isn't just to take care of how they charge taxes, the tax administration's job is to protect taxpayers. As funny as those deadlines that you have extended, it is seen by the fact that the taxpayer's appeal does not delay the execution of the solution, so that you can do damage to the taxpayer because the tax administration is asking for a higher time limit to decide on his appeal, but will act on the solution given by the tax inspector. If you are already trying to play the Law of Salaries in the State Authorities in a certain way, and this is seen through Article 169p, which says: ''The Tax Officers in the Tax Administration have the right to a basic salary which consists of a base and which is determined by the Government, a basic and additional coefficient. The additional coefficient is determined in the range of 20% to 50% of the basic coefficient, depending on the calling, special working conditions, responsibilities, complexity of jobs, volume, weight and nature of work. ''So, on the one hand, the state wants to stimulate tax inspectors to do their job better, and on the other hand it gives them the right to delay in procedures in which the taxpayer can be damaged. Since this law is purely one form, some of my colleagues have come out for this pay phone and have argued that they will improve the conditions of the work of tax inspectors, at all tax officials, and that they will equate the rights of all to equally apply for the work of the tax administration, that this is not so seen but in Article 169a, in its 3rd position: 'Extremely, a job at an indefinite time in the Tax Administration, can be filled by taking over a state official from another state authority. ''And the previous stance says, ''A job on indefinite time in the IRS is being filled in, as a rule, through a public competition. '"Why by the book? Why is there no obligation to open a public competition? If there is an obligation to open a public competition, then why take over from another state body that has no obligation to call a public competition? So, we're moving employees from one state authority to another to avoid public competitions and fill a new place in the state body, again without competition. The whole proposal seems so eager to show how it works to reduce a huge state apparatus that can't, or people can't pay, in these times of crisis, but when it gets a little more into the law, it also shows that it leaves behind the possibility of abuse. Only employment in the tax administration is said – if it is through a public competition, interested persons are registered for competition, a commission is educated to determine who meets the conditions, who does not meet the conditions, if there are one or more candidates, is proposed to the director of the tax administration that he decides who he will receive in a working relationship. Say now that this contest without certain criteria, without drawing up a list, the obligation to be the first on the list to be employed if it meets the conditions etc. means, without all these criteria, one man based on familiarity, family membership, and I believe the parties will receive someone into the authority of the state administration. So much for this law. I would like to finally have this government come out with a clear agenda to get out of the global economic crisis, as we think we can save this country and a little more to talk about the loans that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has committed to both citizens and economic operators, to put things in place. Because when you get the money out of the dinar budget and you index into the euro and you put it on the capital market that companies and citizens are in debt, then it's kind of weird, unless you've taken some credit from some other side of the international institution and placed those funds. Now, there's a reasonable doubt that you want to cover the budget deficit through the cursive differences. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-10-0.u14753	The word has a folk letter from Lydia Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-10-0.u14754	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, today we have before us a bill on amendments and additions to the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, which would be more suited to the name only on the tax administration, because the proposal deals with the possibility of increasing the number of tax officials, as well as their earnings. The promoter wants to convince us that by increasing the number of tax officials, it will automatically ensure the stability of public finances, and that the pay system of the taxpayers in the tax administration will be a basic motivation factor that would stop the outflow of trained personnel with high professional training. Instead of the fact that this phenomenon relates to underdeveloped tax culture and insufficient tax discipline of taxpayers, it is necessary to look the truth into the eyes and to make a comparison between the income of tax administration employees and the astronomical earnings of individual directors of public enterprises and the compensation of board members. The amount of their fees and earnings has already been said, so this time I will not repeat those amounts. They're so tall, it's impossible not to irritate the public. Probably that employees in the tax administration at the responsible places think they belong to high profits, so since they can't make them there then they'd be where they can be. As far as underdeveloped tax culture and insufficient tax discipline are concerned, it is high time the roots changed there, because the losses resulting from this base are huge. The data suggests that only last year was the state damaged by more than 18 billion dinars, making it official by the tax police 1,836 applications. It's official data, and surely the truth is much more cruel, i.e. that the amount of money hidden is much higher, but it remains undiscovered because there is a lot of corruption in this area too. Besides, there's a lot of loose ends in the law. The criminal proceedings are ineffective, and the criminal policy of the treasure is ineffective. All this is why tax evasion in Serbia is growing. According to a report by many municipal prosecutors for the past year, more than 60% of the crimes in the economy have been committed. Over the past five years, some 7,300 reports have been filed by prosecutors showing that the state has been damaged by nearly 70 billion dinars. The tax crime structure is dominated by the evasion of value added tax and, on this basis, in the previous two years, the damage done to the state is 6.4 billion dinars. If this occurs, as the finance minister announced, the VAT rate is 2.5% higher than the current one could be expected to try to avoid paying taxes in various ways. In addition to this problem, due to the global economic crisis, it can be expected that the state will face a smaller number of taxpayers because we have daily layoffs of workers from work and closure of businesses. This way, the revenue side of the budget will record a decline. As early as the first two months of this year, the payment of revenue was about 10% to 15% actually less than the revenues projected by the budget. Some government members say Serbia has room for borrowing, regardless of the good part of economists stress that new borrowings are not a good solution. The government plans to ask the IMF for a $2 billion stand-by arrangement, and in addition to borrowing from foreign banks and the domestic capital market. Serbia lacks 500m euros to pay off this year's debts, which means it has no ability to pay even the existing ones, and that it will only be with the payment of new ones when it is known that next year will be difficult, probably harder than this one. I will briefly comment on what the Minister said, that this bill aims to achieve a better quality of work and that the tax administration is directed towards clients? That would be good if it were true. We can rarely see scenes on tax administration counters where private entrepreneurs ask for information when handing over tax returns are ignored and scrutinized by a tax worker. That's what you have to fight because that tax officer is getting paid precisely by the taxpayer's money who came to the counter and called for information. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-10-0.u14755	The word is made by MP Mico Rogovic, followed by MP Vladan Jeremic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-10-0.u14756	The Honorable Madam Chairman, Madam Ministers, fellow MPs, in a set of laws at the First Regular Session of this year's National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, along with all other laws that are united in the debate, even laws that are not mentioned in the urgency of the procedure, are also the tax procedure law and the tax administration. This is one of the few laws in the set of this law that we are discussing these days in March, probably during the current month, the same law will be adopted with, hopefully, all the smart arguments that are for and against certain provisions of this law, but there is also retroactive force, i.e. its application will start from 1 January of the current year. The Serbian Progressive Party and the Prosperity Group Go ahead, Serbia does not want to reduce the importance of the tax administration with its arguments. We clearly want to make our views clear, as well as our colleagues from all other parliamentary groups, our position on this subject. Our opinion that the necessity of passing such a law, as you have stated, has come to an understanding, as well as the arguments that we make behind the speaker and through the amendments, I hope that they will come upon your understanding, Madam Minister. In addition to the provisions relating to the tax procedure, provisions relating to the tax administration clearly indicate that during this current 2009 period, the tax administration will receive an army of 3,000 officials and newly admitted officials, because you are in the arguments for the adoption of amendments to the existing Law, which also stated that during the previous year, in 2008, over 2,000 people left the tax administration. The situation is evident in the largest cities, the type of Belgrade and other major cities, while the case is not in smaller areas. In smaller areas, tax administrations are almost 100% filled, but the pressure and burden on the backs of taxpayers in smaller areas and much higher than in larger cities. Madam Minister, you are probably familiar with the fact that part of those people, the tax administration inspector, as well as many other inspection services unrelated to the tax administration, leaving their jobs from the mentioned environments, in a free conversation for arguments state the part and the dangers of their existence and the existence of their families, i.e. For a salary of, say, 40,000, in the very difficult and critical situations that the provisions of this law prescribe, relating to the determination, control and collection of tax revenues, they do not want to put their families and their own personal existence on some symbolic salary, say, of 40,000. A particularly rigorous system of evaluation of values and personal incomes, not to mention the basic coefficient which is for me, as MPs, personally and unknowns, and this bonus in terms of the additional coefficient that you indicate these amendments and additions to the law, especially the depletion from the part of the mid-professional staff and more professional arrangements than some year ago, when large cuts were made, i.e. differences in the personal incomes of employees in these services, so that people with the lowest professional training who have been employed in the administration for years, i.e. The tax administration has come into the situation that with the envisaged laws, i.e. the coefficients and the basis for their personal incomes, they cannot provide a part of their family's existence in the smallest environment. Perhaps, Madam Minister, you are familiar with the situation that, especially in large cities, fiscalization is not controlled and implemented to the extent permitted by the law, or prescribed. In certain cities in the Republic of Serbia, fiscal cash registers are still not for decorations. You probably know, given the control of raising funds from incomes like this, that there are such cities in Serbia, and that at the expense of peace in the house, fiscal cash registers as instruments for implementing fiscal policy, in some areas there are still thought nouns. And with an army of such apparatus, not involving in the legal provisions of all existing laws and of this law, therefore, not alluding to it, the people and taxpayers in the smaller environments do have daily, on their backs, various inspection services and controls, and they are likely to be guilty of what I said in the previous position, i.e. the fact that fiscal policy in all parts of Serbia is neither implemented, nor determined, nor controlled, and probably not charged in the same way. You specify this as the current problem of decapitating the tax administration, i.e. lack of personnel in this area. What's particularly problematic about this law is that this law continues to predict nothing, nor does it. It is predicted only in one member, but nothing really is done in the education of taxpayers, especially in this situation. When I say this, it's mostly about the army of small companies, so-called. independent actions, catering activities, which are unique in conditions, i.e. major economic crises in the emerging period, are literally forced to be workers and directors and literally do not have time to get to know a set of different laws that enter into the procedure and that go into "official messengers" after their adoption, so they are not able to get to know all the provisions that apply to them. The education of taxpayers and this law does not provide for anything spectacular, in particular 50 normative acts, which exist in the context of the tax service for officials, and the inability to know about them from the strict taxpayers, particularly burdens and obligations on taxpayers in terms of control. Only once did you provide for the provision of this article that tax control could be established in the apartment of a natural, or legal person, entity, or taxpayer. There is no reason for that, in addition to all possible office spaces and possible inability to do so in the premises of a controlled person, I think that a better solution would be the offices of the tax administration, not the dwellings of taxpayers, who are not here at any time in conflict with the law, nor have they had a criminal act, but it's just a process of control. I can't look back on the law on money laundering and the prevention of terrorist financing. This law provides that accounting agencies, besides lawyers, deal with intelligence, spy services, call whatever you want, so taxpayers are really in a difficult situation. In doing so, in the sea of inspectors and all the services that, in the hierarchy of control, determination and collection, stand above them and all associates, start with accounting agencies with whom they co-operate and lawyers who can possibly represent them, have a problem because they can run into misunderstandings in that chain. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-10-0.u14757	People's MP, time at your envoy's disposal has been used. Thank you. The People's MP Vladan Jeremic has the word, followed by MP Bojan Mladenovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-10-0.u14758	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected Serbian citizens, the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, which is now the subject of a parliamentary debate, is merely a confirmation of the findings of the SRS MPs, that bad legal solutions cannot be corrected by ad hoc, alterations or additions, but only by some essential reform of the whole, in this case, tax policy. As the most important reason for amending the Law, the government of the Republic of Serbia has cited a halt to the process of draining personnel in the tax administration and its consolidation to a level that ensures the stability of public finances in the coming period, as well as a precision of provisions whose direct application requires interpretations and thus slows down and makes the tax procedure more inefficient. Among other things, they specify and clarify the competences of local self-government units. The right of the taxpayer is also prescribed by the right to re-write. The fact is that the tax payer amended the tax application cannot file after the initiation of the tax control procedure for the controlled period, then, that the tax procedure introduces an absolute limitation period of 10 years, the amendments governing the working-law relationship of the taxpayers in the tax administration were proposed. Finally, if I am not mistaken, it is Article 177, that certain criminal sanctions have been specified. I would like to point out in the principle debate that the tax administration faces the challenges of modern times, so it is absolutely necessary to adapt it to the process of globalisation of the economy, which is characterized by the difficulties of taxing certain sectors, as well as sophisticated computer technology. Realisation of the tax system reform should be on a longer term, and it is also a focus on improving the efficiency of the work already mentioned by the tax administration. Some leading principles should certainly include simplifying the tax procedure, reducing the complexity in the application of tax rules, strengthening the level of compliance with taxpayers' obligations and establishing differentiated treatment of taxpayers, taking into account their natural potential. It is evident that there is a mutual feedback between tax policy and tax administration. Practically, if tax laws as an expression of a certain tax policy are complex to administer the effects of this policy, they certainly cannot be satisfactory. Therefore, even when creating a certain tax policy, certain administrative restrictions must be taken into account. It is very important to identify specific bottlenecks and interferences that reduce the efficiency of the work of the tax administration. The priority task in the work of the tax administration is certainly to ensure that all prescribed tax revenues are charged, which is also the most important indicator in the work of the tax administration. Such a modern, modern tax administration is expected, however, to deal with studying the results of its work, developing methods of control and improving labour economy. In this respect, it is very important that the improvement of the labour process and the active use of data be a permanent data and some basic principle in the tax administration management process. This trained staff is a very important factor for the consistent application of tax rules in practice, because if the administration is ineffective, and I say it is, and a much more quality law can be passed, but it will not be applied or misapplicated and made small revenues. The functioning of the legislation will not be possible without adequate technical equipment and improvement of the method of operation of the tax administration, and in particular its control bodies. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Madam Minister, the first quarter of 2009 for tax collectors and the Serbian budget is the biggest test, following the government's decision to unilaterally apply the agreement with the EU, budget revenues have been reduced, and one of the worst solutions, in which way to replace the deficit of a few-tenths of a billion dinars based on the payment of customs duties, is what is now shyly moving through the public, and that is, therefore, the increase in VAT rates from 18 to 20 per cent, most likely. This would practically mean that those promises that we received from the governor of the NBS about leading an anti-inflation policy, counting that the price increase will not be more than 8%, practically in the beginning will be reduced by at least a quarter. When all of this is added to the information that fellow MPs made, that more than 1,700 applications have been filed over the past year for tax evasion of more than 13 billion dinars, and that almost half of all these taxes or 49.04% have been taxed and profit contributions are immediately thereafter VAT of 43.23%, it is clear what problem this country is in. Essentially and one of the main problems, therefore, is that none of the legal solutions in this area has contributed to such criminogenics being eradicated. Such a bill will remain only a dead letter on paper unless it is ensured that the tax system is in a position to achieve economic and social objectives. Tax principles should represent orientations that satisfy the system in general, not every single tax. Two aspects must be taken into account: socio-political and legal-administrative principles. It is important that taxes are adjusted as quickly and fully as possible to the level of public expenditure, but only if they are in line with the economic opportunities of the country. The problem is, Madam Minister, that in Serbia there is no flexibility of the tax system, because it is unable to respond to changed economic circumstances. After all, as economists, it is clear to you that for the sake of the stability of the tax system, it is unacceptable to change tax regulations, since in this case instability is introduced in business conditions, planning is made difficult, etc. What is necessary is to minimise administrative costs, which means that the costs of determining, charging and tax controls must be lower. This is then the economics of the tax, because if administrative costs are higher than income, such a tax should simply be abolished. To conclude, tax policy also affects economic and social flows. I have the impression that the government in Serbia is not aware of this either, nor of the huge changes that occur through the impact of the financial and economic global crisis. Expensive money and difficult exports have not even spoken about any economic growth during 2009. Taking into account that the course could change significantly, this would also mean a significant additional drop in GDP and income in Serbia. As income falls, it is increasingly difficult to raise funds for public finances as well. In Europe, there is a rule that the decline in the growth rate by one percentage point draws a decline in public finances by 1.2 per cent to 2 per cent. So, if growth by about 6%, as it stood in 2008, falls in 2009 and the fall of these public finances could range from 7.2 to 12 percentage points. If there is no reduction in public spending, it is clear that the budget deficit will escalate, and in the face of all these indicators, we are also facing statements from ministers that the crisis is our chance, and our chance, ladies and gentlemen, is Members of the People's Parliament, Mrs. Minister, thinking and on the subject of the return of the Kanes system, instead of this market fundamentalism, because for a country like Serbia, there seems to be no better quality solution. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-10-0.u14759	Thank you, Mr. Jeremiah. The word has a vice president, Miss Natasa Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-10-0.u14760	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, at the end of last year, when we talked about the budget and the changes and the addition of a set of laws in the area of finance, I would say that I should not be pretentious, one of the most light examples in Serbia of the tax administration in Arandelovac, led by Mr Ljubomir Mladenovic and turned out to be right. Because several days after that debate in the Assembly, in the large hall of "Sava" the Centre was held a kind of seminar, where Mr. Mladenovic spoke about the experience of the tax administration of the municipality of Arandelovac and was unequivocally confirmed by all colleagues, including from your ministry, that it was the authority of the tax administration that was established in accordance with the law and which showed the highest possible and highest degree of efficiency, recording the tax on property, or tripled it compared to the year before, before the establishment of that tax authority in the municipality of Arangelovac. Now I fully understand all of this, of course, that they said that Mr. Stevanovic and other fellow Serbian radicals such as all technical, above all, and personnel problems, so human resources are facing, conditionally speaking, smaller municipalities in Serbia, because they have not received adequate assistance from the government, or the Ministry. When we talk, let's say, about these ongoing competitions, I know specifically about the Prepolje municipality, when it comes to the work of those who need to be employed in the tax administration's authority, that it's a great deal of interest. But these people don't know at all how the state will treat them later, and again I return to what Dragan Stevanovic said, our authorised representative, and especially if it is young and professional people, do they see themselves there and what a guarantee it is that the state will further promote them in their completion, and that some next change and addition of this law will put them on ice, as we now have the case of many people who, in the former period, with a lot of enthusiasm, have completed certain schools and specializations going to certain places with state institutions, and that the state is now showing care and irresponsibility. In order not to use more time, since there are a lot of registered colleagues from our parliamentary group who will talk about examples from their midst, and there are probably more of these, such as the forest municipality of Arandelovac, I have to ask you a question, Madam Minister, given these problems which, for example, Surdulica, Vladicin Han, Raca Kragujevaca or any of the municipalities in central or southern Serbia, and also in Vojvodina, how in this process of establishing local tax authorities to meet the municipalities of KIM?- I'm sorry. Because if we're witnessing that for eight days, the village of Šilovo, near Gjilan, Prilužje, Plemetina and the others that you were able to see in one annex on state television, has run out of electricity, what do these people expect to do tomorrow, from the technical and any other of the Ministry or the Government, to carry out the tax procedure and in this worst and most difficult situation, where is the complete occupation of our territory?- I'm sorry. They should also come to collect property tax from a man who knows he's risking his way out of the field, not to mention the village of Klokot, and that drastic case from four years ago, when a woman came out of her field and was killed by a land mine, and then a local of the same village in the municipality of Novo Brdo, too, because of the fact that they had been attacked by the Cypriot separatists. First of all, I want those brave mothers, the Serbians from Shiloh to give every confession they've ever faced as women and as mothers and as decent Serbian women who fight for the rights of their people in KIM have shown exceptional courage. For days they were all on the road leading to Bujanovac, they put and laid down their lives, they opposed this so-called. to protect, in fact, the occupation forces at KIM, because they know they have nothing to lose. Their lives are on their hearths. That is why all of you, MPs from the ruling parties, should show more hearing, primarily the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I can't expect that from you, because as one colleague said this morning, yesterday the President of the Republic of Spain said a type sentence, which is that we will never get back together with that fact, or that KIM will remain part of Serbia, which is part of his oath. What you're doing is, in fact, really happening and helping our countrymen. Once again, all congratulations to our sisters, Serbs from Shilova and other places I mentioned. Let them fight, we Serbian worked alongside them, Kosovo is indeed the heart of Serbia, and for us it will always be so for every Serbian patriot! Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-10-0.u14761	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Mr. Bojan Mladenovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-10-0.u14762	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, citizens of Serbia, I will read to you Article 24, of this law, which states that the taxpayer, in accordance with this law, has the right to, under one, receive free information from the tax administration about the tax regulations resulting from his tax liability, and if he is ignorant and basic legal aid, which allows him to report and pay taxes and bills and pay for the secondary tax dues in accordance with the regulations. In the IRS, you're often busy, you're constantly in line, who's going to give you information? You've been waiting hours to get some information, and the question is, will you wait until you get the information? Who's gonna give you basic legal aid? You'll have a hard time getting it. Even if you get it, the question is whether it'll be that day or in a few days or a few weeks. The law and this member of this law are good, but it is not applied in practice. There is something very different about us in Serbia, and information is difficult to obtain, and legal assistance is even more difficult, it is almost impossible to obtain from the tax administration. As for further taxes, I would mention that private entrepreneurs in Serbia who regularly pay taxes at the end of the year get a solution for retroactive pay, i.e. we have privates who pay taxes, let's say, 10,000 a month and so throughout the year, and then finally they get a solution on which they were obliged to pay not 10, but, say, 13, 14, or 15 thousand dinars. Then they are asked to pay that difference later for all months. On the other hand, we have taxpayers who do not pay or settle their obligations on a regular basis, and at the end of the year or the next they will be able to pay taxes with a write-off of interest, with a reduction in debt, allowing them to pay in payments on a market basis, give what you give. Ladies and gentlemen, the state has never stimulated, unfortunately, the regular payment of taxes, which should finally be done, to tax bonds that regularly settle their obligations to some relief, in a way to reward them, to stimulate them, and not punish them, as today the state does with this extra charge. The municipalities and the state can't function without paying taxes. It's extremely important where the taxpayers' money goes. I'll only give you two examples of what happened on the Vozdovac municipality. Namely, there was a construction of a fountain in the village of Brace Jerkovic, which has been in place for 10 to 15 years, which has been abandoned. By reconstructing it and setting up a few new benches, by setting up two reflectors, etc., 6844,000 dinars, nearly seven million dinars for the reconstruction of a fountain in the village of Jerkovic. The same similar dimensions, similar capacity, were made entirely new in Bor, which cost 1.8 million dinars, four times less. Look, it's the same fountain, and the amount is different, up to five million dinars. The head of the parliamentary group in Voždovac municipality, Jovan Milovanovic, asked for a specification of all these works and costs, however, the government did not deliver it to him, explaining that after the introduction of a forced administration that took place these days on the Voždovac municipality, it would not be obliged to deliver it to him, thus trying to hide their thief. We, the citizens of the Voždovac municipality, are left with nothing but to wonder where those money ended and in whose pockets. Also, on the Voždovac municipality, construction of another fountain in Banjaca was planned, but now at a far greater amount of as much as 35 million dinars. The choice of location is first catastrophic, on the turn of the tram. What's that feel like, what's it like to look at a fountain, and your head is surrounded by trams? First, the safety of children and all others who would come to that fountain, cross the railroad, and the rest is questionable. Not far from there, about a mile away, on the turn of the trolleybus, there is literally one lake full of feces created by the sewerage from the town of Jajinci and other houses in Banjaca. Literally all the wastewater flows into that place. Couldn't the heads of the Vozdovac municipality have arranged this place, so if they want to build a fountain, do it in that place? Let them do that area, and then we'll have a double benefit, not build it on the tram turn, as they predicted, where the green area is now. The green area is being destroyed to place a stone and build a fountain. We, the committees of Vozdovac, have suggested that these funds be shifted to more priority matters, to build kindergartens and mangers in Banjaca. There are currently kindergartens and mangers, but insufficient capacity. I have to say, for the sake of the public, that from the surrounding settlements, first of all the Pubal Villages, parents bring their children to Banjic because they have neither kindergarten nor manger in their places. At a place where kindergartens and mangers already exist, we have suggested, since there is room, that another building be built with these moneys that are designed to build a 35 million dinar fountain, which can absolutely provide children with a safe building with all the necessary standards. What's still interesting is what the municipal government did. She received 35 million dinars to build this fountain, reportedly since the city in 2007, and they deposited the funds. At the time, it was 437 thousand euros. The funds stand for two years, not used. Now that amount is about 365 thousand euros, 72 thousand euros is gone. Simply, by course, the municipalities lost 72,000 euros because the money stands deposited. When we asked for those funds to be rerouted they said – we can't, the City intended for it. We asked – let us make a letter to the City that this decision should be reconsidered and the funds shifted. They refused our proposal. What happens next? In the 2009 budget, the Vozdovac municipality now represents 30 million dinars for the construction of the fountain, and five million dinars are gone. To our persistent questions about where this money is, what about these five million dinars, we finally got the answer – that these funds were spent on idea solutions, on projects and architects who worked on the construction of the fountain. Watch out, five million dinars, it's about 150 average salaries in Serbia, which took two or three people. For what? It's like an idea solution, and the question is whether or not the fountain will be built. So 72,000 euros were lost in the difference in course, plus 52,000 lost, given to these solutions, or 124,000 euros in the Vozdovac municipality, for the construction of the fountain, and they haven't even started working yet. The municipality of Voždovac, unfortunately, apart from this kind of spending, is known to have crashed about a hundred objects on the Blue Bridge site in 2003, where more than 500 people were out of work, left on the street, without any need – because of an idiotic and completely unnecessary decision by the municipal council. The municipality is also known for two years for protesting in Duke Stepe Street for building a megamarket "Vero" and what the problem cannot solve. He does not want to stand in the defence of citizens, but protects the interests of individuals and enables them to get rich quickly and enormously, which is why the construction mafia is also the most developed on Vozdovac. After all these and similar events, municipality president Vozdovac Goran Lukacevic of the DS resigned on December 27th last year and announced it on January 23rd this year. For almost a month he kept quiet and falsely represented himself and deceived the entire public, he continued to represent himself as the president of the municipality. Why he kept quiet for a month about the resignations he never gave an explanation for. I hope that after these elections at Vozdovac, which will be in the next period, there will be more honest and responsible people who will protect the interests of the citizens of Voždovac, and every dinar of the taxpayers will rationally distribute and focus on the most necessary and necessary things. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-10-0.u14763	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Mr Milan Škrbić.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-10-0.u14764	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, the respected citizens of Serbia, today we are talking about amendments to the Tax Procedure and Tax Administration Act, and we can and must conclude, we agree that the most important amendments proposed by this law are amendments to Article 2a, paragraph 2 of point 6 of the Law, in order to clarify the competence of the units of local self-government. Then, as the right of the taxpayer to amend Article 10, i.e. to amend Article 40 – that the taxpayer exchanges the tax application and cannot submit after the initiation of the tax control procedure, for a controlled period. Then, the tax procedure introduces an absolute limitation period of 10 years. It also provides for the addition of the Act in terms of the regulation of the form, the residence certificate from the double taxation avoidance contract, etc. I could still say that the amendments governing the working-law relations of the tax administration and precise criminal sanctions are being proposed, which is perhaps the most important thing in this law, I would say for a hundred reasons. I'll remind you that once in 2005, there were over 8,000 employees in the IRS, and today it's about 6.5 thousand, and that's already something that's positive in this time we live in, when it's necessary to reduce the number of employees in the administration. But something else is happening. According to this, tax workers or inspectors are missing, and then we come to one conflict because the government simply proposes to increase the number of employees, I say this when it comes to the processing of taxes in local self-governments, and here, on the other hand, we have data provided by Minister Markovic – that around 22,000 workers are currently employed in local self-government, and that in the next period it is proposed that the number of employees be reduced by 10,000, these are official data from the Ministry to which he manages. So, simply, here we enter into a problem and thinking and confusion – what, how to do local self-government? I think it's a little bit done in the amendments and additions to this law in the work that talks about the following problems, namely, that's what the facts say, we have to realize that the tax function of the state is its oldest classical function, because there is no state, especially the modern state. We all know that taxes finance public sector salaries, material costs of the public sector, pensions, social benefits, donations to culture, education, health care, investment in infrastructure and much more. It's hundreds of billions of dinars that need to be provided every year for a complex mechanism to work and that's true. Neither you, Madam Minister, nor the Ministry, nor the Government, nor we MPs would receive our salaries without the activity and work of state officials of the tax administration. These same tax administration officials carry out the most difficult and complex, most responsible, most professional and unpleasant jobs in the state administration system. They are often exposed to threats, insults, physical attacks, and we know that there have been cases and kidnappings, threats to family members, that they do not enjoy any protection or immunity. The task goes individually, unarmed and unprotected. Most often they ride in old, worn-out cars. They don't get any protective tools or protective equipment. Except for the tax police, no one has a recognised benefit. Due to the chronic lack of funds in the budget, tax officials are under constant press, threats to disciplinary penalties and supervision, and we are all familiar with it – that man would at times rather give up his freedoms than give up his money. Tax administration officers who are an important factor of this sector and members of their families by law are prohibited from any activity, activity in entrepreneurship outside of regular work and are required of absolute loyalty and commitment to work. For the slightest mistake, they are sent for disciplinary responsibility, most of all by civil servants. They cannot engage in politics, nor can they engage in party work. In return, state officials of the tax administration, regardless of their work experience, have about a salary, with medium professional training, we've heard that, out of 16 thousand, with a higher professional capacity of 21 thousand, high inspectors, yes, yes, with a high professional escort of over 40,000, about 40-45 thousand. I wonder how people with such poor wages, and work professionally and responsibly, securely, so how they can do their job hard, complex, and above all unpleasant. I have to point out the following. As a result of all this and the work mentioned earlier, there has been a major drain in recent years, especially highly educated personnel, and most of all in major centres where easier to get easier and less stressful, and of course better paid jobs. Especially unpopular work on tax collection in branches, where it remains to work who has the sea, which is under permanent press and control of higher instance and internal control, and all for the purpose of charging and permanent budgeting. Tax offenders and other tax officials are most directly exposed to all these difficulties and are doing extremely complex jobs. I must really point out that the age structure of tax officials is extremely unfavourable, because for years, savings are not given to young people and trainees, and little is invested in equipment. I hope, Madam Minister, that you will at least respect some of my remarks, and if I am correct, then there will be greater gains and greater liquidity of budgets and funds, and that by applying this tax administration law, dignity, above all, the dignity of civil servants, will be restored. This story of mine is very simple, because, of course, I have a lot of friends who work in the IRS, in different places, but stories are identical, I just reproduce their essence in the short version. I have to mention that four months ago, and it's about this topic, so I wouldn't get any more notice, I asked a parliamentary question, it's about tax officials, tax inspectors, I never got an answer – in Novi Sad, the daily press published it in all the media about half a year ago, that two criminal charges were filed against Mladjan Dinkic and Ilic, against the Novi Sad Radomana, and ten other financial inspectors because they didn't pay taxes from some Slovenian firms, and it's about a sum of about a million and a half euros, and some other things. There are two criminal charges, standing somewhere in a drawer, of course. When it comes to the ruling coalition, it is silent, and because of Serbian citizens, I now mention it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-10-0.u14765	Thank you. The word is Mr. Milorad Buh.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-10-0.u14766	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us a bill on amendments and additions to the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration. This is officially the sixth amendment to the Law to be a reform turn in the areas of tax policy and tax institutions working in tax and contribution to the Republic of Serbia. Namely, the basic material law was passed in 2002. Amendments followed, one correction in 2002, and after the 2003 correction, then the 2003, 2004, 2005, the second time 2005, 2006, 2007 and, here, another amendment to the Law. What makes this law change? We have to say the reasons. The reasons are numerous, and the most significant are the following: the current power after 2005 has gone into reform procedures, not seeing the essence of the matter in which these laws are passed, the laws are being made overnight, or the laws under European legislation or some comparative legislation, which are inadmissible to our opportunities and our situations, and then we have to change, and now we have this change. Furthermore, what is a mistake in the work of the current government, it is that when we look at this problem, or the current government when it looks at the problem, it comes out with certain views, not taking care of the legal system and the integrity of the legal system. So in this law, in the law of origin, we removed certain continents relating to the organization, as provided for by the State Administration Act. We've taken the continent out of the Law on Civil Servants and Regents. We've taken out a profit-related continent, etc. Of these parts of certain laws, we have made one law that is now subject to change because as soon as any of these laws are changed which is the integral part of this law must be changed and this law. There is a mistake in the legal concept and regulatory normation. So here we are, you see with a member of the 169th Mother's Law, i.e. 23. and 24. we have a bunch of provisions, this probably doesn't exist in any legislation in the world, on three or four pages with maybe two thousand words, we tried to insert everything we missed in that home law, and then we added and added, etc. And then let's make a law that doesn't look like anything. Your legal norms don't look like anything, the best example is this. The SRS has indicated a breach in legal normation on your part. The other day we said the same thing about the Law on International Legal Co-operation in Criminal Matters, where you have also drawn from several legal projects everything that regulates this area, built into this law and everything that changes in these laws of origin, it will have to be changed in this law, and so we come up with thousands and thousands of legal regulations in the legal system of the Republic of Serbia that are non-transparent, uncerified, not codified, and then we have problems in practical application. This is particularly relevant in the application of local self-government, when only these rules have several lawyers to work on just to see that legal legislation. Furthermore, what is important to emphasise is that the tax administration is very important in every country, especially in our country. For what? Because we are in a situation to collect taxes in a large part that is the source of the budget. In the 2009 budget, tax revenues are around 91.6 and non-tax revenue is resilient and 8.4%, respectively. If we see how it's defined in the 2008 budget, then we see that the percentage of tax revenues is even higher, close to 94%. That's why we care about the tax administration, her work, the quality of her work, the efficiency of work, the modernisation of the entire system that you don't do. Why don't you do the best showing and just an explanation of this bill where you explain on almost three pages that you have to, and you need to strengthen the service, hire new workers and train these workers, get high-quality workers. How are you going to get high-quality workers with salaries that are far below pay and earnings in other social activities, not to say in business or in other, non-economics, where wages are far higher? That's why the drain is so big. However, there is something else to worry about, especially the opposition, that in the tax administrations we have a very large number of party personnel that have been found, and then you have also inserted them among these eight thousand from 2006, most of which are party staffs of various parties that were in power before that. Meanwhile, 1,560 workers left the tax administration system on a variety of grounds. What she needs to worry about is the staff who got fired for failing to carry out the tax administration's orders. In each city, we will find dozens of such cases, Belgrade, Novi Sad, Kragujevac, Kraljevo, etc., full of such cancellations. Mrs Dragutinović, you know that very well. So, on the one hand, in the tax administration, we have personnel who can't bear the burden of the tax system and the reforms that you, as you stand for in the tax system, have no reform whatsoever. The reform was carried out with these laws and tax laws adopted three, four years ago and the introduction of VAT. This technical and technological modernisation of the tax administration is not a reform, it is no reform. Staff reform means depoliticalising this service, means modernising the mode of work, means technical preparation for work. With this kind of preparation that the workers in the tax administration have, no charge, no follow-up, no analysis! They can't do it technologically or technically, and on the other hand, they're not motivated, their profits are far below the earnings in other social activities, and you have to be aware of that. Five years of reform, you haven't reformed anything. There's a lot of absurdities. I mentioned Article 23 and Article 24, etc. It's a sinister norm, because you've got such a member here, referring to the birth member of 169 who has several thousand words, which is absurd and probably a world record and should be reported to the Ginis Institute. I see certain absurds, say, in Article 25. A bill where you show fines in dinars, which is unusual in our legal system and legal norms. The fines are shown in thousands of dinars or tens of thousands of dinars, and here they put fines for entrepreneurs of 12,500, which I find inappropriate. Again, you are introducing a certain legal category that is unusual in the legal system. What it needs to worry about is that with this administration, we can't raise enough funds and provide enough funding for expenditures that are growing from day to day, and revenues in the budget that are planned are not running at that rate and the height that is planned. This should concern us, and especially the current government, because all the activities of the authorities going in this direction do not find solutions. Why? We received information that somewhere in November of the month when we talked about dynamic economic development, when we talked about employment, when we talked about living standards rising, even in November, and we adopted this budget rebalance, we suddenly got information that we would slowly reduce everything we had predicted by the memorandum. So we reduced the gross social product rate of 6% by a 2009 budget to 3.5%. Now the prime minister comes out with information that this gross social product will be only 0.5%, and economic analysts, who deal with this problem, say (God forbid it is) that this is very promising for our opportunities and that this is almost unreal, that it is a dream for the current government and for the state system in which we live. Inflation that was predicted at 8% is now calculated with a level of 12%. The budget deficit forecasted for 2009 at 1.75% of GDP, with these calculations, will be 3% with a decrease in industrial production, a current inflation that is around 5.3% in the first two months, a decrease in imports of 37.5%, a 24% drop in exports, a 15% drop in investment, all of which should worry us. Instead of dealing with current economic positions and financial positions in which we live, we are dealing with certain peripheral legal projects that are inadmissible, because you have broken everything you shouldn't have. In a legal sense, this law doesn't look like anything. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-10-0.u14767	Thank you. The word is Mr. Dobrislav Prelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-10-0.u14768	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us a law on amendments to the Tax Procedure and Tax Administration Act. Mrs Dragutinović, in essence this amendment to the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration makes sense if it is seen on one side. The basis for the adoption of these amendments is in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and aims to regulate the tax system and ensure that the rights and duties of the Republic of Serbia are financed. However, here it is clearly seen or perceived that the basis of this law was written by G17 plus to employ another number of its party activists, who will likely have after the adoption of this law, as they used to say, rudely large salaries. Through the text of the reasoning can be read and understood that the tax administration should have enviedly high salaries which would be a motivational factor that would otherwise stop the drain of trained personnel with high professional equipment. This expensive state with an overpriced state apparatus through changes and additions to the Tax System Act is going through such a thesis that civil servants will leave services if they do not have motivational salaries. Do you even go a little underdeveloped to see how our citizens live and how much money they have a month? These changes and additions are essentially not very new, but they give you the basis to assess negatively and evict from the service in the coming period, and by new systematicization to increase the number of employees by hiring party personnel. Through a proposal like this, where the tax system is placed in unmistakable scientific work, where scientific rank experts are needed and, of course, richly paid, the intention of the author of this law is given. Just think of a few examples. The one who's striking, it's the disclosure of Bojan Krist by the SRS and the major robbery of budget funds. Our citizens live on the edge of existence. Surely no one is running away from their tax obligations, but, let's say, when agriculture is at stake, and the spring set is approaching, our farmer wants to pay all his dues anyway, but the obligations that are somehow imposed on him, where a professional farmer will be introduced, I don't think farmers are currently in a situation to pay. I think that the problem should be a little more serious and found a common interest, and since the state owes our farmer on various grounds it would be logical to make up for that part of the contribution that he has to pay on the basis of subsidies and various other benefits that the state owes him, rather than having an obligation to pay first, and then to get subsidies that he didn't get for certain things and two years back. I'll remind you that at the moment, there are enormous problems in agriculture, that we are all witnesses to Minister Dragina's statements, and I think he is absolutely aware that agriculture will be in a huge collapse this year. Imports of milk powder, which your minister also did, out of four thousand tons, Minister Dragin evaluated, and you know very well that someone who probably didn't have a brain could have done it. You know who imported the milk powder. The dairy production in Serbia has been automatically destroyed and all purchases from the cooperatives are currently lifted in the Republic of Serbia. Our reserves in milking powder are also extremely large. The state intervened with a purchase of 300,000 tonnes, and only a subotic dairies have 700 thousand tonnes. We are in grave danger, and you, Mrs Dragutinovic, not you personally but your government, have influenced all our farmers to raise their loans, that there will be subsidized production...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-10-0.u14769	Please now connect the milk powder with subsidies to the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-10-0.u14770	Mr. Novakovic, you are the man who comes from Vojvodina. I said we should try to find a way together, because our farmer is also in the tax process, trying to say that he can't pay taxes and try, Madam Minister, and this SRS proposal is going in that direction, to find a common solution to pay that tax correctly and to make it easier for him to do so in the next period.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-10-0.u14771	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-10-0.u14772	Please, Mr. Novakovic. Each member of the Amendments and the Supplement of the Tax Procedure Act has a replacement or adds a word that does not change the essence but, or is added and reads, is changed and said, from now on, that part is prescribed by the Minister and so on. All these changed words or additions have grounds, because they essentially mean nothing but a game of words changes something, a little more is given, and powers and responsibilities of the minister, and the essence of tax collection is clear and organized long ago, only selectively applied. Because there are tycoons and political-like ones that tax collectors can't touch, because otherwise they'll lose their job. I also agree, since you are a pro-European government, to coordinate the process and terms with the EU, because it is a commitment you have accepted to introduce Serbia into the EU in about 20-30 years. It is explained that the tax procedure is specific, unlike other procedures, because the establishment, control and collection of public revenues refers to the fastest circles of citizens and must be conducted professionally and responsibly in order to achieve the maximum rule of law and the protection of legal certainty and equality of all citizens, so an exceptional expertise and the ability of tax officials is sought, as if in other areas of state service it does not matter who works with citizens, and we know very well and mention the figure of 28 000 employees. I think everyone should work in the service of the citizens and act responsibly first. Furthermore, the bill says that tax enforcement officers will have new names and will be classified according to the needs of certain tasks of service or administration, which is fine. The internal organisation can be changed and the perpetrators can be named in one way or another, but make an explanation that it is necessary to ensure continued work throughout the year in public revenue collection only says that we have selectively functioned in this part and occasionally according to needs, and here it is about some rule of law and protecting the rights of all citizens. One thing is clear and inconclusive that the tax is the obligation of every citizen that the Tax System Act must be clear, non-selective and tolerable to citizens as in any developed rule of law. It doesn't require scientific expertise. It is clear to our citizens that the tax avoidance has enriched the largest number of tycoons in the period since 2000, which was largely led by Mladjan Dinkic. What is the right now for this socially responsible government to trust this, at a time of financial crisis, the most responsible job to the same people who have proven harmful to citizens and the state? Where is the right, at a time when ordinary citizens do not have basic costs, food and medicine, for civil servants employed in the tax administration to determine the privileges of treatment abroad, education of children abroad and so forth? It's really possible in rich and developed countries, but in our poor country, where civil servants have five and more times the salary of most citizens, it's a shame! Tax collection is the most important part of the job that secures normal functioning of the state, but each taxpayer has the right to use certain investment by the state through various funds and national investments. This isn't the case with us. I'll tell you how. Bojan Pajtic, in the province, directs the Capital Investment Fund selectively. I come from Odžaki municipality where, Mrs Dragutinović, the local tax administration was introduced a year and a half ago. We were the third municipality in Serbia, and I can tell you, as Ms. Natasa Jovanovic said, that we have automatically increased a third of our income, with a correct co-operation with our citizens. Why did I tell you this? Because Bojan Pajtic, because in the municipality of Odjaks in power, the radicals are also in the municipality of Vrbas and, to say the divided power in Apatino between the SPS and the SRS, when they share the funds selectively, gives us a spoon, so I ask if the citizens of our municipalities deserve to have the same treatment or to do so as we have so far? As has been done now, in the most harshest way possible and here in Zemun, they are headed for the collapse of absolutely all municipalities in Serbia. I'll bring you footage of high-ranking officials making such promises that it's just amazing, I can even say it's a crime. I will forward that CD here to the Assembly, and to you, to see for yourself what your politicians promise. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-10-0.u14773	Thank you. The word is Mr. Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-10-0.u14774	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Chairman, Madam Minister, this law you have proposed has come in the weather, because in its transitional and final provisions in Article 29, it is stated that this law has been applied since 1 January 2009. Secondly, this law takes effect on the eighth day of the day of its publication in the Official Messenger. So there's some misunderstanding or this was premature now that it was brought in, and that's how it was in the proposal. However, what I wanted to point out is that in this bill, you sought to convince the public that there was a need for more taxpayers to charge taxes from taxpayers. I would ask you to answer how many budgetary inspectors we have and how many tax officials do not pay taxes in Serbia. According to my knowledge, you only have 12 budgetary inspectors, and there are about 7,000 employees in the IRS. Therefore, there is no excuse to ask for a larger number in the system. On the other hand, quite logically, one question arises when taxpayers are to pay this kind of tax as much as they are today, so how come taxpayers can't exercise their rights when it comes to social, health rights and not count the other ones? Zagorac Pavo delivered me one letter, tax paid neatly for years, all contributions paid neatly. By the way, Zagorac Pavo is a citizen and resident of the municipality of Kovin. He could not get instructions to come for a review in Belgrade, although he worked at the Shipyard in Belgrade, so he could not get instructions from Covin and Panchev to come, to undergo treatment in Belgrade. This is a scandal, this is illegal. Is this ordered by autonomist Bojan Pajtic, so that the citizens of Vojvodina cannot, i.e. especially from Southbanat County, to be treated at clinics in Belgrade? It's illegal. You're a member of the government, so please pass it on to Minister Milosavljevic, and I already asked that question once, and I don't think that's right. It is a denial of fundamental human rights and, above all, it is contrary to the Law which has passed one regulation or one regulation, which is not in accordance with the law, it is at the same time not in agreement with the Constitution. (President: Mr. Jojic, time. We'll continue this afternoon. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-10-0.u14775	Thank you. Based on article 85, I'm setting a break of one hour and we'll continue at 15 hours and 5 minutes. Bon appétit. Thank you for your cooperation.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-10-0.u14776	Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before concluding a principled search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 93. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. I thank you. I'm finishing the initial search. We move to the 13-17th item of the agenda: – SUPPOSED DECISION ON THE SPECIFIC COUNCIL OF SERBIA, DISCONTINUED AND CHOOL OF THE MEETING OF THE REVISION INSTITUTIONS, DISCERNING AND DISCONTINUING OF THE COURT OF COURT OF COURT AGENCY AND OF THE COURT OF REFERENCE OF THE AGENCY AGENCY (Common Single Search) In accordance with Article 84, if necessary, we will work after 16.00 hours until the end of this item of the agenda. In agreement with the decision of the National Assembly to conduct a joint single search on the proposals for actions in the agenda under points 13 to 17 and before the opening of the search, I remind you that, pursuant to Article 163(3) and Article 94 respectively. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, are five hours, as well as that this time is allocated to MPs' groups of MPs by a proportion of Members of Parliament's groups, and this is the MEP's Group for European Serbia – one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; the SRS Group - one hour, nine minutes and 36 seconds; the G17 plus – 28 minutes and 48 seconds; the DSS - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; the Parliamentary Group Forward, Serbia - 24 minutes; the SPS - 18 minutes; the MEP Group LDP – 14 minutes and 24 seconds; the New Serbia Parliamentary Group – 10 minutes and 48 seconds; the Manjin Group – eight minutes and 24 seconds and the PUPS Group – six minutes, and the agreement of Article 93rd. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, MP Vladan Batic, who is not a member of any parliamentary group, has the right to speak for up to five minutes. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to file an application for a word, with a order of MPs. I would like to inform you that according to this agenda, the LDP parliamentary group will represent Mrs Vesna Pesic. In accordance with Article 163(3), and in accordance with Article 142(2), paragraph 2. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint single search on the proposal for a decision on the selection of members of the Health Council of Serbia, proposals for a decision on the termination of office on the election of a member of the Council of the State Auditing Institution, a proposal for a decision on the discharge of judicial duties, a proposal for a decision on the termination of judicial office and a list of candidates for members of the Anti-Corruption Agency Committee. Do the representatives of the motionor want a word? Does a member of the Finance Committee and the chairman of the Justice and Administration Committee want a word? No, I don't. ) Does the rapporteur of the Health and Family Committee, MP Simo Vukovic, deputy chairman of the Committee, want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Simo Vukovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-10-0.u14777	Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, given that I am an authorised representative for the point concerning the proposal for the composition of the Health Council, I want a few facts to be presented, which will be important. Of course, at the beginning, let me say that the Parliament Club, or MPs of the G17 plus, will vote in favour of this proposed composition of the Health Council. The health council that we should discuss and plead is also a legal obligation arising from the Health Protection Act, which was adopted in 2005. In Article 276, there was a obligation to select the Health Council after the adoption of the Law within nine months, after which a plan would be adopted to develop health care in the Republic within six months. However, given the circumstances resulting from the general political circumstances, and on the other hand, the slowness of formation, above all, the chamber – Pharmaceutical, Lekarska and Stomatology, all of this has contributed to this proposal today. So, the first request that the Ministry made from what was delivered to us as information dates back to 2006, after which no chambers had yet been established that had to make their proposals. The second proposal made at the ministry following the arrival of the proposal was at the end of 2007. However, due to the disbanding of the National Assembly and the extraordinary parliamentary elections, only the government adopted the proposal in late October 2008 and the first debate held on the Health and Family Committee was in November 2008. Of course, there have been a lot of objections and debates over the very composition of the Health Council, but because of the public and fellow MPs, I am obliged to say that 15 proposals for the composition of the Health Council have been made here, whereby the proposals are autonomously made by different institutions and, above all, two representatives from the regular professors of medical schools in the Republic of Serbia, one prominent expert from the regular professors of dental and pharmaceuticals, then, one representative from the Serbian Academy of Sciences and Arts, one representative from the ranks of the chambers of health workers, medical, dental, dental and pharmaceuticals, one representative from the Serbian Doctoral Society, one representative from the Association of Health Institutions, two representatives from the ranks of prominent experts in the field of health insurance and prominent experts in the field of public health development. The choice of the Health Council, in addition to being a legal obligation, is also a significant step in continuing the reform of the health care system in the Republic of Serbia. It represents one analogy with something that exists in other actions, resors, as it exists in the judiciary. Therefore, this is a strategic body that needs to deal with strategic issues in the field of health care, health insurance, planning and projection of personnel in the health system is necessary and, of course, we will feel the benefits of that, I hope very quickly. The very proposals that can be discussed individually, I would like to point out once again, are the fruit of autonomous decisions and proposals made by different institutions, which are prescribed by the Health Protection Act. On the Health and Family Committee, we also discussed these individual proposals, but it must be understood that, first of all, the Health Protection Act has not defined the criteria enough and we can talk about it in the next period, but it seems to me that every investment in the discussion, related to personal solutions that satisfy what the Law says, will introduce us to a completely different side that does not go into the very essence of what the Health Council should represent. So once again, I call on MEPs to plead on this proposal for a health council as a significant link to the reform of the health care system. Members of the G17 Plus will support this composition of the Health Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-10-0.u14778	Mr. Paja Momchilov will be representing this point for the SRS Parliamentary Group. Do any of the representatives of the proposing committees want a word? National MP Paja Momcilov has a word, then Milan Dimitrijevic, Dusanka Plecevic, Gordana Paunović-Milosavljevic and Nikola Žutić.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-10-0.u14779	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a respected presidency, as the predecessor said, has been supported by most votes on the Health Committee by a proposal from the government of the Republic of Serbia to elect this composition of the Health Council. The SRS MPs have taken their opinion with some other MPs from opposition parties, and I will now be free to point only in the main lines of the reasons why we have decided to do so. We believe that this is an extremely bad proposal that we have received, and this is an unsettled proposal, unsettled in both formal and essential terms. I'll take a closer look at the discussion in principle. I'm obliged to draw your attention to a few facts. According to the Health Protection Act, as my esteemed colleague, Art. between 150 and 155, the formation of this body numbering 15 members has been regulated and clearly stated in Article 150 – the Health Council of Serbia is being educated, in the text below, as a professional and advisory body providing for the development and quality of the health care system, health care organisation and health insurance systems. It does not stand what the previous exhibitor said, that the promoter has received autonomy to propose as he wills, because the law requires that a man be proposed and elected to such advice must be professional in order to play an advisory role. He can't advise the ignorant, but he has to be expert. What I mean by expertise now is I wouldn't explain it, and that's quite clear. What's interesting, the second fact that we draw attention to, happens to us that whenever there's a draft of a normative act on the agenda, there's a bill of health, it's passed by hasty procedure and hasty. Also, you know for yourself that on Mrs Nada Kolundzhija's proposal, the day before the meeting scheduled on March 5th, it was asked to be included in the agenda and this point, therefore, was not in the regular, given to us, the draft agenda. What is important, on 6 November 2008, the Health Council discussed the original proposal that you all received in this form. We couldn't agree with such an unqualityly processed proposal, where no explanation was given at all why certain people should be elected to the Health Council, no curriculum vitae, no biography and the Committee asked us to get the biographies of these people. Very soon, after a few days, the Ministry of Health sent this document completely unsettled, which seems to be anything but the right document to explain the proposals. What do we blame the document for? Unequal access. You have biographies on one side, you have biographies on 30 pages. You have to state here as a quality that the candidate, for example, was elected twice to the working council of the home of health inland. You have the expertise of a candidate – the driver of the 'B category' and the word course that qualified him to be in this council, not to talk about other things, where one proposed member is not afraid to say that he is a member of the Democratic Party of Serbia. So there are other problems for all of this. This is an unquality composition because it's not representative. Why? Of the 15 members of the Council, five people are engaged in basic medical science, not health care and practical work. There are four pharmacists here. Please, the Health Council should have four pharmacists. What falls into the eyes, there is not a single social medic, who is probably the most responsible for the organisation of health services and there are no quality representatives, affirmed both in our country and in the world in the problems of the organisation of health services. (President: I thank you, Mr. Momchilov. ( ) SRS MPs, I end up, for this reason they cannot support this and we feel that this should be returned. We'll give more detailed explanations in the debate that follows. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-10-0.u14780	Thank you. Do any of the other MPs who's singled out an opinion on the Committee want a word? Mr. Dimitrijevic, first of all. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-10-0.u14781	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, what I must first notice is that we do not have an authorised representative of the Government, or the Proposer, of the Minister of Health, Dr Tomic Milosavljevic. It's a practice, I think, that's permanent. The DSS will not support this proposal to form the National Health Council. On the Health Committee several times we pointed to some facts, primarily related to the formation of Serbia's dental chamber and determination, in a completely illegal way, representatives in front of that professional organisation at the National Health Council. In addressing my esteemed predecessor, Dr. Paja Momchilov, one mistake is lost, not a member of the DSS Chamber, he's a member of the DS, just to determine that fact. So we come up with a question that is very important and very important – is the professional qualification for membership in such an important body a political party? I don't think you should. This isn't just about this candidate. You have other candidates who publicly in their biographies delivered to the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia show their belongings to a particular political party; membership in the Union of Communists of Yugoslavia, in the City Committee of the Union of Communists of Yugoslavia, and you will be able to read such things in the biographies of these people who, as a proposal from the Government, came to the Assembly for consideration. There's one more important thing I'd point to. This is certainly not the implementation of what is defined by the new Constitution, or by the Constitutional Law. So I'll remind you of article 15. A constitutional law that says that by 31 December 2008, all other laws that do not comply with the Constitution will be harmonised. So, December 31st, 2008, it was a long time ago. Is there a compliance between these laws? It doesn't exist. The DSS has repeatedly on the Health Committee, and in the previous meeting, asked the question – why the national health council is not being formed. Why not form an important institution that will deal with numerous problems that are currently burdening Serbia's health. Later in the debate, we will present a number of things that happen in Serbian health and which problems burden Serbian health. This is not how an important institution such as the Health Council can be formed and proposed by people who primarily and as an exclusive qualification have a belonging to a political party. That's the point of the problem. If this is the approach and this is the way things are viewed, these accumulated problems in Serbian health will not be solved. These problems will continue to be a proposal for the coalition's rotten compromises, which is in power. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-10-0.u14782	Thank you. Is there anyone else who wants a word to know who's taking his mind off it? Yeah. Mrs Dušanka Plečević. Here, you have a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-10-0.u14783	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Committee on Health and Family have delivered an opinion on the proposal for a decision to elect members of the Health Council of Serbia. The law that regulates this matter was adopted in 2005 and sets a six-month deadline since its adoption to elect the Health Council in the National Assembly. So, from 2005 to 2009, this is a period of three years and slightly more, this council was not elected although there was a continuity of Mr Tomica Milosavljevic's ministry all the time. As much as he's interested in this point, you can tell by the fact that he didn't come to this debate at all. The excuse that certain institutions did not give their candidates in time and that the Assembly was disbanded in the meantime due to the extraordinary parliamentary elections cannot be taken as an excuse. The proposals were fully submitted at the end of 2007. My remarks focused primarily on the selection of candidates proposed by the Serbia's Stomatology Chamber. There are numerous problems in this institution, from the question of the regularity of the selection of the director of the chamber, which challenges the Stomatology Section of the Society of Doctors of Vojvodina, the Serbian Medical Society's branch – that there was no official session at which the candidate was proposed and elected as a member of this health council. Also, there are many forgeries in the work. The chamber has not yet issued a license for the work of dentists, and membership fees are regularly collected. In addition, my remarks also referred to a vague and unequal selection criteria, so we have that curriculum vitae among some candidates was written on the 30th page, and in one candidate precisely the one proposed by the dental chamber, on one side, where it seems the biggest recommendation was that the DS member, from its establishment. Furthermore, there are few people in this proposal who are responsible for the health of the population, who are also recognised in international health organisations, such as the World Health Organization. From the health ministry's representative, Mr. Periša Simonovic, who was at the meeting of the Health and Family Committee, we heard that the Ministry of Health was not involved in the selection of candidates for the Health Council, which is of course not his job, but the proposal came from the Ministry of Health through the government to this assembly and the responsibility of the Ministry of Health for the work of this council is just great. So, over a period of three years since the Law on Health Protection was adopted, no quality proposal for membership in the Health Council of Serbia has been submitted.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-10-0.u14784	Thank you. From the representatives of the parliamentary groups, does anyone who took the stand want a word? No, I don't. Mrs Vesna Pesic came from the representatives of the speech groups. Here you go, then, Mr. Momchilov.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-10-0.u14785	Dear Madam President, dear fellow MPs, my discussion concerns the role the Assembly should play in certain roles for the highest bodies elected by the National Assembly of Serbia. According to the suggestions we have received, we can see that the Assembly really cannot perform this role to a good extent, if it accepts the proposals where it is said - that the candidate who is proposed meets the legal requirements. My general remark is – I guess that's understood. If we choose the boss, I don't know, in some company or anywhere, a professor who needs to teach somewhere - must meet legal requirements. For these functions chosen by the National Assembly, which are very special functions with enormous responsibility, and candidates who are proposed do not even have a normal explanation why one who meets legal requirements is chosen. So the Assembly needs to take responsibility. I wanted to bet here that the Assembly can't go on like this in the future, because these proposals you deliver are nowhere to be explained that we can say with full faith and that we as a congregation stand behind these people who need such an important role to play. It is important to add that we mainly choose those bodies that are related to a very important and crucial problem in this society, and that is the issue and the problem of corruption. You know our citizens are very sensitive to that as well. Whenever public opinion research raises a question in four first problems, corruption is the thing that pisses the citizens the most and the most. And we are not children here, and we know that our society is infected with systemic corruption, but most often those people who need to control corruption and be in charge of this phenomenon, we choose these people in Parliament. I'll show that it's not just the Anti-Corruption Agency. You know when the institution is now formed, which is very much expected, because it was brought here last autumn, and the new law, that there are huge expectations by citizens, that the Republic Committee for the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, and also the Council for the Combating Corruption -- all due to this new institution, which is due to start working in 2010. So, it's not just about proposals for this institution, and it's been an example before, I'm just showing you how unseriously proposed people are to consider strategic issues, meaning of general interest, or to be the main controllers, let's say, in the State Audit Authority or when it comes to the Anti-Corruption Agency. These are all institutions that control, above all, the work of individual bodies and control the exercise of public interest. When it comes to something that was mentioned earlier, and I will also point it out here, that is, when it comes to the Health Committee, there is no one from Batut, it is an institution that deals with social medicine. Whenever it comes to strategic health issues, then someone in social medicine could be. However, we see a bunch of pharmacists, who are there. Then there are also proposals from institutions under forced management. I don't know how anyone dares to propose such an institution for the Health Committee of the Republic to deal with strategic health issues in our nation, in our country, to deliver to the Assembly? Also, are we even obliged to put such proposals on the agenda or can the Assembly, please let the President explain this to me, to return these proposals and to say – please, give us proposals that really represent the level and guarantee that this Health Committee will do the right thing? I'll illustrate it on other examples. We see that when it comes to, let's say, an extremely important institution, which unfortunately hasn't started working at all, it's the State Audit Institute, which, for these or those reasons, has not yet started to work. Here we have a proposal from a lady named Danka Aksentievich. I can see that she's not an auditor at all. When you take a closer look at her résumé, first of all, there's no recommendation. Mr. Senic signed this, I must say, on behalf of our board, means the Assembly Committee on Finance, too, has no explanation – why it is proposed to be a state auditor. Thank you. So, apart from legal conditions, there's nothing that she's professional in, which is why she can do it, what her personal characteristics are, what from her biography and her work résumé suggests that she can be in the Council of State Audit. On the contrary, in fact, we don't even know who suggested it. The vacancy of a member of the Council of the State Auditing Institution was presented here on November 25th. Proposed by whom? Who suggested it? When's the proposer? The entire Committee, or from this, can conclude that it is a member of G17 plus, that it is proposed in an institution where party membership should not be decided. Of course, it's not just about you, just to apologize to Mrs. and the G17 Plus party, you're not only suggesting you, but it's not about everyone, so it's not just about this party, but it's clear that the lady was proposed because she became the director of the Užica Tax Administration branch in 2004, just when the G17 plus entered the government and there was until 2008, and now a new job is being sought. She's a seminarist of various seminars, etc., the auditor isn't! Therefore, it appears to be a party proposal. I think it's fairer to say that this is the party's representative and we can at least know what it's about, than that party's belongings are being disguised, and it's clear that this was proposed by the G17 Plus party. So that's about the Auditory Institution. We can then say that this audit institution probably didn't start working because it doesn't answer to the parties, because it should start controlling parties' finances, and then it gets harder and who knows if it's ever going to work. What I specifically wanted to point out to this occasion, I've already said, is to the Anti-Corruption Agency. You see, we've got all these suggestions here, and there's these general remarks that I've already said, that there's no, other than legal conditions, or a very stupid, no explanation, it really doesn't matter why someone's proposed to be in the Anti-Corruption Agency Committee. So we're kind of surprised that for some candidates they even stand out, and by law, I've passed the law and I can read it to you, it's written for them that they can't be party members, and that's, of course, fine. But what is confusing is that there are candidates who have been proposed to other functions on a party key or on a party recommendation, or have a number of different public functions, and then it is said that the candidate is not a member of any party. It seems comical to see these people perform other public functions by party nominations, and they are not party members, from which it really cannot be concluded that they are people who can objectively and securely perform their duty. Here, I'm going to start with our Administrative Board, and it gets me the most, our Assembly committees don't bother at all when it comes to our candidacys, the candidates from the Assembly are no better, they're even worse than the other proposings. You see, our Management Board is proposing to the candidate Professor. Zoran Stojiljkovic, whom nothing else has to say why he should be a member of this committee, except that it should be kept in mind that it is a prominent scientific worker. Please, is someone who is a scientific worker, a doctor or any other profession qualified to be a member of the Anti-Corruption Agency? Where did such a person show, not only does he have expertise, but when it comes to this committee, then first of all he has to say what the integrity of that person is, is he inclined to suffer the pressures on the side and whether he has the integrity to be on that committee or has no integrity to be on that committee? Otherwise, if someone was a research worker, this or that, a driver, a craftsman, it doesn't matter when it comes to this committee. Therefore, apart from this feature, nothing stands. When we look at Mr Stojiljković's biography, we can see that he has a lot of other functions, so one function, also, by party membership, because we know that someone becomes a member of the board of directors, becomes a party by proposing him, he is on the board of directors of the AD 'Politika', in that part of the state where he arrived by being proposed by the party, and yet he has a brighter function. I'll read you all the functions Mr. Stojljkovic performs and ask you what else he needs this function when he has so many functions? He is a member of the Republic Employment Council, the Management Board of the Pension invalidity Fund, the Management Board of the AD “Politika”, then, a member of the CESID Research Team, vice-president of the “Independence” Trade Union. It's just amazing how someone can and can do this first piece of work, research, if there's this number of functions, this number of boards of directors? Be careful, in order not to take time, I need everyone as officials and MPs from them to ask permission to perform a second public function or a third public function. Please, these members of the Anti-Corruption Agency that allow us to function differently, and they have five functions each?- I'm sorry. This is an unprecedented disgrace. It's incomprehensible, that they approve of another function and they have five functions! The Governing Board of such terrible proposals gives us that we can't figure out if he's an uncle, an uncle, or if he's related when he loves this proposal so much to put him here to be a member of the Anti-Corruption Agency. I think this was very convincing of what I've said so far, but we can keep going like this, think about it and watch what happens next. You see, then comes the proposal for Mrs. Sonja Licht, proposed by the President himself. He says he believes the proposed candidate owns professional and personal qualities based on which he can perform the function he has proposed it to be a member of that anti-corruption committee. Of course, I don't think the president should waste his time explaining what personal qualities these are and showing what expertise is, but he has a professional service, he could have asked his service to explain such a proposal, because after that there is also acceptance of it, where he says - I accept Boris Tadic's candidacy. Well, he's not for her, Boris Tadic. Tomorrow someone else will be President of the Republic. Instead of saying – the president of the Republic, she says – Boris Tadic. This intimacy raises real suspicions that there is also some very suspicious thing, because the president does not state the role she has as chairman of the Management Board of Politics, but says she is president of an NGO for 'political excellence', that it is her main role, and it is not mentioned at all that she is the chairman of the Management Board of Politics, which is one high political function. Both the previous candidate and this candidate finish their biographies by doing so – I am not a member of any party. In doing so, there is no explanation of what personal characteristics are, what is expertise, that is general, it simply applies to everything. Please, look, now we're coming to the judge where Vida Shkero, as president of the Supreme Court, also had the right to propose two candidates. There is a lady named Mileva Gajinov, she is the Supreme Court of Retired Judge and is proposed to another person named Jelisaveta Vasilic, otherwise a lawyer. These two people did not attach either the CCV or the biography, but in the very proposal Mrs. Shkero wrote several sentences for these two persons. These others have at least brought some biography, so we can see that some legal conditions meet, but there are only a few rows that Mrs. Shkero has given not as some recommendation, but she's pulled out of her biography, and there's no biography at all or any fact that they've given about themselves. I noticed that Mrs Jelisaveta Vasilic has a big problem. You see, she should be a member of the Anti-Corruption Committee, and she's an expert consultant for the Privatisation Agency. That's absolutely not allowed. All her clients are, as a lawyer, as far as I could ask, people who have a job on privatisation. No one who's involved in some kind of business can be a member of the Anti-Corruption Committee. I'm just pointing out that if we raise our hands for these candidates to sign in advance that this Anti-Corruption Agency, which we've had a suspicion from the beginning that it's not going to work properly, but according to these proposals, we're almost confident, will be nothing. I could continue to order, but I won't bother you with this anymore, because some candidates, I haven't mentioned them all, there are more, some I haven't criticized, and I haven't criticized and where I haven't pointed out these shortcomings, probably, maybe I shouldn't have. However, some people could get a little more support, let's just say, as some of them were on the Committee on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, because it's obvious they have some experience in this area, but it goes beyond that as irrelevant. I'll close with this. It can't be for the most institutions, the State Audit, the Anti-Corruption Committee, only when you look at what this Committee has to do, that these proposals are being submitted to the Assembly and that the Assembly is voting, we should return them to all the proposings and do this homework again. I don't know what you're going to do as the ruling majority, but I hope you have enough conscience, especially what the President of the Republic himself said now that he's been on the Copalnik, it seems to me that we're almost not going to survive if we don't break up the relationship between politics and business, crime and justice. Did the President of the Republic say that? Yes, it is. Did he say at a party meeting of the DS that as MPs, you are beginning to give an initiative to amend the Party's Finance Act, which is the main source of corruption, because the link between politics and businesses is forming precisely towards the dark and mysterious financing of parties. If that's what your president said, I expect you'll reject these proposals and not accept these suggestions. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-10-0.u14786	Thank you. Until the beginning of the session, it was only possible for the promoter to withdraw the agenda, and now we can only declare ourselves 'for' or 'against'. Mr. Paja Momchilov has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-10-0.u14787	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, we have a united debate on five points of the agenda, and one might wonder if they have any organic connections, however, with circumstances in the society in which they live and how to connect. What connects them? They are linked, in my opinion, by something called the pain of this Serbian society, which is corruption. In my presentation, I'll try to explain it. We have a proposal for a decision on the selection of members of the Health Council, the most I will refer to this item of the agenda, as regards the proposal for a termination of office on the selection of members of the Council of the State Auditing Institution and other proposals for a decision on the discharge of the judge's office, then, the motion for a decision on the termination of the office of the judge and the list of candidates for the selection of members of the Anti-Corruption Agency will speak to my party colleagues. I was free to say in my previous presentation that the MPs of the SRS cannot vote in favour of the Health Council proposal and, Madam Chairman, I see that you are not responding because there is no authorised representative here. We don't know the reasons why they're away, whether this body we have to choose as the Assembly doesn't matter, whether the competent ministry has more important things to do and does other things, I don't know. Now I'm going to draw attention to this body that is clearly defined by law, and I've already told you that this body should be professional and advisory. Interestingly, in Article 151 of the Law, he deviates from the standard he gave in the previous article and says – two prominent experts, then one prominent expert, then one prominent expert, and one representative, means he no longer has to be a prominent expert, and yet one representative from the ranks of members of the Chamber, one representative from the Serbian Doctors' Society, one representative from the Health Workers' Association. The Law itself is, as it was made, ridiculous, because if the expertise in the previous article is mandatory for all members, then it had to stand for all the members counted to stand behind them and a certain proven expertise. We know how she's measured, it's not a secret, someone's got to own something, academic titles, it's got to have scientific and professional activities, it's got to have something that's published and published, it's got to have certain functions it's proven or not, and it's got to have some social recognitions. So all the things we expected to see when they gave us these suggestions in this paper that's really embarrassing, you can't find. For example, it is said of the 15th member, without evil intentions according to the proposed member, Dr Sandra Šipetic-Grujic, an extraordinary professor of the Medical Faculty in Belgrade, a prominent expert in public health promotion and development. This is what the proposal says, and then the explanation says, you see what is said in the explanation for the same person – the exact same thing, Dr Sandra Šipetić-Grujičić, the extraordinary professor of the Medical Faculty, a prominent expert on promotion and development from the field of public health. Whoever wants to believe, who doesn't have to believe, who's interested, has to look for a person, determine whether it's true or not. And, after the wait, in 2005, the Health Protection Act that prescribed the formation of this council was adopted, in a situation where candidates are proposed to us, however, with additions for the members of the Health Committee on this document which looks like this, unregulated, where these council members are expected to have a likely material compensation. In this brief explanation, they were honest, so they said the funds were allocated for the functioning of this 45 million dinar body, which will be at the monthly level of 3 million and 750. This is going to be paid officials and I'm not going to share this with fifteen, to see how many members of this council will receive. But our remark was in principle that for formal reasons we can't accept this, because the material is messy, I told you that someone said that they were twice chosen for a member of the working council, and in a proposal for one candidate we received a report on the selection of teaching in college. That's our biography?- I'm sorry. We need to read what's written about this candidate at medical school and get out of it what we need. Of course, I told you, the candidate who wrote that he has a "B category" of expertise, will probably advise on driving in this council the rest of us Serbian citizens, and the health of it will not have. In an expert explanation, one candidate states, imagine, the native language. If the native language is something that's professional, some professional qualification, then I'm taking off my hat! I have in my hand a proposal, a letter sent by the chairman of the Board of Directors or the Assembly of the Stomatology Chamber of Serbia to the Ministry of Health and to Assistant Minister Ivana Misic. He says --the director made an illegal decision, past the Management Board and the Assembly, on a representative of Serbia's dental chamber in the Health Alliance. He signed, this is Dr. Misko Jelicic, president of the Serbian Chamber of Stomatology. If there were anything in this country of justice to be placed on, and this is a legal state, this proposal would be withdrawn immediately after this. But you don't mind. You don't mind that these unquality proposals give both chambers, both Lekarska and Stomatology, under the emergency supervision of the Ministry of Health. What kind of surveillance? Infringements of legal regulations and legal norms. I own letters here that send letters to the leaders of the Medical Chamber, the President of the Assembly, director of the Chamber. These are huge letters accusing each other of various attempts at malfeasance. I own a document on the Chamber of Health Care Professionals, which says it is available with funds collected at the expense of membership fees and at the expense of a non-small licence, is believed to cross fivem euros. See what they did first - they gave the logo to the Bank of Intes, without a tender. They're asking us doctors to take the American Express card. Anyone who understands a little bit knows that's where the commission goes. You know it's also legal, but when someone does that, who's set up for it and who's doing it. I'm not going to read you any other powerful performances that have come to the Health Committee, especially from the Serbian dental chamber, on the illegality of work. That chamber, which here now legitimately gives you proposals, has not even given licenses to its dentists. The same chamber did not even establish its organs, which it was required under the Law to build. The law was passed in 2005, I remind you, and we are today in 2009. I said this composition absolutely doesn't fit the purpose. I said that five members of the people who do basic science, not professional medical work, medical treatment and organisation, all of these people may be quality, I suppose, and if we chose them in a body called the advice on science or education, there wouldn't be any disputes or problems. I said there are four pharmacists here, 15. Do you know how many doctors there are, how many pharmacists there are? The doctor has, according to the medical chamber, 28 grand. Do you know how many pharmacists there are, is that a real health care team? This body, if you look at what needs to be done and what needs to be done, cannot respond to quality tasks. That's why the SRS MPs won't vote for such a bad proposal. Who's to blame? Of course, Proposer – Government. The Ministry of Health can't say "we were just transmissions between the government and individual authorised promoters". Yeah, it's a transmission, but what's the role of the transmission? To control the legality of the proposal. The Ministry has been returning certain suggestions as we have seen from their explanation. What did she have to have in mind? It had to be borne in mind that all persons had to be professionally checked, proven, and known personalities with us. You can also say this: "Serbian radicals, as usual, just criticise and have no proposal". We have a proposal. The Health Committee has proposed that, precisely because of these problems, an initiative should be launched to amend legislation and regulations that will regulate more proper candidateship and the choice of candidates for the Health Council. This is how the Law predicted such an unsuspecting way, as it were, does not lead to a quality Health Council. That's the problem. What's missing? Mrs Pesic also said, although she is not a doctor, she sees it and she understands it, the woman has one broader horizon of thinking. There's no social medics. Social medicine is what the genuin organization of health care deals with. Who isn't here? There are no top experts in the field of social medicine here. Let me tell you a few names. Let's just say, Professor... Victoria Cucic, a prominent scientific worker, prominent health care organizer, author of many projects, successfully completed them by healthcare organisations. We here have two living, completely mentally preserved experts of the World Health Organization. Let me point out to you Professor Jakovljević, author of "Monika" and "Sindi" project in these areas, which has proven itself in the repression of the most severe diseases that our nation has seared and which, by means of measures implemented in the community with other countries of the World Health Organization, has managed to reduce the mortality of cardiovascular diseases. There's no access here. Not to be a Serbian radical stranger, to remind you, this same Mr. Jakovljevic, it seems to me that he was in the DOS, that he was in the first DOS Health Council and was in those elections a prominent DOS representative. Gentlemen, what you suggested is not good. This is not in the interest of the Serbian people, and that is why we will not support this. What bothers us more about discussing things like this? Not criticalism, we are motivated by two things: an extremely difficult health situation in which our country is located. And what's he looking at? It is reflected in the increasing mortality of our population from year to year. A man would expect that after the suspension of sanctions since 2000, when we have the assistance of the international community, and the European Community tells us "we have invested in you 150m euros", we have received loans from the international community, gross national income is growing, according to indicators, up to this year. What's going on? The state of health of the nation is getting worse. Why? For the simple reason that the reform has completely failed here, the reform has failed to stop the negative flows of mortality. What do we die of most? We're dying of chronic non-infectious diseases. What's that? Cardiac, cardiovascular, heart attack, stroke. And, we have another monster that destroys us, the citizens of Serbia are upset, every year 32,000 new cases of cancer. Every year, 20,000 Serbian citizens die of cancer. If you look at these ten years of what happened to us, 20% of the deaths of cancer in these areas. What's the problem with chronic non-infectious diseases? The problem is, in 80% of cases prevention can prevent premature mortality. What measures? The preventive measures the Ministry needs to see are important and focus all their attention on them. To throw away a mass of material resources and enable the primary level of health care to prevent these diseases and mortality. Scandinavian countries have reduced, Finland, for example, cardiovascular mortality just by applying a 50% prevention measure by ten years. Imagine if we cut that mortality by 25% in five years. We would then and how to fight and, in part, with the white plague, with an ever smaller birth which is also a major social problem. So she's completely out of health policy. We don't even have a health policy adopted by this parliament. There, there was an excuse that we didn't have the Health Council. Now we're going to get an unskilled health advice that won't be able to do what his duty would be and what we would all expect him to do. Another problem that destroys Serbian society and Serbian health is corruption. Just one remark, to be clear, from this place we have repeatedly pointed to it, when we talk about corruption then we should bear in mind that Serbian citizens should know that 25% of Serbia's budget, which is being collected, has gone to corruption. And if we wanted to say what we lost or what we got, we got to cost us all 20% more; and those communals we pay and what we buy as goods of broad consumption and what we buy for food. The Serb society's cancer wound has not bypassed health care, and that's a shame. The president of the state recently said, at a party meeting, that we would be in a difficult situation if we do not prevent the grip of politicians, justice and others, corrupters. Here's a typical example that confirms that it's really our problem. There were also words from this pay phone about what was going on in Kamenica. We learned from writing the daily 'Alo' of, and I quote the exact date of December 15th, it was found that a sterilisation equipment costing a realistic 56,000 euros was purchased and 350,000 euros were paid. What's going on with that? One of the unions, "Independence", filed a lawsuit with the district public prosecutor's office and then the district public prosecutor's office filed a criminal charges against the responsible persons, a criminal charges 622/07. So these allegations were supposed to be checked. They've been checked and the process has been initiated. The judge was ordered to proceed with the trial and he called witnesses. But what happens now? Now the judge from Novi Sad, based on a filed request for an investigation, is calling for a suspect's hearing. However, right after that, two days later, the district attorney from Novi Sad makes a decision to withdraw the case. What's next? By order of the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office, jurisdiction shall be transferred to the State Public Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade. That's Mr. Radovanovic! He takes the item and puts it in the drawer and holds it for the next four months. Now finale, February 12th... (President: Time, Mr. Momchilov. )......................................................................................................... I'm done, subject goes to Valjevo. That's how you fight crime! That's how you do it. Why? Because this is what DS members are involved in, because it's publicly said that there's nothing out of this, and the people who...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-10-0.u14788	Thank you, Mr. Momchilov. Mr Tomislav Nikolic has a word. Here you go. I warn the SRS MP group to allow Mr Nikolic to speak uninterruptedly.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-10-0.u14789	Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I would refer to the proposed candidates for the Anti-Corruption Agency, because it seems to me that this is an inserted item of the agenda on speed, as proof that Boris Tadic really wants to fight crime, bribe and corruption, given that the economic counseling act on the Kopalnik has been thrown into the fight against bribes, corruption and crime, as it is clear to all of you that the measures you are proposing in the area of economic and monetary policy, not only will not come out of the crisis, but will become even more stuck in this crisis. Here, give the people bread and games, give them the fight against bribery, corruption and crime, arrest police all over Serbia, celebrate these actions, and it will turn out that there is nothing good for Serbia either, or at least there is nothing better than it was. It's not 2001 you're building crisis headquarters, and this anti-corruption agency looks like one of the DOS crisis headquarters. With DOS coming to power, Serbia has been dominated by bribery, corruption and crime. The Dossov battle against Dossov myth, corruption and crime began immediately. It began with the government's Anti-Corruption Council, which is now among the top members of the government, never had the government's support for its conclusions, measures and efforts, which are slowly shutting down although some of you say the council will remain to help the government fight corruption. We now have suggestions that different institutions have sent to the National Assembly for humiliation. These are not proposals to be presented by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I will try to illustrate this to you on several examples, although I have never dealt with personal solutions to anyone who suggests anything, believe me, there are suggestions that need to be discussed personally, because they insult dignity, common sense, because in themselves they suggest that the person who proposes this is not at all honest and that he does not want to fight corruption at all. Let's start with the candidates. My main objection is what qualify them to be members of an agency that will run in a senseless race to fight against bribery, corruption and crime? Is that their youth and energy? Is it an experience in jobs where they had the chance to fight this kind of violation of the law? Is it their career so far? The case is Dr. Zoran Stojljković. It's been written a lot in his CV, and I realized he was the most involved in social dialogue and unions. Indeed, there are many articles on the subject of social dialogue, and somewhere before the end of the CV, the promoter tried to convince us that he knew something about political parties, that he also wrote about political parties in some of his articles. Look at the wonders, mostly about some social democracy. The next gold candidate is Sonja Licht. Could you imagine Sonja Licht being at the Anti-Corruption Agency? She, who, by order of her mentor and financier Gjerj Soros, corrupted two-thirds of Doss while still in opposition. She, who has arrived at all the institutions of the system, she, whom none of you must say, she, who opens the door with her foot, she, who also arrived at the AD 'Politika', who arrived in the government of Vojislav Kostunica and in the government of Boris Tadic. What does that qualify as a 62-year-old woman to be a member of the Anti-Corruption Agency?- I'm sorry. It's just that she's been on Sorosa's payroll for many DOS officials for many years, to the extent that she can always call them on the phone and tell them where her next place is. After all, you MPs from the old assembly are witnesses that different ministries and the government of Vojislav Kostunica organised lectures at the House of the National Assembly, in co-operation with Sonja Licht. Never, since the DOS came to power to this day, has any government been free of the influence of Sonja Licht. Today she is at the Anti-Corruption Agency and says she accepts Boris Tadic's proposal, and perhaps it is within the reach of being president of Serbia, so she proposes such candidates to fight corruption. Dr. Tanja Misčević, who had to write that she was not a member of any political party and thus fulfilled one obligation under the law, but also had to inform us that she had worked for several years at the Institute of G17 Plus, at the Institute that was corrupt by the West by fictional projects, money paid into the account of the Fund...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-10-0.u14790	Mr. Nikolic, excuse me, one moment. I give a warning to Mark Milenkovic and give a warning to Krstin Milorad. I would ask the other MPs not to disturb Mr. Nikolic as he speaks. Go on, Mr. Nikolic. (Employers of the SRS, during a speech by the president of the National Assembly, applaud. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-10-0.u14791	This reminds me of the times when you listened to my discussions. So she led the work of the G17 Institute European Studies Department in Belgrade, trained candidates from Serbia-Montenegro to join the EU, to join, was a member of Serbia's negotiating team to conclude the Association Agreement. What's qualified to fight corruption, to fight bribery, to fight crime?- I'm sorry. That she's out of a job?- I'm sorry. We are now arriving at a part that is interesting because when you select seven members of this agency it will be counted as an agency, and then the oldest member of the Anti-Corruption Agency will be chaired by the Agency's session and qualified according to Serbian Supreme Court Mileva Gajinov, with only 73 years of life. Serbia's Supreme Court's second proposal is Jelisaveta Vasilic, 69 years old. The energy, the will, the tenacity, the desire to prove, the courage to resist the challenges, to contain one power that slowly loses both the ends and the arches, returns the 'known rights'. Here, choose from these two candidates. Ideally, one of the 71 years of life would be between 69 and 73. I'm really not talking about these people's careers. They ended up with one of them eight years ago. Now she needs to be returned to the Anti-Corruption Agency. The next candidate, the senior candidate, Cedomir Cupic. I guess you'll pick him sometime. The man's trying so hard, he's running so hard, he's trying so hard to influence the political scene of Serbia, he's not going to be anybody, he's probably going to be wanted by the ZES MPs, because he showed in the Anti-Corruption Council that he's ready for it, and he's really got his way of life, and especially the fact that he was a member of the Resistance Council, the legislation that he can join the Anti-Corruption Agency. Besides, Dr. Slobodan Beljanski, who is a candidate of the Bar Association, has 40 years of legal training. Who will experience the chairmanship of the first meeting of the Anti-Corruption Agency if we are late, so it is not set up in time. This is just one piece of evidence that you're not interested in fighting corruption, bribery, crime. You have each other's interests. You have an illusion, a virtual reality. Virtual democracy, virtual law, respect for the law, virtual fight against corruption, bribery and crime. If you really wanted to fight, you would take young, energetic, capable and educated people who have proven themselves, that no one, when they set out to defend law, law and justice, can do anything to them. Sociology says he's a fighter, the younger a fighter, and there's a lifetime in which a man calms down, it's not for a fight. That's what we feel, some of us, slowly. Even me, sometimes I'd fight a terrible fight against those who won't let me speak, and now I have an understanding for them. Mr. Todorovic, you're being ridiculous to yourself. I kind of understand them. It should be proven to Vojislav Seselj. (President: fellow MPs, please do not throw away. Since you can't be serious, you have to insult, swear... (President: I warn you, you will get a second warning, do not throw it away. Mr. Spaho, don't throw it away, you'll get a second warning. )......................................................................................................... that it doesn't turn out that you have some sympathy for me, and you have them. That's why you're drawing on yourself some kind of shell of hate. I, indeed, feel for you some collegiate solidarity The topic is corruption, and I'll get to it in Zemun. [[Heads from bench: Theme, Theme]] So you're my political rivals. I wish you really well from day one, but just because I wish you well doesn't mean that you wish yourself well. What I think you should do, you don't work and you came where you are. So, in the elections in Zemun, you'll have to prove that there was no bribery, corruption and crime. It will also have to be proven by Dragan Todorovic, not by paper that bought three or four acres of land, but by paper that bought all the country in Zemun. When you prove it to me, then discuss the fight against bribery, corruption and crime. Until you prove it to me, insult me, challenge me so that I may offend you in order to be punished. Maybe it's your pleasure. I am not pleased that the President of the Assembly is punishing you, but I am paying attention to you – we have decided not to pay any more parliamentary group meetings and that what costs you now has no place to settle. So listen to every speaker with attention, you can learn something from someone, you can't learn from someone, one of you can learn from someone, someone can't. I'm here. I'll need you, perhaps, after the next election to form a government. Make sure you get better, I'll take you to that government. Thank you. (Employees of the SRS, all the time presenting MP Tomislav Nikolic, are banging on the benches. [[Applause]] )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-10-0.u14792	The word is Mr. Todorovic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-10-0.u14793	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, will you give me my time, the other day I arrived home, and when I got out of the car, I was attacked by a housekeeper, angry. I was amazed, the boss came running, and I asked him, "What is it, is this guy an advanced?" He says he's not. So are you an advanced man? No, he says I'm yellow. So what's wrong with him?- I'm sorry. He says he heard the results of his research, so he can't calm down. You've had a chance to see it here at the pay phone, out of the blue, but there's one problem. Dragan Todorovic can be funny, and I accept that, but he can't be pathetic. I ask only one question – what would you do, or remember that song, "What would you give if you were me?" [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-10-0.u14794	The word has been made by MP Jorgovanka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-10-0.u14795	Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Serbia, of the combined agenda points called – the selection of people to certain functions of the National Council of the Auditor's institution and the Anti-Corruption Agency, I will only talk about the choice of people in the Anti-Corruption Agency. How pointless all of our stories about this election are only told by the adopted Law that I have brought here to remind you of it and the key member who has been deleted from the bill, who has actually denied us MPs of the Republic Assembly, representatives of the people the right to choose members of this council. The proposal, which we received in September of the month, contained two sentences in Article 10: "Every promoter proposes a list of three candidates for one member of the Agency's Committee". The second sentence was: "The National Assembly selects one candidate from each list of promoters." In the draft law, MPs, on behalf of the people, had the right to select one from the three proposed candidates of each proposing party. Believe it or not, at the time of the promotion of democracy and the promotion of the fight against crime and corruption, this member has been erased. None of the authorities no longer propose three candidates, because they must not risk that the three proposed ones are not exactly his own, regardless of the party's discipline, regardless of the fact that no member of the ruling majority will compromise their career by voting past the proposal his party agrees with, so that all the story of selecting individual candidates is completely pointless and I will not use any particular name this time. I will call upon the dear citizens and ask them not to listen to what the government says, not to look and read what laws it brings, but only to follow what the government does. Looking at what the government is doing, who it suggests to function, you can get, dear citizens, a real picture of whether anyone is fighting corruption and crime, and you can get a very important impression, while the government is passing laws on the fight against crime, as it establishes bodies like the Committee on Conflict of Interest, while establishing and not respecting its Anti-Corruption Council, changing it by law on the Anti-Corruption Agency, which, in full capacity, will start working in 2010, in a vacuum between the law-making process and the formal promotion of the fight against corruption, will also make us laugh in the face of Djelic, Jelasici and 'the bankruptcy mob' and 'gratin case', and countless mobs in which people will earn so much money...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-10-0.u14796	Excuse me, Mrs. Tabakovic, one moment. Fellow MPs from the SRS, please turn off those sound signals that interfere with work and disrupt the atmosphere. I warn you to turn off the sound signals that are disrupting the atmosphere in this House. Go on, Mrs. Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-10-0.u14797	So, as the government changes laws, it establishes organs that allegedly fight corruption, Mr Djelic, for example, has managed to incasulate the abuse of privileged information, some say, of 11m euros. I argue that at the time of entry into possession of 9.99% of the shares, the market capitalisation of these shares was about 5m euros, and such a man can, tomorrow, by means of the power of money, which he acquired in an illegal manner, I say, bribe all those bodies that need to decide on abuse of position. What, then, is the importance of passing such laws, and what is the real intention of this authority to fight it? Only in the story of the alleged fight against corruption, because as long as the Agency lives, even with such candidates, where you don't have three and you choose one, you'll get into a situation where you have nothing left to accuse those who own our lives, but also the values that are being promoted in this society. In this home, two years ago, I said that we couldn't promote greed as the highest value, and while many of you gave me the right to not be okay, you, most of the people in this room, still voted for people who were directly promoting and greed and abuse of public interest. I'm not just talking about the Djelic case, though it's the most impressive. At the moment we pass certain laws regarding money laundering, we must remember that the property of 10% in the Meridian Bank, which he received from the Credit Agricol Group, Mr Djelic managed to make a payment of 9.99% of the shares, because he would have had to pay 10 when he opened the account to show that he owns the company called Sopar SAS. No, he didn't pay 10, just for the very reason he didn't have to legislate. So, what did we get in the new law? Those of you who want to fight corruption, at the request of foreign investors, the percentage of 10 is increased to 25% of the roles in which they do not have to be legitimateized to the physical owner of that company that enters the ownership of any economic operator. Is it called fighting crime or is it called hiding the owners who come into possession of all the values in this society? Will some new board to resolve the conflict of interest he then gave Mr. Djelic's rights fight against, rejecting Vucic's application to investigate conflicts of interest? And you, like me, don't even know until today whether the shares were sold, when the gentleman entered the government again, did he pay a tax on those actions to anyone? And you're still talking about fighting crime and corruption. You cannot cloud the fact that in a large number of cases you are fully aware of the conditions for corruption, and then you are building institutions to fight corruption and bad phenomena, by creating organs, inspections to be accounted for with such phenomena, and on the burden of citizens. In the same way, it's not a skillful relationship, it's the most direct link to the fight against human trafficking. The moment you promote money as a single measure of value, when you don't punish the way money comes, when the subject of trade and sales becomes both children and women and people, then you support NGOs and take action to fight it. Instead of having good, inherited, control mechanisms from organizations that we had, like the Social Accounting Service, where we knew how to track the flow of money, where we knew there couldn't be a young man or girl in town we don't know where he works or what he's doing to them, or what their parents do to them, and they drive huge jeeps and spend their days in cafes and expensive bars, and we pretend we don't know that money comes from strange ways. No, it's not an abuse of privacy. This is the need for this society to be accounted for in the cheapest way with obvious examples of abuse of public interest, which is largely driven by bad or superficial laws. That's why all this talk about the Agency that's only gonna start working in a year or two, about the Committee on Conflict of Interest, about how many cases he's had and how much money he's spent, but nowhere but a few warnings in the Official Messenger, no one can believe and expect it to be a serious and responsible fight against corruption. And when it comes to the maturity and experience of those who enter this counsel, with all due respect to all those who have great experience in life, let each of you wonder whether these mature and serious people do not have in their head the first law to be called—the mind to the head. Smart in the head, like a struggle of fear, like the last law and protection not to mind the authorities, because it's not worth it. What each organization has proposed for one candidate, it is obvious that many of them know about this law, the mind in the head and the nosing of the nose where it is not worth it, is my established fear and the reason why we will vote against such a solution. Thank you. (At the time of the presentation of the People's Parliament, Jorgovanka Tabakovic, SRS MPs were banging on the benches. [[Applause]] )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-10-0.u14798	Thank you. The word is from MP Milan Dimitrijevic, MP of the DSS. I'm sorry, the breach of the Rules of Procedure, Mrs. Pop-Lazic. I thought you gave up.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-10-0.u14799	We don't give up so easily, Madam Chairman. I considered it appropriate to warn you that, as Mrs Komic would say, you made a certain failure in the procedure and that I would remind you of Article 87, since you did not, as the National Assembly, or MPs, inform us who you invited to the session of the authorised promoters regarding the set of these laws that are on the agenda. It is that women and frogs are connected, but here there are different promoters, one of them is the Minister of Health, Mr. Milosavljevic, not in the O.R. The fact that he's gone, we didn't expect him, the right to tell you, that he would come, even though it would be his turn, but you, as chairman, didn't inform the MPs whether you even invited them. There are also MPs who are in front of the committee, some are there, some are not, but it would be good if they were and it would be good for them to always appear in front of the MPs and say a word about the bill. That would mean what you keep saying, the synergy of the work of all MPs, the responsibility of the MPs. We are filled with the mouth of such beautiful democratic some side words, which should be directed to the public that in Parliament and in the political life of this country everything is like honey and milk, unfortunately, it is not. It is shown that indeed the ruling majority, especially the Government, is not at all responsible for Parliament, and that is something that we in the SRS do not want to tolerate, nor can we tolerate. That's why I'm pointing you to Article 87's injury. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-10-0.u14800	Mrs. Pop-Lazic, here are representatives of the Committee on Finance and the Committee on Justice. As far as the proposal for a decision on the selection of members of the Health Council is concerned, the Minister of Health has practically merely submitted proposals that have been authorised by the institutions to propose members of the Council. He did so, so he couldn't make any particular arguments that related to those proposals. These proposals were competently done by institutions which were authorised to do so in accordance with the acts. There's no breach of the Rules of Procedure. If you're not satisfied, you know what the possibility is. Would you like to make a statement in the voting day? Okay. So, in voting day, we'll make a statement about my injury to the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Milan Dimitrijevic has his word, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-10-0.u14801	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, since we are conducting a unique search on the selection, execution and termination of the functions of certain working bodies, which do not have very few touch points, will be limited to the discussion of the formation of the National Health Council. So the first thing I said in my own opinion is that I think it's necessary for the health minister to be present here in the O.R. to explain some of the suggestions. As there is no health minister, I believe it is appropriate for my fellow Members and for the public of Serbia to know what the competences of the National Health Council are. This is prescribed by Article 154. The health care law. These responsibilities, which are numbered at points, have 11: to monitor the development of a health care system, to propose measures to preserve the health status and strengthen the health potential of the population, to propose measures to achieve the health care of all citizens of the Republic, to propose measures for the functioning of a health system based on sustainability and efficiency principles, to carry out the quality assessment process of the programme of continuous training of healthcare professionals, to give an opinion on the health development plan, to give an opinion on the registration policy on colleges, etc., thus, to point 11. Let's see what the state of health is in Serbia today. Why would the minister need to be in the O.R.? So, the first thing about selecting members of the National Council, you heard, has already been repeated several times that in a completely irregular and illegal way the choice of representatives of Serbia's dental chamber has been made. It's a start. We've been warning about this for over a year. When you get the minutes from that session, you will see that in these ballots, which is against the law, the names of the pen, that even the people who are not members of the Assembly voted in the assembly, that even a criminal application occurred in the election of the Director of the Chamber, about the appointment of the director of the Chamber for the regular professor of the Medical Faculty in Banjaluca, about the counterfeiting of diplomas, about the absence of the stamp of the Serbian Chamber of Commerce, which was reported by the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government. So that's one thing, and there are, I'm going to count them, exactly as many powers as the law provides, the National Health Council. What happened to the request and memo of the doctor's office, given Article 277? What was the constitutional court's answer to that question? To bring the law into line with the Constitutional Law. Is that done? It is not, for these very reasons, because the failure of the health minister shows what the relationship is and what the health minister's intention is to continue to run health policy in Serbia. What about the supply of drugs to the burden of the Republic Health Insurance Service? How do you form that price? Based on the average price of medicines, the parity was taken for three countries, for Croatia, Italy and Slovenia. Let's see what the contribution is and how much money is per capita in these countries and how much is in us. In Croatia it is over 1,100 euros, in Italy 1,700 euros, in Slovenia over 2,000 euros, and with us 250 euros. Is that taken as a parity for the supply of drugs? The other day, MP Vladan Batic showed one contract, I don't know what amount, which was concluded between the Republic Health Insurance Office and one house, the wholesaler, which deals with the distribution and sale of drugs. The contract was concluded in December before the adoption of the budget and before the adoption of the accounts of the Republic Health Insurance Office. And no one! That amount is over a billion dinars. What do we say about medical relations? We were all aware of a controversy between the two health leaders, the relationship between the city's health secretary of Belgrade and the health minister, Mr Milosavljevic. And, uh, what was that controversy over the press about and where it ended up, on charges, on threats of criminal charges, and nothing after that. The strange thing is that at a local level you have two coalition partners who make up power, a local government in Belgrade, who make such accusations. What about enrollment policy at our colleges? One of the tasks of the National Health Council again. Who's in control? How many state colleges are there? How many private colleges are there? Then we come to a situation where a group of students from a private medical school who had concluded a contract with two clinical-patient centres to teach practical education appeared to us a few months ago. That contract was broken unilaterally. What's going on with these young people? How are they going to continue their education? Will school drop halfway? Whose decision? By decision of the ministry, i.e. Minister of Health, Mr Milosavljevic. Let's see what's going on in the press. Is it possible that the chairman of the Management Board of a top-level institution, such as the University Children's Clinic in Tirshaw, will be arrested for tax evasion, and the chairman of the Management Board and members of the Management Board will be in illegal status for several years? Whose job is it to change such a board of directors? The Ministry of Health's job and the Minister of Health. We have three parallel health care systems in Serbia today. We have a civilian who's divided into state and private and we have military. It is constitutionally right and the Constitution guarantees every freedom of choice of work. The declared health minister's policy is that the private sector will integrate into the system. How many private offices or clinics are integrated into the system? How many of these clinics and offices were listed to be able to charge their services through the Republic Health Insurance Office? But we have one other thing, we have the appearance of evening clinics. An open question for the health minister – can the system not respond to too many patients? And it probably can't when the evening clinics show up, well, they can't do regular work hours to get all the patients checked out. Then why isn't the private sector integrated into the health system or something else? Why haven't we had a national health account in years? Why don't we know how much money is in circulation in the health system? What will happen to the health system at the time of this global economic crisis? What will be the inflow of funds into the Republic Health Insurance Institute when people lose their jobs massively? Who's going to make that contribution? From what will health care workers’ salaries be paid? What happens to funding those health institutions that went into local jurisdiction? Can these local self-governments at this point, in this crisis, bear that burden? There's no response from the Ministry of Health. Is there a health care information system, and the funds are received from international institutions? It doesn't exist. Who was in charge of that? The Ministry of Health. The Minister of Health is a minister in five governments. The picture of the current state of health suggests that health care is full of affairs. Brue's newspaper, headlines. What about the National Pharmaceuticals? What's going on with Tollac? Why don't we have homemade vaccine products? These are all questions we don't have answers to. The absence of a health minister here today to say and to remove problems and to encourage these people who are likely to vote, to say what is the task, to give answers, is the attitude of the government, or the health ministry to the National Assembly. It's a humiliating relationship. All in all, this advice is a dead letter on paper. The council will not respond to its demands, and when that is so, and no change is made, no improvement in Serbia's health system will happen. Unfortunately, Serbian citizens will still have to go out of their empty pocket anyway to allocate additional funds to seek health care elsewhere. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-10-0.u14802	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrievich. I give my word to MP Mica Rogovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-10-0.u14803	In a set of joined agenda points in my address, I will be the most retained on the Anti-Corruption Agency, i.e. appointing members of the Anti-Corruption Agency, but not individually about the members of this body, for the reason that in Serbia in the last eight years we have referred to many people, who are even now in very responsible positions, ministers, who have participated in various and numerous affairs, the type of 'Sartida', the type of 'cementare', and not to list them all and not to name them personally. Well, given all the known details and facts in the public, I would not want to personally stick to the names that are now on the table because this assembly does not propose members of the Anti-Corruption Agency, and in the voting process it decides on their choice. I think it's really useless to talk on that subject, given that this is stated, one with the other, in contradiction. I would like to remind the citizens of Serbia that the Anti-Corruption Agency Act is difficult to talk about with such comments in the Assembly and, please, to do anything to honor us so that we can talk.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-10-0.u14804	Gentlemen, please allow the People's Messenger to speak to us and we will all take care of dignity. I warn all MPs that they are under obligation to respect the dignity of the assembly. Go on, Mr. Rogovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-10-0.u14805	Since you can't let me do that, or you can't do that, I have to answer part of the comment. The representatives of some parties here, when they go to the media, talk about meetings on municipal committees and how they are welcomed by one man or who knows how many people, and here they can really earn and distract MPs of the Prosperity Group, Serbia, it's not their first time, and regardless, we're used to it, it would be illusory to move on in some normal story, as the MPs of the other parties have the chance. We probably need to move on in this environment, and given that fact, I'm going to continue my exposure. I would like to remind you that this law on the Anti-Corruption Agency, which was adopted during the previous year, enters into force on 1 January 2010, on the proposed amendment of Mr. Djorđe Milicevic, and is probably one of the reasons why all of this and the selection of members of the Anti-Corruption Agency and all other necessary technical preparations to be implemented within this time period, regardless of the fact that crime and corruption are booming, and even now, there have been major objections, not only the members of the opposition but the entire public. I have to refer to the Agency's competence for public reasons, which is: resolving conflicts of interest, keeping registers of officials and property of officials, controlling the financing of political parties, international co-operation in the fight against corruption, etc. the selection of directors and nine members of the Agency, in which it is decidently noted that the Director, including members of the Agency, cannot be members of the relevant political parties and are subject to all the laws which are subject to other officials, cannot perform any other public function, participate in privatisation, or must possibly inform the Agency of this, establish companies and the like. The Anti-Corruption Council delivered a letter to the government said one of the most significant generators of major corruption in Serbia is privatisation. In almost all cases it has been observed that it is a violation of the laws, the prescribed procedures, the existence of a conflict of interest in persons responsible for decision-making i.e. the corruption of civil servants. Until today, the government has not taken any steps to eliminate these problems, and given these facts that we have indicated, almost at the end of the first year since the government's appointment, it is likely not on the list of priorities of respect for the law and curbing corruption. I have to remind you of all the irregularities related to this segment of my address, and it's about the Privatisation Agency, which is that it has too many powers, i.e. It is primarily thought not of the Agency but of the Director of the Agency, then the absence and further criteria under which companies will be sold. The decisions are mainly not transparent, and they should be, one-stage in the decision to fire or write off debt when buying certain enterprises and firms, commissions from privatising natural monopoly, privatising public enterprises, privatising state property and privatising national assets, so all of these are recorded irregularities which are recorded in the description of the activities and reasons in the functioning of the Privatisation Agency and which exist today. What I particularly want, and I'm sorry there are no representatives of the Ministry, but I'm asking you a question, it's also one of the important irregularities in the bankruptcy process, and it's about the introduction of licensed bankruptcy managers and their large roles that this law allows them to play. Here's an example, I come from the middle where a company, the Inex Progress store, entered bankruptcy proceedings on December 12, 1999, and to this day is in bankruptcy proceedings. This is what I want to point out for the reason that part of the employees, which is about 260, has not yet been settled from the company's bankruptcy process, and the company mentioned has over 10 million in the account. The topic is corruption, bankruptcy is also corruption, and when you go out for a pay phone, you can choose the topics you're going to talk about. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-10-0.u14806	National MP Momir Markovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-10-0.u14807	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first of all, I would like to make a statement to the President. There were so many inappropriate words coming from this pay phone, that I would be the gentlest, from the last speaker and two speakers before him, sent to the SRS, and you didn't respond. You gave me a warning in time because my hand was under the bench, and here it may offend the MPs anyone, if the MPs are the SRS and, of course, nothing will happen to them. When I told you from the pay phone "Mrs. Chairman, do you hear what he's saying", you said "I can't hear from the noise," and you heard very well. I'm asking you to take a stenogram, see what they've been saying and on the basis of your actions with the Rules of Procedure. Let's get to the agenda point. We have here a motion for a decision to suspend the court's duties for three judges, two of them for fulfilling pension conditions, one senior, one year of internship, and one candidate for established incompetence. So, when someone turns 65 and meets the conditions for retirement and works in the judiciary, then, by law, the Boška Ristic board makes a decision on the termination of judicial duty. On the other hand, when you look at this proposal for a list of candidates for a member of the Anti-Corruption Agency, you see something that puzzled me for a moment. We have Mileva Gajinov, judge of Serbia's Supreme Court. The lady was born in 1936, is 73 years old, is a member of Serbia's Supreme Court, and at the same time you propose her at the Anti-Corruption Agency. On the other hand, Jelisaveta Vasilic, a lawyer and member of the Anti-Corruption Council, was born in 1940. I know so much about math, it's 69 years old. Mr. Ristic, you can propose various laws and, since you have an absolute majority, these laws will be passed and you will be able to prove that the country is a quarter, you can play all the laws that already exist, but the law of nature cannot play. So I'm surprised that these people, who are both at the end of both life and work, are proposing to the Agency that will have to deal with them and enter the fierce fight against corruption, which is the cancer of Serbia. The whole state is literally corrupt, from the top of the government. If the Anti-Corruption Act comes into effect, which we had in the debate the other day, I see that at least a third of the government will have to fall under the influence of that law. We've got a lot of people here that are proposed. I'll only stay for two. One is Zoran Stojiljkovic, a professor at the Faculty of Political Sciences. We have already heard from Mrs Vesna Pesic that he has five functions and we have heard that if he is doing another job, he must ask the Agency for permission, so Zoran Stojiljkovic, who has five functions. Zoran Stojiljkovic was celebrated by fierce attacks on the opposition, primarily on the SRS. When I thought about why you suggest such a man, who is already busy with both the profession and these other five functions, on the last side of his biography is said to be "in the field of state studies, democracy and civil society, Stojiljković is, as a member of the CESIDA Research Team... "Why do you think, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, why has this kind of cry lately been made by means of public information and misinformation on RIK, other than what they had great responsibilities? The DS has been preparing this CeSID for several years, as it is already being heard here that RIK will be elected according to a different principle. Now the CeSID will become the yellow RIK. Mr. Ristic, I don't think so. I'm sorry Mrs. Kolundji's not here, but you're one of the promoters and advocates of this, too. They'll be very independent of everyone but DS. In particular, Mr Stojljkovic will be independent! He only thinks he's coming to the DS County Committee. Everybody knows that and everybody sees it. The next very symptomatic proposal is the president's proposal. The country's president proposes to Mrs Sonja Licht, president of the Belgrade Fund for Political Excellence. Whoever understands will understand. He believes "the proposed candidate has professional and personal qualities based on which he can perform the function I have proposed". The only link between the president of the state and the proposed candidate can, of course, not only do I assume, be the joint boss. If we remember that the owner of everything Sonja Licht has done, therefore, Master Sonja Licht, Soros, is in a position to think that maybe the boss didn't order it to be done like this and to suggest it. I will not repeat all the functions Mrs Sonja Licht has performed or performed in the state of Serbia, but besides, the chairman of the Policy Management Board, so you are proposing Sonja Licht as a member of the Anti-Corruption Agency. To remind you, Mr. Ristic, of the "dark times", as you say, since the 1990s, of the time Sonja Licht began to act in Serbia, to remind you of all the support, material and others, which just through Sonja Licht Mr. Soros then referred to DOS, in all the aggregate states of DOS, whatever your name was. Let me remind you that the six billion you owe, when you said "only that in 2000 the Bulldozer Revolution" will succeed, then six billion from Hungary." Look at the wonders of Hungary, and Soros is Hungarian. When you did his job here, he packed that case with six billion and came back. Why pay you when you could do it for nothing? As long as we have a judge's shift, because it's easy to declare that someone is not in a business capacity, you know very well, you're a lawyer, though, a respected lawyer. I hear that you also handed over the last two "Borelia" bars to Croatia, although 30,000 apartments and several hundred billion dollars owe Croatia to the state of Serbia, i.e. the exiled Serbs from Republika Srpska and cities outside the territory of Republika Srpska. The Serbs are not returning there, but you are returning the Borova property very neatly. Just because such things happen, it may happen, if a judge is a little less dependent or independent of you, he will decide that the District Court in Leskovic has made a decision regarding the parliamentary mandates and SO Vlasotince and we will be in a situation where Gilas, a fugitive and probably heir to Boris Tadic, except that Boris Tadic has not yet been informed, inform him about it very quickly, takes over the wheel slowly and starts to sharpen his teeth, and of course, on whom he will, to the SRS. Although the SRS did everything in accordance with the law, a council that had no right, in the manner in which the decision was made, it decided to introduce provisional measures into the municipality of Zemun. We have submitted two requests to the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. to the Constitutional Court, and to the Government of the Republic of Serbia we have submitted a request. The government of the Republic of Serbia must react urgently and disintegrate this Gordy knot, this galanithia that you have made. The Constitutional Court must urgently assess the constitutionality of those decisions you have made, and until then you will wait a little while to take over the Municipality of Zemun, as will the Constitutional Court's decision, so will we, and until then, you will have to wait. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is what I end up with, and, Madam President, I ask you, in the future, to have the same archaic for all MPs, because this morning the 15th warning was made to the MPs of the SRS. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-10-0.u14808	Thank you. Of course I have the same archaic for all the MPs. MP Dušanka Plečević, please. You have a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-10-0.u14809	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at these joined points, I will talk about the proposal for a decision to elect members of the Health Council of Serbia. I already spoke on the Committee on Health and Family in my opinion about problems with Serbia's dental chamber because this raises the question, the legitimacy of a member of Serbia's dental chamber, proposed for Serbia's Health Council. What is the question of legitimacy? Because one part of the chamber's membership through the Stomatology Section of the University of Vojvodina, the Serbian Doctor's Society's branch disputed the candidacy of Dr Milorad Kovacevic as a member of the Health Council from that chamber. The Health and Family Committee and we, MPs, members of the Committee received a letter from the primarius Dr Branislav Kardasevic in front of the Stomatological Section of the Doctors' Society of Vojvodina, a branch of the Serbian Medical Society, which lists a number of irregularities in Serbia's dental chamber. This letter, among other things, states that the illegal elections were held on 13 October 2007 in which the Director of the Chamber was illegally elected, that the Ministry of Health was informed on this occasion, and that evidence of the violations of the Law, Statute and Rules of Procedure and the Chamber were provided, that the administrative control measures required to return the work to legal flows in accordance with the Statute and other acts of the Chamber. A number of letters from the Society of Doctors of Vojvodina's Stomatology did not respond from the Ministry of Health, so a lawsuit was filed at the end of 2007 to the Supreme Court of Serbia against the Ministry of Health for the silence of the administration. The letter further states that the Serbian Parliament's Health Committee is familiar with these illegal actions, and held a meeting with a health ministry lawyer on 8.11.2007. On that occasion, the committee refused to receive an illegal director, Zoran Stajcic, pointed to counterfeits in his biography and requested a written report from the health ministry, as reported by the media. The letter then states that in 22.11.2007, a false seal appeared on the Serbian dental chamber, which approved the invitation to the December month assembly meeting in the Kingdom. With a fake stamp and a cover, then, a record from the illegal elections of the October 2007 Stomatological Chamber of Serbia, which was sent to members of the Parliament of the Stomatology Chamber, led the members of the Assembly to be deluded by illegal authorities, that the Ministry of Health officially approved the report with a false seal, all in order to adopt this document and attempt to legalise illegal elections, open accounts and start up and charge costs for the mandatory license of 4,500 dentists. By letter of 28.1.2008, the Ministry of State Administration said that consent to the seal does not exist on the record, which means that a false seal was used earlier. The dentists of the University of Vojvodina, the Serbian Doctor's Society, sent a letter to the Ministry of Health in 18.2.2008 requesting the introduction of surveillance over the work of this chamber and repealing legal acts and legal actions certified by a false seal. The Commission shall send to the Ministry of Health a request for the implementation of the control measure, given that the relevant authorities of this chamber have not been formed. Then, in June 2008, the Ministry of Health was informed of a criminal report against a financial report by the dental chamber with the expenditures of non-existent authorities and false representation. Meanwhile, the illegally called Assembly is conducting amendments to the Statute and abolishing the democratic principle of elections for the assembly bodies and the relevant authorities. Public powers of the branch are illegally transferred to the Central Chamber, while the director's powers are being drastically strengthened and hundreds of thousands of euros of collected membership fees continue. The president of Serbia's dental chamber assembly was written in 29.10.192008... (President: Mrs. Plecevic, if you'll excuse us for a moment, we received a memo from RTS during the day, I wasn't in the O.R. when he arrived, but still, there will be no direct but delayed transmission, due to the game "Red Star" – "Azomaš", which is just beginning now, so there will be a delayed transmission during the evening. We're continuing to work normally. Here you go. Go on. ) The letter says that the president of Serbia's Stomatology Chamber Assembly warned the director of the dental chamber in writing on 29.10.1908 about his numerous illegal actions of four branches that have not formed or are incomplete, and suggests that the Chamber does not function according to the law. A candidate for a member of the Health Council, which is at this point in the agenda, says it is arbitrarily proposed by an unauthorized person outside the Serbian Parliament, does not meet the criteria, so it is a real danger for MPs of the National Assembly to be led astray when choosing the Council. In the end, the letter says, "we are very concerned about the persistent passivity of the Ministry of Health in terms of the obvious violation of the law, so before it is properly known. The risk of signing a compromised person, who falsely presents himself as a professor, director of the Chamber, is found on the licenses of thousands of dentists is unacceptable, given the divisive discreditation of dentistry as part of the health care work of the Republic of Serbia. Therefore, we ask you to request the urgent implementation of administrative supervision of the work of the Serbian Dental Chamber for a number of illegal actions under article 49 and supervision of non-intentional spending of funds, as referred to in Article 50. The law on health care workers' chambers in order to prevent further harmful consequences." In view of such serious and documented objections from a part of membership to the work of the dental chamber and the non-resolvement of the same by the competent authorities, the choice is at stake, as well as a contribution to the public health area of Serbia's dental chamber candidate for the Health Council, and therefore I cannot support this proposal on the selection of members in front of Serbia's dental chamber. In the event that it still comes to the adoption by the Assembly, a proposal for a decision, the Ministry of Health should, in accordance with Article 49. The Law on the chambers of health workers, conducts supervision of the work of the Chamber, to investigate irregularities later, given that this was not done in good time, so that the Chamber could, in accordance with Article 153(2). The Health Protection Act is proposed by another expert who meets the criteria.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-10-0.u14810	Thank you. National MP Petar Jojic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-10-0.u14811	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues, given that the items of the agenda are combined under no. 13, 14, 15, 16 and 17, there is little time for us to show the citizens of Serbia what these norms should contain and whether these norms will benefit the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. When it comes to the proposal to elect members of the Health Council of Serbia, I would remind you, because I come from the Southbanat County, that our fellow citizens from eight municipalities are tormented, from Pančeva, Kovin, Bela Church, Vrsca, Plandišče, Alibunara, Kovacica and Opova. What's their pain? It really is a pain in the ass when it comes to providing health services. They were disfigured, they were deprived of the right to be treated in the health institutions of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. in Belgrade. One of these, I mentioned this morning, is our fellow citizen from Kovina, Pavo Zagorac, who went five times from Kovin to Pancheva, from Pancheva to Belgrade, and could not get the direction to give him the medical attention he needs, his health is severely damaged, but there is no help. People of Pancheva, instead of going 15km from Pancheva to Belgrade to be given medical assistance, a decision that is contrary to both the law and the Constitution, brought by a competent authority, some republican commission, in agreement with the Regional Executive Council, that citizens of South Banat can be treated and that they can be given medical assistance in Novi Sad, i.e. in Sremska Kamenica, so severe patients who need dialysis and who suffer from the most severe diseases are forced to go there, and there are a large number of patients in this area. When it comes to the State Auditing Institution, let us remind ourselves that the State Auditing Institution Act was passed in 2005, and that the State Auditing Institution is not working yet. Recently, after almost two years, it was just adopted before this parliament and the Rules of Procedure on the work of the State Auditor and Public Auditor, therefore, of the State Auditing Institution. The current government does not want to see the State Audit Authority enter and control public procurement and budget beneficiaries. Consider that we have 25 ministries, and we have 111 different agencies, administrations, directorates and commissions that, according to the number of employees, correspond to EU ministries. So, in a little bit, we have over 130 ministries. They employ an enormous number of bureaucrats and spend budgets, but no one controls them. Namely, the State Auditing Institution was supposed to liven up and start working again in 2005. The government says there's no personnel, which is not true. We have people who are very professional, especially when the Department of Social Accounting was abolished in 2003. We have professional people in the IRS who can successfully perform those duties. We've got professional police officers working in business of economic crime. We have experts, however, the current government is not in the mood and it prevents the work of the State Auditing Institution. Fighting corruption and crime, it's just one thing, it's just a naked letter on paper. What does that mean? We have the establishment of a council, the Anti-Corruption and Crime Agency. Where's corruption and crime? The deep roots of corruption and crime, respected citizens of Serbia and dear colleagues, is precisely in those institutions that have the greatest power and the ones that have the greatest power, as well as those that have the most money. There's the biggest corruption there. Let's see if the State Auditing Institution will report to the MPs, because the State Auditing Institution is required by law and by the Constitution to notify the National Assembly, i.e. People's messengers. Ladies and gentlemen, the State Audit Institute must control 25 ministries, in an extended area there are 130. However, about 8.5,000 beneficiaries of the budget should be included in this control. Will it be able to do a budget inspection? Will he? Will the current government allow her to do so? The question arises, because from previous experience, the government did not want and did not allow, above all, the State Auditing Institution to do its jobs. When you see who controls the budget and whether we have public procurement control, and in EU countries and in the countries of Angolan law, from the shoe to the construction of the bridge and the factory, everything is controlled by the state audit institution. We only have 12 budgetary inspectors, and we have 7,000 tax officials who tear the skin out of Serbian citizens and charge taxes. The finance minister here today is crying, crying and praying – come on, we need more of these tax collectors who need to see how they will make a little more money in the Republic of Serbia's budget. And what he didn't say -- let's see if we can fill in the systematization, first of all the Budget Audit Institutions, which will control budget funds, public procurement. However, it has nothing to do with it. There's no control here. Look who is proposed in the Anti-Corruption and Crime Council, it is evident that these are not experts, it is evident that people in conflict with interests, perform ten functions, it is evident that some pensioners, some of them have nothing to do with crime, they have no professional experience, they do not have a certain certificate or capacity behind them, that they can be members of the Anti-Corruption and Crime Council. Ladies and gentlemen, no one has responded to the Azotara in Pancheva. Was there corruption in privatisation? Yes, it is. There was stolen a factory by mobsters who came from abroad, who was sold, stolen, disarmed, and was supposed to be released into production. However, ladies and gentlemen, it was stolen and loaded into wagons and sold abroad for 32m euros, and the state remained damaged, street workers do not receive salaries today. When it comes to the judiciary, and when it comes to the resolution or setting up of judicial officials, I have the information, which I state, that the case lasted 33 years. I don't know if the judges who first received this lawsuit are alive. Namely, who is it? It's about Dusan Milinkovic from Nikojevic and his wife, Rada. A 33-year lawsuit was conducted against the state and a recent Belgrade judge ruled in their favour after 33 years. 33 discussions were held, 30 were postponed, 40 were cancelled. Nikojevic Rade of Užica is 91 years old. So, I don't know if he's the live judge who first received this case into service. I want his health and long life, but I doubt if he's been running a trial for 33 years. The question arises whether a judge led this lawsuit or more judges? What's this about? A lawsuit was filed to compensate for immaterial damages, as their son died as a guard soldier 33 years ago, i.e. In 1972, just ten days before serving a military term. This is one example of how something like this should not be allowed to happen in our justice system, and we should take care of who we should take to the judge. It must be expressed by the committee responsible and by the competent authorities, so that this does not happen again. I'm sorry, I could talk for another two or three hours, but what can I do? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-10-0.u14812	Mrs Gordana Paunović-Milosavljevic. There's 37 minutes left for your parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-10-0.u14813	Of all the proposed laws, I will talk about the proposal for a decision on the selection of members of the Serbian Health Committee. The Health Protection Act, Official Messenger No 107 of 2005, educated Serbia's Health Council. Serbia's Health Council is a professional and advisory body, which takes care of the development and quality of the health care system, organised health services and health insurance systems in the Republic of Serbia. Last October, the government of the Republic of Serbia submitted a proposal to the National Assembly for a decision to elect members of the Health Council of Serbia with a proposal to, on the basis of Article 161. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia shall be adopted by emergency procedure. After that, he writes – a representative of the Government in the National Assembly was appointed Dr Tomica Milosavljevic, Minister of Health. I am asking the President of the Assembly - which is why it is written that Mr Tomica Milosavljevic was appointed as a representative of the government, if he did not need to be here and on the one hand respects the MPs of the ruling coalition, who chose him, and on the other hand to explain which members were proposed by the Ministry of Health? We have here evidence that at least five members were proposed by the Ministry of Health and that the said minister he could certainly disprove or confirm. The Health Protection Act, its Article 151 relating to the composition of the Health Council, says that the Health Council has 15 members elected by the National Assembly on a proposal from the Government. We know the government is made up of ministries, and one of these ministries is the Ministry of Health. On the basis of these proposals, we could conclude that one representative was elected by the Chamber of Health Professionals, that one representative was elected by the Serbian Medical Society, that one representative was elected by the Association of Health Institutions, but we are not clear, and here in the Law does not say, who chose two representatives from the ranks of prominent health insurance experts and health care financing? Also, we do not understand who it is that has proposed a prominent expert who is a top scientific worker with internationally recognised works or with a testified contribution to improving and developing public health areas? It is not clear to us whether the medical colleges or the mentioned Ministry of Health have chosen two prominent experts from the ranks of the regular professors of the Medical Faculty, one prominent expert from the regular professors of the University of Stomatology and one prominent expert from the regular professors of the Faculty of Pharmaceuticals? That's why the SRS thinks it was inevitable for the health minister to show up here and make explanations to these questions. The Committee on Health and Family of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia was sent a proposal by members of this council on 3 November 2008. However, the committee did not discuss the proposed members, because only the names and names of those members, their general generals, were taxed, but their biography was not delivered, so we could not discuss them. The members of the Health Council shall be elected in accordance with the criteria laid down in the Health Protection Act, Article 159. However, these criteria are, as the Ministry of Health representatives later pointed out, very subjective, vaguely defined and prone to arbitrary assessment of who is competent to be a member of such a high health council. It seems that in the election of members of the Council, the most measured criterion was political similarity, i.e. political membership. Because of this, the SRS considers the proposal to be poor, unskilled, inadequate, extremely discriminatory and against the interests of Serbian citizens. Of the 15 proposed members, I counted, six or seven members are engaged in fundamental science, research. The other members are, one is an economist, one is a senior nurse, it doesn't matter. There's only four clinicians. Everyone who works in the health care department knows it's the clinicians who can lead and manage health care. Unfortunately, today's chronic infectious diseases are 85% cause of mortality, and in the proposed law, we don't have any cardiologists, surgeons, oncologists, we don't have any experts from vital branches, the largest number of people dying. That is why we believe that it was necessary to discuss a little more competent and a little more professionally the members of this council. Also, among these members there are none of my colleagues, there are no neuropsychiatists, and according to the World Health Organization reports, mental disorders, especially depression, are estimated to be a global cause of disability and will be the second cause of mortality in both Serbia and the world by 2020. We therefore believe that this way the clinical group of medical sciences is humiliated and offended. This composition of members of the council cannot be adequately and qualityd to take care of the development of healthcare and thus this proposal is against the health interest of Serbian citizens. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-10-0.u14814	The MP, Mr. Dusan Maric, has a word. Here you go. It's just that the information works, ma'am, and I wanted to tell you that the Society of Medical College has made a proposal for two professors, so a very competent body.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-10-0.u14815	Ladies and gentlemen, in the reasons for making a decision on the selection of members of the Health Council of Serbia, among other things, says that – The Health Council is a professional and advisory body that takes care of the development and quality of the health care system, the organisation of healthcare services, proposes measures to preserve and improve the health status of the population, proposes measures to achieve the health care of all citizens evenly, as well as measures to improve healthcare. In line with these tasks and objectives, I will take this opportunity to ask the members of the Council to pay more attention in the next period of time, in the next year or two, in their work to health care in the area of the Municipality of the Great Plan. This is why I find the existing health care not adequate for the needs of the population. The Great Plan has nearly 50,000 inhabitants, including more than 7,000 children. Last year, care for their health was managed by four pediatricians. All four were deployed to the Home of Health, located in the city of the Great Plan. Due to the lack of doctors, health care stations in large rural areas, such as Velika Orasje, Lozovik, Milosevic, Krnjevo, Markovac, Staro Selo, who on average have about 4 thousand inhabitants, have virtually no single pediatrician. It's a particularly drastic case in Lozovik. Lozovik has about 6 and a half thousand inhabitants and the largest village in Serbia, larger than some municipalities, is 25 km away from the Velika Plana. Lozovicu is also gravitated by the village of Milosevic, with more than 4 thousand inhabitants and Trnovci with more than a thousand and five hundred inhabitants, meaning, between 12 thousand and 13 thousand people. Somewhere by some calculations that are approximately accurate, about a thousand and five hundred children. At this point, care about their health doesn't run any pediatricians. This is particularly difficult to understand when it comes to the fact that in Milosevic there is one of the largest collective centres for the accommodation of abandoned children. Three days ago in the session SO Velika Plana, the council of Slavisa Miladinović from Lozovic, informed the Assembly that the Council of Parents in Lozovic had decided that children from the village, from the village with 7,000 inhabitants, would not come to health checks in the future, for mandatory systematic checks at the Home of Health in the Great Plan. So there's one big problem. I am taking this opportunity to appeal to the members of the Council to pressure the Ministry of Health to allocate additional funds from the budget and ensure the employment of one or two pediatricians in the House of Health in the Great Plan to care for the health care of children in these rural areas. What makes the health care of the population in the Great Plan even more difficult is the lack of drinking water, which I've talked about here many times. For five years now, nearly 50,000 people in the Great Plana have been drinking poison water instead of water for water. In fact, because of the high concentration of nitrates, the water from the city water supply is not only not healthy for drinking and cooking but is not healthy even for washing dishes and swimming. The town of the Great Plan itself, I was also talking about, which has about 20,000 inhabitants, supplies a tanker more than 30 years old with drinking water, a volume of 5,000 liters, which is no longer in its state of mind than it is. The citizens of the Great Plane generally don't have the time or opportunity to chase that tank around the city, they don't have the money to buy bottled water and then they have the only chance to drink this poisonous water from the waters, which most of them do. Of course, this leaves extremely harmful consequences for the health of the population, especially for the health of the organ, the nervous system, and the kidneys. Otherwise, probably thanks to this problem, the Great Plan is among the first municipalities in Serbia according to kidney disease, according to kidney disease. The only way to solve this problem is to build a water factory in the Great Plane. That is why I am using another opportunity to appeal to this health council and to the Ministry of Health and to the Serbian Government to entertain this problem, to provide funds, to build a water factory in the Great Plana as soon as possible and to be completed as soon as possible. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-10-0.u14816	Thank you. National MP Mr. Zoran Krasic has his word, please. Your task force has 23 minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-10-0.u14817	On the occasion of this united debate, I will look back on only one part, which refers to the election of members of the Anti-Corruption Agency's board. At first, I must say that in a kind of corruption way, and this point has come to the agenda, and, also, in a similar way, the debate is uncritical, it seems to me, four or five points of the agenda, in order to show the business efficiency of those who break into the European Union, so they are unable to look at either day, or if it rains, just the euro, the euro, the euro. If you set such an important topic with the end of the judgeship, with the Health Council and other points, then you have shown what you expect from future members of the Anti-Corruption Agency. There are nine candidates here. I'm going to brief on most of these proposals to make these SRS views known. First and foremost, we have always opposed the inclusion of certain provisions in the laws giving authority to the working body of the National Assembly, whether it is the Committee on Justice, whether it is the Committee on Finance, whether it is the Educational Committee, whether it is the Educational Committee, whether it is the principle position. We have always opposed that the committees of the National Assembly, as working bodies, have the status of proposing something, whether it is a proposal for a decision or a proposal for a candidate, such as this case, because we believe that this goes beyond the scope of the legislative powers of the National Assembly and that the working bodies of the National Assembly have only this previous permissive power for everything that comes to the National Assembly, and that the working body of the National Assembly cannot have the status of a promoter. That's our position we've been representing for several years. This came from the first version of the Law on the National Bank of Serbia, when it was first established the responsibility of the Finance Committee to propose that it submit a proposal for a decision to elect the governor of the National Bank of Serbia. That's when "unpunished" went by, and then it became a manners, one precedent became a rule. Whenever there is no idea how to suggest something in the National Assembly, and what is necessary is to be represented, let's say, the profession in the proposal, then faster or better to go to committees, let's let the committee's proposers be parliamentary groups and re-deploy some land. The first on this list to be proposed is the candidate of the National Assembly's Administrative Board, Dr Zoran Stojiljkovic, professor at the Faculty of Political Sciences in Belgrade. Let me remind you, young man, he's got a beard. According to his biography, he could more like a consultant at this centre for peaceful work dispute resolution, because his entire professional career at the university and these scientific papers suggest he was a mediator between unions and employers. The board suggested that he take action and fight corruption. I don't think he can fulfill that task, not one that's from the Faculty of Political Sciences. The university has long been laid down by some who have designed his work and some experts, president of the EU's accession committee, come out of there. Wherever you turn, some of their frames are coming. It's a college where students are far more advanced than their teachers. Students in their stands where they discuss certain issues show a far greater commitment to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and respecting the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia than their professors or guest lecturers. As a rule, that's where they come out kicked out by students. Recently, Rasim Ljajic went very badly, as he could hardly answer children's very reasonable questions with his superficial answers. I'll talk about all those candidates later. The next candidate is the President of the Republic of Serbia's candidate. Imagine Milan Nikolic's wife. It's a private function. Milan Nikolic, the famous SPO-oe, once a public opinion interrogator. You know, in this country when you have nothing to put under your name and name, you say political analyst, because no one can verify what it means, or say sociologist, etc. His wife Sonja Licht, I don't know what function she doesn't have in this country anymore, but she never goes to check with the citizens, to come out by name and last name – I, Sonja Licht, run for it and so that the citizens choose. No, it has to be hidden. Then we have through it special contacts related to America where they go to school some staff, so Radovan Jelasic, and that Nenad Lj. Stefanovic. I could give you a list of how many there are. Dulic, the one who was president of the Assembly, an orthopedic that is now understood in environmental and construction. The building is understood by what it says – all cups should have a lid, because when they fall – people break their legs. Its humane structure, what it has produced, is bad for Serbia. Now he's in "Politics," in the newspaper list, so he's at the Foreign Ministry, he's all over the place. Where you need a reward, here's Sonja Licht to win the prize. She will fight corruption, and she has installed all those services to become an integral part of the structure of the Republic of Serbia. I get the impression Boris Tadic is afraid of her. If she thinks she needs some function, he has to propose it. We need to pass the law to free Boris Tadic of fear. He's got an obvious fear. Is it simply possible that there is no one but Sonja Licht? We have the problem of making public opinion in the Republic of Serbia the least affected by MPs in the National Assembly, and the most columnists, the most NGOs, the free-minded intellectuals and who knows who came from abroad. The next candidate, candidate of the government of the Republic of Serbia, Tanja Miscevic. The Faculty of Political Sciences again. The godfather of one of the Big Brothers. How can you not get rid of these personnel? Why is she an honest anti-corruption fighter in the country? The very idea of joining the EU like this, uncritically, to take everything, anything that flies can be eaten. You see that you from the EU brought corruption here and it became systemic with us. The next candidate, this is interesting, is Serbia's Supreme Court candidate. Two candidates have been proposed, one from the Supreme Court, the second is a member of the Anti-Corruption Council, a lawyer and a member of the Anti-Corruption Council. Now one question is asked – how could the Supreme Court propose a judge for a member of this agency? Just to remind you, we have some laws that allow judges to be involved in a state or a para-state body in addition to their appointment in the Supreme Court or in some court. The President of the Constitutional Court has initiated a procedure for assessing the constitutionality of the Law on Judges, and the media has already condemned the man, the judge. They don't care if it's in accordance with the Justice Act. No, the newspaper said it had to go to the pillar of shame and go to the pillar of shame, no matter what the law says. Then they remember it's in the law, and then we appreciate the constitutionality of that law. That's amazing what's going on with us. Furthermore, the candidate of the Social and Economic Council, it is the same for you as the candidate of the working body of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, Cedomir Čupic – "Resistance". How can the Resistance fight corruption in Serbia? How can the Resistance fight corruption, the Resistance, which was funded by the US Embassy, be a candidate in the elections and represent some of its political views? He wants to fight corruption. On whose orders? What will oblige him, Manter's position or the law that regulates the fight against corruption? Of course he will be bound by the US ambassador's stance in Serbia or any other ambassador. In his mind process, there is no law of the Republic of Serbia. I know that once a part of the "yellow" company fits this discussion and I know that you are against some candidates. I stepped on this particular Chedomir Chupic. I know you're ready to drop a few of them at the polls, but you have a back-up move. Since all of this is known, if they happen to pass, then they have to go to that address there to get their own opinion on how to apply the law. You have a Free Beljansky here. I think that lawyer's all over the place. You've got him everywhere. Wherever there's something to get mixed up he's coming, there's no problem. Finally, the central question arises – and that God gives these biographies, as politically presented to the public in Serbia, are you sure that they represent the 'beach of God' applying the Anti-Corruption Act? You can't convince me. I don't know which citizen in Serbia you can convince of this, you can only convince someone who is willing to have a pass when it comes to these candidates. The passage can have if these candidates say that they know European values, accept European values, is defined by Euro-Atlantic integration, all fine, nice, smooth, three times a day, is showered, kissed by a mother, all of this can go away, but these people can pass the law and apply the spirit of the law that you passed a few months ago in this National Assembly, I'm absolutely sure that they can't do it, but they won't do it. The president of the council is not in Serbia. I get the impression that all of these here are foreign exhibits, and there are five out of nine, so most of them, you don't really want them, but you have to accept because of those foreign controllers who want to control you over these people, so as soon as you raise your head, the Council of the Anti-Corruption Agency met and reached a conclusion. Dinkic did something to calm him down. That's the whole point. So, one extremely selective law enforcement, not even law enforcement. That's the idea. Of course, you don't give up on that concept. We'll probably have something like this soon when it comes to these two councils, one about the prosecution and the other about the judiciary, the same principle, all to be under some kind of control, and this is just one way to wrap it up in some neighborhood, to finish some jobs. I have to draw attention, first of all to the public, who will probably have a chance to see this in a delayed transmission. What's this about? It's about the so-called system. a polytryne action. For years, he was prepared, nursed, escalated on October 5th 2000, and later repeated. The system is this: a large number of media celebrities who are headed by something, whether NGOs, whether or not an association, if there is nothing else, a political analyst, a sociologist of the media, I don't know this, I don't know that, you promote them media, very often fall into opposition media space, criticise the DS, but when the time comes for elections they say, so of course, for DS, how about these others. You know, they're not the best, but they're less evil than the others. That's the influence. Now you have to satisfy the appetites of those who were in the first battle line, which were deep in the trench. They may or may not be members of DS and DS are just counting on that strength, not on the basis of a membership card, but on that synergy that comes, an interesting synergy, in-work-position. I have to remind you, in 2003, Cupic criticized the DS when the Resistance went, so that project failed, so that former ambassador went to Cavtat because he had changed, because he guaranteed that the Resistance would enter, run into DS space, and after the DS elections to continue with the new government. Catastrophically poor judgment. You have now inserted "Otpor" here – Srdjan, Jagoda has escaped, a poor girl, when she saw what it was about, Konstantinovic, Homen, he raised his hands from the bar, he and another left the lawyer's office to his friends and represent Boris Tadic in disputes. In private disputes Boris Tadic Homen represents him, his office, and he is the secretary of state. He's smart now. People, the Resistance is giving us lectures! It's a disaster in Serbia. "Resistance" giving lectures?- I'm sorry. They fought over money, remember when they wanted to slaughter, they fought. During that student protest, 'One Chad beat another Chad', and now they are new personnel, newly designed personnel and are now installing a new group around 1970s, at the city level, Gilas and friends who are supposed to replace Tadic and others. They're getting ready, first echelon, second echelon. Who made those echelons? Sonja Licht! It has contributed greatly to the creation of these new personnel. Read her biography and see who she's promoted. There's no function she hasn't taken. She has never been tested for these public functions and that influence with the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Who's behind her? Who's pushing her? How did it become a planetary force that Tadic couldn't even tell her - move a little, ma'am, well, you've had enough of these powerful functions, come on, cut it down! No, he can't. Why? The government is formed by a foreigner, it gets tasks from a foreigner, the government has to listen to a foreigner, it has to be respected by rich people who have funded this look of government, and the government has to suffer, and you, most of you, have to suffer this. I know very precisely who you're all running against here. I'm not going because of the basic correctness towards you as people to say, but I know, and you're gonna get this, but you can't get away with it. Take a look at your MP group who was doing everything with a work book at the Institute of Security, a security resort at the time? Fear and shivering. You can't even think about looking. You have to put up with it, you have to put up with criticism, because those who ordered you to vote, they ran away, they lead a positive campaign, they come to maternity homes, they take pictures with actors, with mayors, they don't get their hands dirty, they need to be a positive campaign, and you vote, and you and your neighbors get caught by the throat when you go home to ask you -- well, is it, like, "The Resistance" to control us, are you normal people? You don't have an answer. I have the answer! [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-10-0.u14818	Thank you. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the search is concluded, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 93. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) I conclude a joint single search on: a proposal for a decision on the selection of members of the Health Council of Serbia; a proposal for a decision on the termination of office and election of a member of the Council of the State Auditing Institution; a proposal for a decision on the discharge of a judicial duty; a proposal for a decision on the termination of a judicial office and a list of candidates for members of the Anti-Corruption Agency Committee. We'll continue work tomorrow at 10:00 p.m. Thank you for your cooperation. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the First Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 128 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 98 MPs are present in the hall, or more than one third of the MPs, and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending MPs: Nenad Canak, Velimir Ilic, Milan Lapčević and Radojko Obradovic. We move to 18, 19, 20 and 21 of the agenda – SUMMARY OF THE DECISION OF THE MEETING OF THE MEMBER STATES OF NATIONAL TRANSITIONAL AKADEMICS OF MIHAIL DURIĆA AND PROF. Dr Alexandra Lipkovski, summary list of candidates for the election of members of the National Consultative Council and a proposal for a decision on the discharge of Dr ALEXANDRA JOVANOVIĆ FUNCTION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE NATIONAL PROFESSIONAL COUNCIL (Common Single Search) Consensual Decision of the National Assembly to conduct a joint single search on the proposals for decisions and on the Assembly list of candidates for members of the National and Educational Council, points 18 to 21 and before the opening of a joint Single Search, I remind you that, in accordance with Article 163(3) and Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Since the total time of debate for the parliamentary groups is five hours, I find that the time of debate by parliamentary groups is as follows: The Parliamentary Group For European Serbia – one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; the SRS Parliamentary Group – one hour, nine minutes and 36 seconds; the G17 Plus Group - 28 minutes and 48 seconds; the DSS - Vojislav Kostunica - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; the Parliamentary Group "Forward Serbia" - 24 minutes; the SPS-JS - 18 minutes; the MP group LDP – 14 minutes and 24 seconds; the Parliament group Nova Serbia – 10 minutes and 48 seconds; the Salad group of minorities – eight minutes and 24 seconds and the PUPS - six minutes, and according to Article 93. item 3. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, MP Vladan Batic, who is not a member of any parliamentary group, has the right to speak once to five minutes. I ask the MPs' groups to file a statement with a number of MPs, if they have not already done so. I would like to inform you that the parliamentary groups have authorized them to represent: Zoran Shami, the DSS MP, MP Zarko Korac, LDP, and Mr Dejan Mirovic, the SRS. Does the proposing representative, Dr. Zoran Shami, chairman of the Education Committee, want a word? Here you go, Mr. Shami.
