ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-29-0.u13471	Since it's been 15 minutes since we have to start. Due to the lack of quorum, I'm delaying the beginning of the session in an hour. Excuse me, we need to determine the quorum. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think we will be able to continue the work of the Third Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009, because, based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that the sittings are attended by 100 MPs. To determine the number of MPs present in the O.R., please insert your identification cards into the MPs. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 87 MPs are present in the hall, or more than one third of the MPs, and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Dr Nikola Krpić, Riza Halimi, Laslo Varga, Nikola Novakovic and Sava Čočić. We move to item 2 of the agenda – Proposal for a Decision on the discharge and appointment of Members and Deputy Members of the Republic of Republic of Election Commission You have received a proposal for a decision on the resolution and appointment of members and deputies of the RIK members submitted by the People's MP, Nada Kolundži. You have received an amendment submitted by MP Zoran Ostojic on the proposal for a decision. I remind you, according to Article 160(3) and Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, shall be five hours, as well as that this time shall be allocated to the MPs' groups of MPs by a proportion of the number of MPs of the parliamentary group, as follows: The Parliamentary Group for European Serbia – one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; the SRS Group - one hour, eight minutes and 24 seconds; the G17 Plus Parliament Group – 28 minutes and 48 seconds; the DSS Group of MP Vojislav Kostunica – 25 minutes and 12 seconds; the MP group "Forward, Serbia" – 25 minutes and 12 seconds; the SPS - 18 minutes; the MP group LDP – 14 minutes and 24 seconds; the Parliament group of New Serbia – 10 minutes and 48 seconds; the Group of minorities – eight minutes and 24 seconds and the PUPS Group of Members – six minutes. I ask the MPs' groups, if you have not already done so, to file a statement, with a number of MPs. In accordance with Article 160(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search into the motion for a decision. Since yesterday, in my absence, a meeting was held with the heads of the parliamentary groups, which concluded that the Assembly would not begin work unless there was a direct transfer, I would like to inform you that this conclusion, in writing, was delivered to RTS. Let me read to you: "Dear Mr Tijanic, we would like to inform you that today a meeting of the heads of Parliament's groups in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has been held, and on the occasion of the official notice of RTS that on Thursday, 29 January 2009, the direct transfer of the session will be provided from 13.00 hours, depending on the completion of the sport competition – Australia's Open tennis championship. The meeting unanimously concluded that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia began its working day Thursday, 29 January 2009, at 10.00 hours and asked RTS to ensure a direct transfer of the session. Please, in line with the conclusion of the heads of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia's parliamentary groups, find an opportunity to ensure a direct transfer of the work of the National Assembly. With respect." Mr. Odalovic wrote it. I have to let you know that we haven't received an answer by now, and the transmission, obviously, isn't, so I'm setting a break. All the heads of parliament were decadent in the belief that it would not work. It was in my absence, I'm just conveying the attitude that you yourself have expressed. Next, I suggest that the heads of Parliament come to my meeting. In the meantime, the RTS response will probably arrive, so we'll continue at 11 o'clock, if there's any transmissions. Please, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's very likely that by 13 o'clock we won't have a direct transmission. We'll continue our work at 13 o'clock. I'd like the heads of Parliament to come to my house at 11 o'clock. [[After break, at 13.10]] Gentlemen, let's get back to work. I would like to inform you, and the heads of Parliament's groups will also be informed in writing that I have scheduled a session of the heads of Parliament and the director of RTS for Monday at 10 o'clock. I ask the heads of parliament to attend this session, to agree on transfers, delayed transfers and anything that has not been formally regulated, which may be a matter of agreement and compromise. Does the Proposer, the People's Ambassador of Hope Kolundji, want a word? (No) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? (No) You have received a proposal for a decision on the resolution and appointment of members and deputy members of the RIK, which was submitted by the People's MP, Nada Kolundji. You have received an amendment submitted by MP Zoran Ostojic on a proposal for a decision. I remind you, according to Article 160(3) and Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, shall be five hours, and that this time shall be allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs, members of the parliamentary groups, which I have informed you of. Mrs. Radeta, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-29-0.u13473	The reporting base is Article 226. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I assume you've all heard and seen, in all the media, one alarming news about baby milk "Aptimil One". It is that in Serbia, out of the unknown direction, at least we were informed, by an unknown customer, that a certain amount of baby milk, which has passed all inspections, is sold legally, until parents noticed that there are, possibly, toxic particles in that milk, namely some black granules that can't be dissolved. Generally, today the media also advertised from the Ministry of Health, but everything else is on it – they will, they will see, recommend that parents take care of themselves, go to the pharmacy urgently to buy someone else's milk, healthy. This isn't the first time, ladies and gentlemen, you remember the affair with the AD caps. It is obvious that the EU considers Serbia a dump of its waste and everything that cannot be sold in EU countries, it appears that someone in Serbia, is looking forward to it, and is selling it in Serbia. The question is, first of all, is it poisonous, what is it, how many children have already consumed that milk? You can't wait for the Ministry to settle down, let them give us, through the media again, some report. In accordance with Article 226, we ask that today we receive information from Health Minister Tomica Milosavljevic about what they have done and to inform us who imported that milk, is the milk toxic, is it only bacteriologically incorrect, how much of this milk has been sold and who is responsible for another scandal in Serbia?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-29-0.u13474	National MP Dobrislav Prelic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-29-0.u13475	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in view of what Ms. Verica Radeta has brought out, I am reporting on the basis of Article 226 and asking for an answer from the Minister of Agriculture. Namely, what it's about. As I've already brought out here several times, at the pay phone, I come from the middle where 40% of the population is engaged and lives exclusively from agriculture. I said that back in five or six years, that percentage increased drastically, that it now amounts to about 70% of the population in the Odjak municipality that deals and lives exclusively from agriculture. What I'm about to tell you is not only a problem of the municipalities I come from, but a problem that is evident throughout Serbia. In fact, every day our agricultural producers are mass destruction of the stock fund. Here, first of all, I think of some milking cows and breeding heifers, and we all know it takes two and a half years for a farmer to raise one quality heifer. That's how far it goes for people to sell rock cows at the slaughterhouse. Even in the Meat Industry "Matijević" in Novi Sad, a veterinarian was brought in to buy a check on cows if they were rocks. Please, Deputy Chairman of the Committee on Agriculture, Mr. Sinisa Stamenkovic, urgently invites the minister, to appoint a Committee on Agriculture, to try every possible way to protect our farmer and prevent the slaughter of cattle. What's all this about? Because Imlek, a company that buys milk, has in every way knocked down the price of milk and the last payment has been so miserable that a liter of milk has been paid 16 dinars, believe it or not. For an extra class of milk, which was paid 34 dinars, the last war paid to our farmers, and that, normally, with a delay, was paid at the price of 18 dinars. Mrs. Radeta told you it was powdered milk imported. I'm afraid it's only the beginning of everything that awaits agriculture in the coming period, that it's the beginning of poor application, first of all, of agriculture, of a unilateral trade agreement and that we'll just feel it in the next period. So I ask you to call the Deputy Chairman of the Agriculture Committee and call a meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-29-0.u13476	Miss Natasa Jovanovic has a word. Here you go. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, they have agreed to Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, until the opening of the search, applied for a word in writing, with a number of MPs, MPs of the SRS Group and the missus were the first among them. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-29-0.u13477	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, 11 May 2008, due to the collapse of the coalition and the fact that DS with the DSS could not find a solution to the issue of our southern province, Kosovo and Metohija, after the so-called so-called province. The independence of the quasi-shitar state, there has been an emergency parliamentary elections, in which citizens are deceived by the group led by Boris Tadic and the list of ZES, which reflects only seven or eight months after the elections were held, in all segments of our lives. Now it is clear to all Serbian citizens who voted in favour of Boris Tadic's newspaper, the DS and the coalition gathered around them, that they were deceived. First, because of the fact that there is nothing of free action, which intimidated voters before the previous election cycle, and first because of the negotiations and signing of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, which the SRS was against, because of Article 135 and because of recognition in the Agreement of independence of our southern province, which has been unilaterally applied since 1 January. These are economic experts, and from the SRS, elaborated in written articles, in their authorial works, in the latest issue of "Great Serbia", which is one of the most wanted numbers, since this tycoon party, which is a product, which is later, the collapse of citizens' will, I will speak to my father, and the characters on the cover of our magazine "Great Serbia", whose founder and publisher, Prof. Vojislav Seselj, is clearly in favour of this, as well as the members of prominent economists Prof. Dr. Sreten Sokic, Mr. Dejan Mirovic and others, that we now feel not the consequences of the global financial crisis, but of the rule of the DS and the group around it. For what? Because we warned you before these elections, which are the fourth in a row of five-octobaric so-called. change, that it will be worse and worse in Serbia and that it is a day or years. We have projected that this will happen when Zoran Djindjic said that Serbia would enter the EU in 2007, that about that will be the time when everything will be brought down as a tower of cards and that there will be nothing of it, that we will enter into debt slavery, and that this plastic money, credit cards and the debt of the citizens of the banks, which are operating here under favourable conditions and which are expensive for us to sell the euro, will lead to today, in a frightening, dizzying euro course, every citizen of Serbia feeling anxious and startled, and every Kragujevchanin – because of the fact that these people who were left without a job have no optimism, even continuing to be deceived, which is still the same in one show this morning, repeated Veroljub Stevanović, how we are going to produce five times more "full" than last year, as the other car is now, in fact, it is the same. The flag 10 is, in fact, the full one. Otherwise, we didn't produce it to that extent, or in that quantity that was presented last year, because these are cars that came from Italy's Fiat, which are just, as the flag says, deconserved and glued to the 10 flag. So, under the deception of Fiat, the SAA and the intimidation of the voters of a list called "SRS - Dr Vojislav Seselj", you won power in Serbia and then you started to deal with Serbian radicals. It was clear, but after the extradition of Serbian hero and hero Radovan Karadzic, that you will not be able to deal with Serbian radicals so easily. It was already clear that we would strongly oppose any attempt, a new assassination attempt by Dr Vojislav Seselj in The Hague, and then you resorted to making a coup in the SRS. These are painted tycoons. They are beautiful, as the Shumadites say. All the beautiful mother gave birth to them, and here they're all painted or painted. I see some were so thrilled that yesterday they kissed the front page of "The Great Serbia". They would have been better off kissing the front page of "The Great Serbia", because this "The Great Serbia" and the ideology of our party have led them to become people, gentlemen, and to present themselves as such in society and the environment. Now we have come to what is called further collapse of the electoral will of the citizens. Today I strongly oppose, as an SRS MP, elected from the SRS list - Dr Vojislav Seselj, and to remind you, Serbian citizens, you voted, when you chose the SRS, this is the RIK report, for the list that had that name and number 1 – candidate Dr Vojislav Seselj, as it was on the ballot. We won 1,219,436 votes, i.e. 78 parliamentary mandates. I've got to do another depression. After all the electoral processes, especially since the 2003 elections, or the constitution of the government in 2004, the rapper for participation, not only in the RIK, through the reciprocity of parties' representation in parliament, began to be applied to the permanent convocation of election committees in towns and municipalities in Serbia. Simplely, we felt, and the members of the RIK proposed by the SRS insisted that this be a reflection of the election committees in the permanent assembly, so the SRS, based on the number of mandates from the previous meeting in the Kragujevac City Assembly, has 467 members of the electoral committee in constant assembly. So it's more or less in all the cities in Serbia. That this is true and that the only principle for party representation in RIK and membership in the election committees was how many lists, i.e. the party won in the elections, says the data, and then colleagues from minority parties, SVM and groups around them, and colleagues gathered around the group led by Nenad Canak, because of the lack of their party infrastructure, and the result of their choice in the elections was not, for example, in the forest towns, in southern Serbia, in central Serbia, they were able to give members of the election committees in a permanent session, which was their exceptional right, they had already given those places to other political parties they co-operate with, most often LDP, led by Mr Cedomir Jovanovic. It was therefore clear that the principle of representation in the Republic Election Commission was managed solely by how many parties it won in the elections. But today, we have one strange, but a phantom proposal of the ruling coalition and Mrs. Kolundji, who didn't want to explain this, I don't know how, because once again, one of us would have to come out to show her these determined results of RIK, so how many parties won the vote, and again, let's say that the Shessel Radicals have 78 mandates in the Assembly, then, faced with this, to explain to us, may later return, from where some names came from and from where some suggestions on this list that is unacceptable. We, Mrs Djukić-Dejanovic, saw it, like all MPs, today, January 29th, actually, at 9:55 this morning, before the beginning of this session, i.e. The head of our parliamentary group, Mr Dragan Todorovic, has applied for a change in this case, as a citizen, or citizen, as Mrs Comic likes to say, Marina Djukanovic cannot possibly be a proposal, as no party behind the proposal stands behind the voter vote. Sanader, if he suggested, can go to the Croatian Parliament, and he can't do it here, as some want to take Serbia's warehousing. As for this citizen, Dejan Djurdjevic, he also cannot be a regular proposal based on these democratic postulates I spoke of, giving some other examples, as well as a certain Smiljana Stojiljkovic, a Serbian citizen who is likely to have the right to vote, cannot be in RIK because there is no political party behind the citizen who went to the 11 May 2008 elections. By managing that we are a responsible political party and that the biggest contribution, not downplaying the work of others, but through constructive proposals, through the determination of every little thing and errors in polling stations, has been made by Serbian radicals over the past eight years, and before, we have suggested that Mrs Gordana Stojicic, Predrag Lepetic and our former counterpart, the prominent Pančeva lawyer Bozidar Koprivica be members of RIK. Only if you accept this SRS proposal, Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic, will we know that there are no members of the RIK in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Don't make us make the next number of "Great Serbia" be with the members of the RIK that are the product of the tycoon Sanader or whoever, Manter and Wardsworth. We want to respect the electoral will of the voters. We want to protect every voice of Serbia's citizens and be sure that today, not only using this debate, but, if it is not enough, by reporting to the members of the Rules of Procedure and the Constitution, we will try to make sure that you, Mrs. Djukić-Dejanović, with your coalition partners, and because of the future regularity of the electoral processes, because the new elections knock on the door, by then, and physically speaking, are headed by Dr. Vojislav Seselj, as its leader, and who will step foot in every Serb village, in every municipality and city in Serbia, convince Mrs. Kolundzi to withdraw this proposal, so that we have a proposal based on the election results of 11 May last year. The electoral will of the citizens is undeniable. To remind me, this will end, if the president of the electoral committee, who is responsible, on behalf of the state, for the conduct of the election at one of eight and a few thousand polling stations in Serbia, re-records the minutes, commits some offence that has been punished by a prison of one to three years, the state will initiate proceedings against that person and that someone will have to answer. You want to legalize kidnapping and robbery here, and we won't let you do it. That is why it is necessary to accept this proposal and that honorable people, law experts, excellent lawyers, security people, who work in the interests of the state and the people, be a proposal for the composition of the RIK. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-29-0.u13478	Mrs Stojanka Petkovic has a word, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-29-0.u13479	President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I report to the Rules of Procedure, Art. 225 and 226. I want information or an answer from the KIM Ministry about the next one. Back then, there is a decentralization of municipalities in the number of six and five plus one old municipality, which is expanding, and that is the Novo Brdo. It is known that the decentralisation was done by Martti Ahtisaari, which is a plan that the Serb community, and this assembly, in the last resolution on Kosovo, has completely rejected. So, new municipalities are formed: Partesh, Ranilug, Gracanica, northern part of Kosovo Mitrovica, Klokot and the municipality of Novo Brdo is expanding. These are municipalities with the majority Serb community. There are supposed to be new local elections. It is known that in these municipalities, as a Serb community, we have had our elections and that we have our organs that are now functioning. The International Civilian Office, headed by Peter Faith, is working very hard on it. Preparation plans, programmes have been made, gone on two occasions to education and seminars, once on Ohrid, and once on Brezovic, where Serbs participated. A public ad, which they will participate in, is being called for for by the municipal council, offering them a salary of 500 euros. Because of all this, since most of the municipalities are formed in Pomoravlje and there is indeed a people concerned and there is no information about what to do and how to behave, the people of Pomorava have spoken to Minister Bogdanovic in October. I'll read just one piece of one letter, saying, "People are hungry for your instructions, they'll listen; just find the most efficient model to get the message to every village that's scheduled for decentralisation." To this day they have not received an answer, and I have received a letter and I want to address and ask for information – what will the Serbian population and, in general, the KIM Ministry do about it? What is important, what is foreseen further, the Action Plan for decentralisation says - plans for the proposed regulations between existing municipalities and new municipalities should be prepared before the elections. These arrangements should consist of the transfer of staff, assets and data, as well as the transitional rules on the gradual transfer of competences from the parent municipalities to new municipalities, according to a specific schedule. This is all done with agreement and co-operation by the Ministry of Local Self-Government of Pristina. There's one more thing I want to say. It is known that the vice-president of Montenegro's Parliament Rifat Rastoder came to Kosovo yesterday, at the invitation of the Montenegrin community of Kosovo, as well as at the invitation of Kosovo's head of institutions. So the talks are being held about the accession of the Montenegrin community to Kosovo institutions. The condition was that Montenegrins were not treated as... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... I end, it is very important, the Serb minority community, but as a Montenegrin community. Thus, when they enter the Kosovo Constitution, a double citizenship agreement will be reached, which means an agreement between the two states -- Montenegro and Kosovo. One more point, I have lists of people, among other things, Serbs who attended these educations. By chance, man, not one, but more of them from Kosovo Mitrovica, are Montenegrins. Does this mean that these two issues are related and that Montenegrins will, however, participate in these new municipal councils, in these new municipalities that are working on Ahtisaari's plan? Understand that this is the most well-intentioned, I do not want to create a discrepancy between anyone, but to unite together on Kosovo issues and start solving the problem seriously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-29-0.u13480	Thank you. The Belief of Radet, according to the Rules of Procedure, too.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-29-0.u13481	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the basis of my report is Article 226. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Yesterday, a colleague, Sladjan Mijaljević, initiated a problem here and asked for a notice regarding the attempted illegal eviction of the bookshop "Nikola Pasic", from the square of Nikola Pasic. In the meantime, we have received some new information and I would like to get to know, first of all, the MPs and the public of Serbia and, accordingly, to request information from the authorities in charge of solving this problem. In fact, a court dispute is being conducted here, but the unquestionable fact is that the facility in which the bookshop "Nikola Pasic" is listed in land books as the property of the Serbian state, such as the fact that "The Battle", is not known in which and on what basis, it has raised a loan of 20 million dinars, which is their problem, but on behalf of the loan, a mortgage was entered on that state building. The public defender is in charge of the dispute and is trying to protect the state's property. You heard yesterday that the first-degree solution was in favour of the Serbian state, that in the second degree the solution was annulled and that the case is now being conducted at the Supreme Court, but, however, someone is obviously in a hurry to end the case before the court is closed. The bookshop "Nikola Pasic" is known not only in Belgrade but also in the interior, when they come and when they intend to buy a book they may have only heard of, and they can't get it anywhere, it's mostly about historical books, books from a newer Serbian history, they know where to find that book; it's the bookshop "Nikola Pasic". We're afraid that's exactly why someone's bothered by this bookstore and why people are coming in, the bailiffs, along with the police's assistance, to execute a court order which, truth be told, is judicial, but if it is known that the case is being conducted before the Supreme Court and that the case is not closed, no serious judge would engage in such a job without waiting for that decision, especially if it is known that this bookstore, in various forms and titles, has been in place for 40 years. So twice already, the right 20-year maintenance, which the pre-exclusive deadline was right, could have become the owner of that space. This question has been addressed to the Minister of Culture, as well as to the question asked by the "Prosvete" union – is Geca Kon's bookshop finally declared a monument of culture and thus protected from any privatisations? We ask for a notice, and Madam President, we ask you to ask Nebojsa Bradic, Minister of Culture and the sponsor of Quiria, to answer these questions as quickly as possible, or to give us certain information, so that we can continue to assist the "Geca Kon" bookstores and "Nikola Pasic" bookstores. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-29-0.u13482	The Minister of Culture will be referred your question, i.e. complete stenographic notes. I give my word to MP Momir Markovic of the SRS Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-29-0.u13483	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, yesterday we had the opportunity to see the understanding and concept of democracy and parliamentaryism in Europe, in which you have led us for eight years, and you have never taken us. Yesterday, Europe taught you the basic postulates of parliamentaryism and democracy. They sent a letter, sent by the president of the Assembly of Ms Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, with the names of members of the delegation for the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, corrected and thus returned, and where Tomislav Nikolic, instead of SNS, writes the SRS. There are no parties for Europe, so neither participants in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe nor in all bodies, unless they participated in the elections and won a certain number of mandates, thus obtaining the right to be proportionate, in parliament, to receive the number of representative seats in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe and in other bodies. However, Tomislav Nikolic was a member of the SRS, but he was excluded from the SRS at the Central Homeland Administration, and thus all his ties with the SRS ceased, except for the loan and the debt of several hundred million dinars. So when it comes to this point of the agenda, about the members of the RIK, the thing is absolutely the same. No parties who did not participate in the elections can have members of the RIK. It is known how parties get seats for permanent members of the RIK and how they win for an extended composition. For an extended composition – when you report a list, meet all the conditions prescribed for the elections, so collect a number of signatures, verify these signatures, prepare a list of names, last names of all 250 MPs, bring it in, RIK adopts the list, and then you have the right to an extended composition. If this time so-called. Serbian and so-called The advanced party acquired the right to have members in the RIK, then it would be a great injustice for other parties; there are several hundred registered in Serbia, which did not participate in the elections. Why not, for example, Dusan Mihajlovic and his liberals, or "black sheep", as they called them, why do they not have the right, especially the parties that participated in the elections and did not cross the censorship, have not gathered enough votes? They have more rights than a party that has not participated in the elections. If this were to remain, then he would be severely damaged, for example, Bogoljub Karic, as the progenitor of the sale of parliamentary mandates. To remind you, the MPs crossed over and it was not known whether something was paid or not, but when Bogoljub Karic translated our unfortunate Dick by 10,000 euros, it was made public, it was even known to have won some black Mercedes, eight-year-old, with that 10,000. So Bogoljub Karic would sooner have the right than Tomislav Nikolic to have members of the RIK. You received a letter from the president of our parliamentary group, namely our parliamentary group, that in Decision II, indent 18, Marina Djukanovic, who was once a member of the SRS and on this basis was a member of the RIK, replaced by Mrs Gordan Stojčić, that in the 23rd indent, Dr Dejan Djurdjevic, who was also a member of the SRS, was also excluded from the SRS and no longer has the right to represent him, replacing the name of Mr Predrag Leprevic, a prominent lawyer and lawyer. The SRS will certainly not give up and I expect all MPs, both the positions and the opposition, to vote in favour of this proposal, to finally have RIK and a delegation in EU representative bodies in line with the results of the elections and in line with the structure represented by this parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-29-0.u13484	Mr Ljubomir Kragovic, for the sake of the Rules of Procedure, has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-29-0.u13485	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising the violation of Rules of Procedure, Articles 27 and 104. In fact, the chairman, Mrs Comic, missed two days ago, more specifically, on the Holy Sava, to warn, to give at least a warning measure to a quasi-chef of a quasi-political group located in this parliament. What did the quasi-shef say? He said -- how long will we, Serbian radicals, only verbally advocate the Republika Srpska Krajina, as long as we verbally only advocate Kosovo and Metohija and how long will we call for weapons and war, when we are not ready to send our sons into this same war? This is a grave violation, first of all, of the president of the SRS, Professor Vojislav Seselj, the SRS programme and the ideologies of the SRS. I want to remind this quasi-shef that he just ordered the last Serbian Radicals campaign to start with Kosovo and Metohija and we were 5. 04. 2008 in Gracanica and Kosovo Mitrovica. Now, I ask the gentleman in question, did he get a blessing from the bishop of Raško-Prizrenski, Artemia, to dissipate and divide among the brothers, among the Serbs, or to perform a function in order to unite, gather the brotherhood rather than break the brotherhood, break up the Serbian people? We then prayed to God in our most beautiful monastery, in Gracanica, and admired those frescoes, and those unearthed eyes of beautiful Simonide saw that we wanted to change Serbia, that we wanted Serbian radicals to finally come to power to realize their programme. Never in the SRS programme and statute, Mr Nikolic, did it seem that Serbian radicals wanted blood, war and battle. Then when it was meant to be, we sent our brothers to defend our brothers. I can remind you that in 1992, 17 Kosovo Mitrovica boys were sent to the Republika Srpska Krajina, and today we Serbian radicals, along with other Serbs, are defending Kosovo and Metohija. We are not just verbally involved, we participated in the elections and we won in almost all municipalities, except the Zubi Strait, a convincing victory in Kosovo and Metohija. We have tried and formed a Assembly of the Serb municipalities of Kosovo and Metohija. But what are you doing? You tried to translate a municipality, the municipality of Leposavic, that it was run by, like, some Serbian advances, and then the municipality of Vitin, and you sent your people to derivate these honorable and honest Serbian radicals, which at some point, with the euphoria of 'progress', were confused. However, the court ruled, all mandates were returned. There is no "progressor" that has any function in the space of Kosovo and Metohija. The second, which you also complain and pray – that you have one delegate in the Kosovo and Metohija Assembly, cannot be realised. You taught me that it must be done only by election and no different, not by buying, not by bribing, not by paying. We want to talk about both the Republika Srpska Krajina, and all the kidnapped Serbian countries, and Kosovo and Metohija, not in order to call for war, but to teach our children that they are Knin, Pristina, Prizren, Serbian cities, and you can propagate and teach your family, your family, that Knin is a Croatian town. I can't argue with that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-29-0.u13486	According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Nikolic has a word. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, of course, I will not respond to all the insults you bring here. You can tell me what you want, you started... I warn you, colleagues from the SRS, that you do not interfere with the speaker, I will be forced to make demands.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-29-0.u13488	... You started at the expense of the Serbian Progressive Party and you often compare us with Ustashas, you identify our functions in the party with acts in the Ustasha army. May it serve you honor. I recommend you fight against us differently. I don't want to answer what you're saying except for the people I value and when I was in the SRS, who I know when they speak against me, they don't speak with their hearts. Mr Kragovic, I resented you two days ago for giving up the fight for Kosovo and Metohija from this pay phone when you heard that there was no transmission and when Dragan Todorovic showed you with his finger to get off the pay phone. It will remain noted that you defended Kosovo and Metohija in the Assembly, even if there is no transmission, even if one journalist conveys it, even if you tell your neighbours in Kosovo and Metohija – yes, I defended Kosovo and Metohija, but there was no transmission, but I am sorry that you missed part of the session at which I said something that was only part of the reason why I left the SRS, part of the session where I said that Vojislav Seselj, me and Dragan Todorovic, told The Hague, in May – now we can enter the government of Serbia, now Kosovo and Metohija, will not fall on us the charge that we lost Kosovo and Metohija. Dragan Todorovic, as a man whose book is completely foreign and who has all the information on life from newspapers, came out to answer and, of course, made a mistake. He could have said – that's not what Vojislav Seselj said. You would have told me if he hadn't said, I would have said if he had said, and remains a dilemma of what happened, but he said – Vojislav Seselj said that Kosovo and Metohija had been kidnapped. Now, I ask you, Mr Kragovic, to win the most votes in Kosovo and Metohija for your neighbours in both Kosovo Mitrovica and Gracanica, where we started the campaign, perhaps because of that, perhaps because I was the leader of the campaign, perhaps because I was presenting a different programme than the one you represent now, to Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, you say – I belong to a party who admits that Kosovo and Metohija have been kidnapped. It's your ideology now, or perhaps you disagree with the president of the SRS. The words were confirmed by Dragan Todorovic. He didn't fully confirm what I'm saying is true, what I've heard, and I've got to say, which is why he and I have been looking at each other for an hour in the hotel room, not speaking a word, Dragan Todorovic and I, what is that? So that's what Mr Dragan Todorovic told you. I don't have anything else with that. I'm not gonna take it any further. With a man who makes you destroy everything that's right in Serbia... (President: Time, please bring the end. I'm sorry, some of them have been talking for five minutes, and I'm not gonna answer any more, there's no need. So, I have nothing to blame you for, because the moment you voted for an SRS statement that he was grateful for everything I've done, and that he regretted that I'd left office, you yourself admitted that you were cutting one hand, left or right. As he answered you – leave out of your epic poetry, Kragović. I'm asking you, are you on this statement that I dictate today? So in Ljubo Kragovic, I have great confidence. Let him talk about Kosovo and Metohija, let him even say something that is not true about me, I can forgive him. And when you say you sent volunteers and that the Mitrovica boys died, I know that. I'm just saying, there's something else I'm missing - personal participation. (President: Please bring the end, because you've been talking for six minutes.) ) In these wars there, and now, ladies and gentlemen Serbian radicals, personal participation, not the participation of neighbors and friends, but your own, personal participation by your fathers, your sons. (President: Please bring the end, because you've been talking for six minutes.) When you are ready to place it on the altar of your country. (All the time the speech of MP Tomislav Nikolic, the MPs of the SRS are banging on the bench. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-29-0.u13489	Please bring the end of the discussion, or I'll have to... (Tomislav Nikolic from the place: I apologize. ) There is a word, first of all, Mr Ljubomir Kragovic. Replic or the Rules of Procedure? Replica, please. Then Mrs. Gordana Pop-Lazic, head of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-29-0.u13490	I have to answer. We don't know what Mr. Vojislav Seselj told you, but I doubt those sentences. I know that you and I sat together, and I asked Mr. Seselj, on the same May, did I agree to form the KIM Community Assembly, and I gave him an idea? He asked you if you knew anything about it, you said you didn't know anything. He gave me an obligation and a task to have his freedom and to work, to organize and bring all Serbs together on KIM. Why didn't he tell me at the time – why, Kragovic, that you're doing some useless work, when Kosovo is certainly not there anymore, is not a Serbian issue? He didn't tell me that, but he even supported my initiative to form these congregations, just like you, two and a half years ago, supported me when I made my first proposal to form, to discuss the local election at KIM. You said then – they won't allow it, they won't allow it, but go to Gordana Pop-Lazic, see how it can be done, since Goca is an expert in local self-government. We've done everything, and there's been a local election at KIM. They were able to pass the country's election at KIM. We just don't want to see what we can do, and then I was telling you what we can and can't do, what the situation on the ground is like, in Kim's space. I mean, we've been on one line, but I can't let you tell me right now -- yes, you Serbs are just verbally in favour. In KiM, you got the largest number of voters you've ever received in your life, and you're never going to, or 77.5% again. It's bordering on the amazing, and you remember that. True, yes, against Boris Tadic, in the second round of elections, he won 77.5% of the election in the KIM area; two decimals, and 19 comma something Boris Tadic. That's true and can be checked in RIK, and now you're talking to all of us down there just verbally. We are not verbal about Kosovo, but we are fighting to preserve it, and we would have kept it, or there would be no Eulexa, Mr Tomislav Nikolic, if you hadn't torn it up, or tried to destroy the SRS. If the SRS had 77 MPs, Tadic could not have introduced EULEX to KIM at a small door. He had no support in his 126 votes for Eulex, so he had to, contrary to the resolution that was adopted, the last one in this assembly, against a decision by the Serbian Parliament, to introduce EULEX to a small door on KIM, and now the government's representative is complaining about why Marty Ahtisaari's plan is being implemented and why the Shipare are working on making the municipality pilot. It's precisely because we've been pointing out for days that it's not a mission that wants a better one for the Serbs at KIM... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... but it is a mission that needs to realise Marty Ahtisaari's plan, and Marty Ahtisaari's plan is, we all know what, it's work on the independence of the Republic of Kosovo, to give them some time to build these institutions and to bring these institutions, which are temporarily formed, finally to life. Unfortunately, one factor in what is now such a situation on KIM is SNS and Tomislav Nikolic, who have nothing to look for in this parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-29-0.u13491	He has the word of Mrs Gordana Pop-Lazic, as vice-president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-29-0.u13492	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, believe me, I would not have come to the replica of Mr Nikolic, regardless of his emotional exposure, had he not mentioned Vojislav Seselj, because he mentioned him, of course, in a negative context, as he is experiencing it, in a situation where that man cannot answer him. So Vojislav Seselj will soon, the whole Serbian and world public knows, come to the country. He'll come for this pay phone and then he'll be able to answer you for all you claim to have ever, at any time, at any place, told you. So that's something that's easily verifiable, we'll just wait a little while, maybe until May, June, at worst, until September. Why are you doing this? Because, I think, whenever you look at yourself in the mirror, you see a traitor, and now you are angry with yourself, and it is your fault – who? It's your fault, Dr. Vojislav Seselj, for you have betrayed the ideologies of the SRS. You, Mr. Nikolic, have not left the SRS, you have left the ideology of the SRS, and the party's competent authority, the Central Country Authority has kicked you out of the SRS. So you're an outcast member of the SRS. The fact that you claim to be a serious politician, believe me, you can't, because a serious politician has to prove he's an honorable man. You cannot prove it, and Vojislav Seselj has only proved by his hunger strike in The Hague tribunal how honorable and consistent a man is. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-29-0.u13493	He has the word Marina Ragush, according to the Rules of Procedure. I'm sorry, Mr Tomislav Nikolic first. By the Rules of Procedure or by the replica?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-29-0.u13494	I beg you, Mrs. Pop-Lazic, at least listen if you want to go out on the line. I wasn't making up a story about what Vojislav Seselj said. You have been exhibiting Mr Dragan Todorovic in your stenogram since the day before yesterday, with two truths and cardinal errors. One is – we are negotiating serious issues with Boris Tadic. Mr. Todorovic... (All the time the speech of MP Tomislav Nikolic, the MPs of the SRS are banging on the bench. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-29-0.u13495	Please allow us to hear Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-29-0.u13496	Let them bang, I said I'd talk about this session, and if they do, I won't talk about the next one. So, because I informed the party that I had spoken to Boris Tadic, I was sentenced to a curse, to the extinction of the family. (President: Please, Mr. Todorovic. ) You are now declaring, said the unmarried and married MPs of the SRS, you are now taking out this pay phone to have serious talks with Boris Tadic, or not with him, but with the DS. You are not thinking that the curse is universal and that it cannot be limited to the name of Tomislav Nikolic only if Tomislav Nikolic negotiates with Boris Tadic. The second mistake, in my statement that Vojislav Seselj told us that KIM was lost, Dragan Todorovic, took the stenogram, said – not true, said it was kidnapped. Then, with his great knowledge of history, he warned of the fact that Alsace and Lorena were also abducted, so they were returned to France without war. So, I didn't say that Kosovo and Metohija were kidnapped, that's what Vojislav Seselj said, and I'm saying he said "lost," but it doesn't matter. This was also confirmed by Dragan Todorovic from this pay phone -- a statement by Vojislav Seselj. Am I disfellowshipped because I left that ideology? I'm glad, I'm glad, because we're trying here to prove to the whole world that we've never been kidnapped or lost, but that it's ours. All this effort you're making is because we claim it's ours. If you claim to have been kidnapped, then what kind of fight are you fighting? Then what are you accusing of those who are saying they're fighting for KIM, who say they haven't been kidnapped, who are looking for a way to fight kidnapping? So am I disfellowshipped because of East-West ideology, because of the ideology that he didn't kidnap Kim? Did you have any other reason to shut me down? I didn't hear. (President: Please bring the discussion to an end. ) Just please state at least one more reason, that I really feel bad for being excluded from one good party. If you shut me out because of Kosovo, because you claim to have been kidnapped, and I do not, if you shut me down because I say we should listen to a deal with Vojislav Seselj and vote for an agreement that he said should be voted on, if you shut me down because I want to work with both the East and the West, I am so happy about it. Who betrayed the voters we spoke to in April and May in the election campaign? Who's now conducting the ideology that we held in the elections and won 78 seats? (President: Bring the end, please. You? What did that ideology look like? One outcry, by the order of Vojislav Seselj -- "Live Great Serbia", or an hour of explanation that we are imagining a future Serbia that will co-operate with the whole world? My conscience is completely calm. You can say I don't have morals, that's what it says about you. (All the time the speech of MP Tomislav Nikolic, the MPs of the SRS are banging on the bench. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-29-0.u13497	Mr. Todorovic, according to the Rules of Procedure, has the advantage of being head of the Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-29-0.u13498	Tomislav Nikolic, you are excluded because of the issuing of the SRS, because you have kidnapped the mandates of the SRS and formed the Parliamentary Club "Forward Serbia", an hour and a while after a statement to all MPs that you will never share, rip the party, call for anyone to join you. Among other things, you had a statement from one of the MPs you deceived, who said it right away, and at a press conference, you told you several times after this pay phone. There's one problem, my own problem when it comes to you. There is one Tomislav Nikolic until September and Tomislav Nikolic in these last days. Something terrible has changed. I never knew Tomislav Nikolic who was able to attack a man who was in prison, a man who was sitting, who looked into his eyes and wasn't telling the truth. I never knew a man like that. I've known someone else who I've spent a lot of time with, enjoying this society, but it's amazing that this is happening right now. He says Tomislav Nikolic da Dragan Todorovic is getting his education and information from newspaper articles. For a smart man, that's enough. It's not worth the whole library to anyone. A fool all his life remains a fool. As for Tomislav Nikolic, I think I should think about it. Smarter and more educated? I'm enough for Tomislav Nikolic and he doesn't need me at all. Also, I see that you from the SNS are speaking to Dragan Todorovic as truck drivers. I'm proud of it. I've been in trucks for many years, and I've been doing it relatively successfully. The most successful is that no one can come and say that I deceived him, deceived him, or that in any way in my business I failed the rules of conduct. You know, there are some things about truckers that are generally known, which is solidarity, courage. You've had a chance to read in the papers, since it's not in the books yet, about this bus crash, when they're just thanks to the courage of the driver who was driving the bus saved many lives on the bus. (President: Time. I'm done. There's another rule for drivers. It says, "Some things don't kill you, it's only a question of which side they're going to turn you on."
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-29-0.u13499	Mr Tomislav Nikolic. I'd like to ask you to return to the agenda. Please don't disturb the speaker.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-29-0.u13500	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I have never attacked Vojislav Seselj. He ordered you to curse my grandchildren. You'll never hear from me to lie about him, to make up that he said something he wasn't, to say he was wrong. He dictated how to curse my grandchildren. One is there, which has a recording tape, remembers from word to word, and two or three have written to read it here. So I'm not dealing with Vojislav Seselj. When he gets back, he'll have a chance for political megdans. Don't get too excited about his political return, because it's bringing you back to 1990, and it's bringing you back to negotiations about money and all that. That's not too interesting to me. I'm even a better driver than you, Mr. Todorovic. Don't tell me about driving anything. One of the worst accidents I've ever had in my life was when you drove me. That accident was your fault, and you know it. So, everyone's carrying their burden. You can't load me more than what I've loaded myself when I've had to get out of the party I've raised for 18 years, to leave it to you, to the individuals of you, who haven't installed any stones in it. I'm listening to some kids here who talk bad about me. They have no reason except to like those who lead all this, to be pleased with them, not to be warned by someone in the Messenger's group and to say, "Why don't you knock, which you don't tell him is a traitor, which you don't tell him is the chief." That's what you brought down the fight against SNS and Tomislav Nikolic. That's why I'm not answering you. You still have a chance to iron out some of the mandates you're using. Will you win the same number of seats this way? Would you maybe turn it up? Are you the strength to defeat these yellow ones by strangling them for 20 days around the budget, and 21 days to make a deal, to take what you asked for and get out of the O.R.? I don't want to do that. I'm interested in when G17 plus will leave the government for fraud in Kragujevac, when, because of the bonds, he will leave the government. I'm interested in when Boris Tadic will respond because he can get gas, and the energy ministry can't. These are the topics for which the SNS exists, and you exist because of me, to attack Tomislav Nikolic and SNS. (President: Time. ) When we reach the Republic Election Commission, we will see what nepotism there is and how much money some members of your families make annually because they are members of the RIK. (All the time the speech of MP Tomislav Nikolic, the MPs of the SRS are banging on the bench. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-29-0.u13501	Mr. Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-29-0.u13502	I didn't know this Tomislav Nikolic. Just as he claims not to attack Vojislav Seselj, that he did not mention Vojislav Seselj, the best evidence of what Tomislav Nikolic had become is what he said about the car accident and about who was better or worse driver. It's not measured by a pay phone, it's measured by hundreds of thousands of miles that someone has behind the wheel and cars and trucks. He's talking about a man I'd happily followed all these years ago. We've had a car accident where he's hurt too, and he knows that I haven't tried one single moment, it's true that I'm guilty, but I haven't tried to avoid responsibility, which is objective, legal. I didn't call, when the time came, I ended my term, I went to court, I said the matter was over, the sentence was decided, and I finished the job. But I'm not going to tell you about Tomislav Nikolic's ability as a driver and how many car accidents he's had, because I'd go down to his level. I would just remind him of how many professional drivers "formule" crashed, had an accident, which doesn't say bad drivers, but that many times on the road, or on the wheels, decide some things we can't influence, it's something beyond our means. Don't do it willingly, with intent. That's why there's a driving problem. Tomislav Nikolic, when there is no argument, escapes the hall, or is invited by Vukic to recommend what he will say. The main problem for which he behaves is the influence of Alexander Vukic, which he is unable to repeat literally, but must say what Alexander Vukic tells him. His nature complains, he's known from the opposition, that he's not only from the SRS, no one knows this Tomislav Nikolic, because he's just a speaker, and the microphone is somewhere else, and he's not able, yet, to speak from the heart... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... but he's repeating this the way he's managed to remember it. However, when it comes to Vojislav Seselj and his conviction regarding Vojislav Seselj, it says something else, that there is someone who informs Tomislav Nikolic, which is interesting. The court has been charged against Vojislav Seselj. Some have sent Vojislav Seselj to The Hague, and others, perhaps, insist on keeping Vojislav in The Hague for as long as possible. I was late for the beginning of the session, because I followed the trial of Vojislav Seselj, and this witness who came, like those before him, experienced a complete fiasco. He showed... (President: Time, fifth minute you speak.) )......................................................................................................... Allow me, on a few documents, that they were falsified by The Hague prosecution, to instruct witnesses, and Tomislav Nikolic says we are not looking forward to the return of Vojislav Seselj. Every honest and honest Serb and man is looking forward to the return of an innocent man, who has managed to prove that The Hague court is a political creation and that it was created only for the trial and condemnation of Serbs.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-29-0.u13503	Mrs. Marina Ragush has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-29-0.u13504	Madam Chairman, thank you. I am reporting on the basis of Article 104, because the dignity of the SRS Parliament Club, of all people who voted in Serbia for the SRS electoral list on 11 May 2008 -- Dr Vojislav Seselj -- is being collapsed daily, and because I think this really has to end somewhere, because this problem that has arisen and the illegal situation within the Serbian Parliament is being transferred to the ground. There are really terrible things going on in the field, and what is the ruling majority's job, which is power in Serbia, is to solve this problem to the end. As you can see, the work of all institutions has been blocked, because one faction has been singled out, they've gone completely the opposite way; they've found certain programming goals that are their future, possibly, ideology, because they don't have it now, or we don't recognize it, and it's not disputed. Gentlemen, I must tell you that I am not at all happy that you left the SRS and I am not at all happy that this happened to the opposition scene in Serbia, because, whether you wanted it or not, you helped Washington and Brussels to implement the most terrible plans for the Serbian people's occupation, in close Serbia, within the Serbia border. What I must also say, I wish you, indeed, all possible happiness in the upcoming elections and if there is a will in the voter, if they recognize in you a force that can carry out what your programming goals are, the SRS will first come out and congratulate you on every mandate won, and there is nothing disputed. Until that, gentlemen of the elderly, happens, you are, however, only a faction, you have no legitimacy to exist in Parliament. We think that, in certain places, we have submitted certain requirements and we hope that the democratic government in Serbia will show its true face and only follow what is democratic procedure. What's most important, I expected Mr. Nikolic to be there, I'm not inclined to speak in absentia, but I am directed and I believe that he will hear what I'm about to say. What happened with Mr. Ljuba Kragovic two days ago, I challenged it because I expressed our political position on why you, in fact, left the SRS and thus weakened the strongest opposition party in Serbia and, of course, the occupation of Kosovo. Then Mr. Nikolic and I, unfortunately, entered some sort of controversy in a specific way, and I and Mr. Nikolic will never enter the personal controversy, because I don't know, in principle, a man. If we look at the stenograms from two days ago, we'll see that Mr. Nikolic, since I claimed that he, visiting on one show, said they formed a party without ideology, told me it wasn't true. He repeated that in front of the press. I'm trying to make everything I say about this pay phone, let me make a mistake, but I don't have a problem with apologizing, being justified and justified. Mr. Nikolic, visiting "The Imprint of the Week", on September 15th 2008, at Mrs. Olije Bećković, who speaks for a professional, said, on the question... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... I apologize, just to finish the thought – is the ideology of your new party a great Serbia, stands in stenograms, on the official site B92, said – our party has no ideology, has a programme. So much for who serves the truths and who serves the truths. The highlight of everything, what should be the political climate in Serbia, is that we are not enemies, people who will spread hatred; political opponents – yes, who will conflict ideas. What we expect for this payphone, especially from the Chetnik Duke, is a little more honor and not to hit a bound man, who is not at the moment to respond. Thank you, and I apologize for this overrun.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-29-0.u13505	Miss Natasa Jovanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-29-0.u13506	Mrs Djukic - Dejanovic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we, some who participate in the active political life and in the work of this Parliament, more or less, have known each other for years. However, besides this all-recognizable ideology, now and with our friends in the world, the ideology of Serbian nationalism, which Dr Vojislav Seselj, our president, in The Hague tribunal, we are recognizable by that, and you and other colleagues, here, and Mr Ostojić of the LDP, and young colleague Vuk of the DS, which we print what we say, and especially everything that has ever been said by Professor Vojislav Seselj. Since the first day he went to Haki and Hamdi Pozderac, in the 1980s, it is published in the titles of his books, which are read and those first editions, and especially this new one – "The Failing Publishing of Tomislav Nikolic", "Serbian Baron Minhauzen, Alexander Vukic" and all these titles that we are happy to search for and print in the edition of the SRS. I'm sorry that Mr. Todorovic came out, because he was invited to go to the cabinet and give a statement to the press, but he's a modest man, so he won't brag. When we talk about this, when this one says that Mr. Todorovic is being informed from the newspapers and that his book is on the side, I can guarantee you that the book in question has not been taken into his hands for 10 years. Some of us, even who blaspheme Christianity and our church, found it in the cabinet when we had to avenge it, to enter the legal group of the SRS. How did those books get there, as well as Filip Stojanović, and Mr Boris Aleksic, and myself. That's what he tells the man, who's a graduate engineer for the organization. Since Mr. Todorovic won't talk about these early works, as we politicians like to say, here, I'll say. In all the titles and books of our president, which we are happy to read, it is to me, somehow, that I came from that mile to the SRS, the most beloved "Serbian Chetnik Movement". In that book, Dr Vojislav Seselj, in addition to the first meetings of the Serbian Free movement, last Friday marked the nineteenth anniversary of our party's existence, published stenograms from the first meetings, which were held in the semi-legals, at the time both Vuk Draskovic and Bogoljub Pejčić and others, who later separated with Draskovic, were in our party. I remember one such meeting at the house of Bogoljub Pejcic, who today, otherwise, has a trial with former cabinet chief Zoran Djindjic, Bebo Popovic, and Mr Mircic will be happy to testify in the process against Bogoljub Pejcic. We always want the truth to be revealed. I remember that Vuk Draskovic then said, as the meeting was about to begin – he entered the door of a respected entrepreneur, Mr Dragan Todorovic. Mr. Todorovic, who proudly points out that the driver and truck driver, in addition to being a graduate engineer for the organisation of work, was then, for his political, like-minded people, someone involved in entrepreneurship. You know, for someone who, in his name and reputation, first of all, Dr Vojislav Seselj, and then all the people who, stone by stone, as this unfortunate Nikolic likes to say, have built in the SRS, now have the opportunity, first of all, to give him tycoons Manter and Wardsworth to pay his contemporaries, his brothers and sisters, to speak in such a blasphemous way about his sisters from the SRS today, I no longer have any comment. I am, personally, proud that today, rock by rock, as a contribution to the development of the SRS, especially in recent months, were given by Master Martinović and Dragan Stevanovic, and Elena Christmas-Taljan, and Mr Vladjan Jeremic, and Master Dejan Mirović, and Marina Toman, and Srboljub Živanovic, and Dragan Acimovic, and all others whom you may not have known, Miss Lidija Dimitrijevic and anyone who sees today that the SRS is a party of honorable people, a team of responsible people, who are ready to return their president to the country.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-29-0.u13507	National MP Sreto Peric has a word. This is a departure from the agenda theme.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-29-0.u13508	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam President, the MPs of the SRS want to talk exclusively about issues that are on the agenda. In addition to the topics that are on the agenda, we want to talk about how we can all solve Serbia's citizens' problems together, which are very large at this point. I have a request to make to you. You are in communication with the President of the Republic, with the prime minister of this government, so try to solve these problems. The SRS doesn't have any problems. It's true, she had it in early September, and she solved it very successfully. If you don't know how these problems can be solved, to unblock the work of this parliament, if you don't want to, or you want to, but you don't have enough expertise, wisdom, please contact someone from the SRS; because of the citizens of Serbia, we want to make a contribution and to draw the last atom and strength and knowledge from ourselves and focus on a better life of citizens. Mr Tomislav Nikolic, he's not here, but I have a few words to say. As a member of the SRS, I want his family to increase to the number he wants it to be. He doesn't have any problems with the members of the SRS, maybe one day he'll have problems with money, with his security or his morals, which he doesn't like to talk about, but that's all his stuff. When Mr Dragan Todorovic pointed out that the party was led by Aleksandar Vukic instead, that is not our problem either. But you see one coincidence, the first said Aleksandar Vukic, or little Vukic, as some like to call him, that the SRS betrayed Professor Vojislav Seselj, and then Tomislav Nikolic, twice in a row, used those words after this speaker. You know, dear colleagues, what it reminds me of -- a child who is raised by parents, successfully mastered by high school, then educated in college, and when all this is over, it tells its parents that they have betrayed him. That's not possible. I want to send one message to those who are deluded – we do not want us from the SRS to deal with Tomislav Nikolic, it is a big problem between DS and Boris Tadic; they made him, they gave birth, let them rock him now, let them solve the problem. To the citizens of Serbia, who are living in great error at this moment, I would like to order the following, of course, to those who think in the way I am about to say -- if they want not to represent the interests of Serbian citizens, that part by part of the territory be handed over, that from day to day Serbian citizens live badly, let them go to the DS. If they want to try to preserve the territorial integrity and sovereignty of our country, to try to do something together for the standard and for the improvement of Serbian citizens, the SRS is open to them. In the end, just to say one thing, Dr Vojislav Seselj is one, and Tomislav Nikolic is poor, at least according to how he is acting now.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-29-0.u13509	Mr. Kragovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-29-0.u13510	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising a breach of Article 104. The Rules of Procedure, because from the previous speaker, in fact, Tomislav Nikolic, the false head of the false political party, I hear a statement – I have never attacked Professor Vojislav Seselj. It's not the point of attacking. He can't, and he can't physically attack him. Prof. Dr. Vojislav Seselj is in The Hague and he defends himself there, and he defends Serbia from these occupations who want evil to Serbia and the Serbian people. What is the point, when it attacks ideology, the program, the membership of the SRS, it is identified by the attack on Professor Vojislav Seselj. I want to point out that it's a shame for someone to come to Kosovo and recruit members of the SRS, councilmen, to promise them towers and cities, hills and valleys, which I know, he accepts, the poor guy, and he moves to the SNS, and then he tries to pull a few more people back. It's an ungrateful job, unworthy of an honorable and honest man. It is also unworthy to ask – let's make a story, so that there may be at least one delegate in the Serbian Assembly. It's impossible to be, they didn't participate in the election. The dilemma has been here for months, since September, whether the mandates belong to the SRS or belong to the SNS. It can be solved by one move. There were elections, there were beliefs left that were issued to the MPs, let them bring these beliefs here. If there is any assurance of a MP who is a member of the SNS, he will be an MP. However, such conviction does not exist. They all have the credentials of the SRS - Professor Vojislav Seselj, but these beliefs are no longer valid. They are excluded from the party by the decision of the SRS, which is one of the conditions for ending their mandate in the National Assembly. That is why the law must also be respected if they have ceased their mandate. The moment these advances bring confidence where it says – SNS, name and last name, they will then be Members of the people. As long as they don't have such confidence, they can't be, they're false representatives, because they represent false radicals, and now, we've seen through the documents, and the Council of Europe points to that. However, there is no one to point this out to the majority who should solve the problem and finally be in that assembly as the citizens wanted in the May 11th elections. Once again, I would like to tell Mr Nikolic – while he had the story as a Serbian radical, he was great and everyone appreciated him and respected him. Now, as a forwarder, there is no story, except that it presents some events in private life, which is what the evil aunt or evil liver uses, according to the Serbian people.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-29-0.u13511	Representative of the SRS Group, Mr Martinovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-29-0.u13512	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, I think that you, Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic, as president of the National Assembly, had to react before the debate on the agenda at all, to the statement by the head of the ZES Parliamentary Group, Mrs Nada Kolundzhija, who made a rather scandalous statement – that SRS MPs should not participate in permanent delegations of the National Assembly in international parliamentary institutions, because we allegedly violate some European principles. The statement is not only politically scandalous, it is contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, it is contrary to the Rules of Procedure, it is contrary to the Law on the Selection of People's MPs and, ultimately, is contrary to these European principles. So, we only insist on the principle applied everywhere in Europe, in all democratic states, in all EU member states, which is that political legitimacy can only have political parties who participated in the elections, received a number of votes, crossed the censorship and won a number of mandates in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. So we just insist on it and I don't see what's anti-European about it. You've missed, as president of the National Assembly, that's what you're responding to; I think you had to. Also, I think that Mrs Comic, who replaced you for a while at the seat of the National Assembly, instead of giving warnings to the MPs of the SRS, had to respond to Mrs Nada Kolundzhija's statement at times. As for this item of the agenda, the position of the SRS is known and it does not change. Our position is the same as when we discussed permanent delegations in international parliamentary institutions. So, we believe that in RIK, only those political parties that participated in the last parliamentary elections, held on 11 May last year, and who won seats in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Everything else is contrary to the Constitution, everything else is contrary to the established principles and principles of parliamentary democracy. There's no need to repeat here all those arguments that we made in the debate on the first item of the agenda. It is clear that SNS did not participate in the elections on 11 May, the SRS participated, with its SRS electoral list - Dr Vojislav Seselj, won 78 seats and on the basis of those 78 mandates we are looking for a proportionate participation in permanent parliamentary delegations and in RIK. I don't see what's at stake here at all, I don't see what's anti-democratic about it, I don't see what's contrary to the principles of the Council of Europe. I do not want to talk at all about the personal solutions of any party whose names are contained in the proposal for a decision on the resolution and appointment of members and deputy members of the RIK. So, this problem I really want to discuss without any hatred, vanity, certainty, etc. We are simply trying to lay down some of the principles and some of the principles that we believe are in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, that they are in accordance with this Rules of Procedure and that they are respected everywhere, in all democratic states. This debate is a good reason to respond to some unargued views, both Mr Tomislav Nikolic and Mrs Nada Kolundzhija. Of course, due to lack of time, I can't respond to all these attitudes, but I will try to explain what is the lack of those attitudes that are contrary to the principles that the SRS stands for. As far as the mandate is concerned, you see, we are now in a completely schizophrenic situation. One data is on the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia's website, based on one data, the finance ministry is transferring funds from the Republic of Serbia's budget to finance political parties, among other things, to the SRS as if it has 78 mandates at the moment. On the other hand, it is operated on the fact that there is a "Forward Serbia", which has a number of MPs and, practically, we now do not know how many MPs, in fact, are in the National Assembly and which political parties are represented. It is, above all, your fault, Mrs. Kolundzija, or your ruling coalition, for allowing one legal and political chaos to be created in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Serbian citizens today have a hard time living. The economic crisis is huge, it is clear to everyone and in this major economic crisis it is simplest to reach out for social demagogy. On Monday, Mr Tomislav Nikolic reiterated his position several times – what benefit do Serbian citizens benefit from our story of kidnapped mandates? Now I would ask one other question – what benefit do Serbian citizens have from taking those mandates? What benefit do Serbian citizens benefit from the fact that there is a Forward Serbia Parliament Club? I apologize if I will present information that has not been correct, but Belgrade has been circulating for months, among other things, that Mrs. Jorvanka Tabakovic has moved to the Forward Serbia Parliament Club because she has received an apartment from Milorad Miskovic in New Belgrade. I ask you, if it is not true, I repeat once again, so have I heard in the National Assembly and outside the National Assembly, if that is true, what good are the citizens of Kragujevac, what good do the citizens of all Serbia have in general, from the fact that Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic, to leave the SRS and move on to Tomislav Nikolic, got an apartment? Will Serbian citizens benefit from this? He won't. What Tomislav Nikolic says reminds me of the behaviour of medieval Roman popes. Tomislav Nikolic is, without a doubt, one of the richest people, at least in this national assembly. It tells Serbian citizens -- you're having a hard time living, and these evil, corrupt radicals are talking about allegedly kidnapped mandates. It's typical behavior for medieval Roman popes. Read history books. You will see that the Roman popes in the Middle Ages were the richest people in Europe. They lived in expensive castles. They lived a life of debauchery. They used to make extramarital children, but they told their shepherds – you live modestly, you give up earthly treasures, etc. The same story is being repeated today by Tomislav Nikolic, a man whose fleet is probably richer than some of the richest people in Serbia. He says the MPs of the SRS, in expensive suits, imagine, are talking about our kidnapped mandates. Furthermore, Tomislav Nikolic says there is absolutely no problem with the mandate. The term of office of the People's Parliament is free. Anyone can decide which political party they will belong to and which parliamentary club they will join. Two questions are being asked. The first question, if the resignations signed by all the MPs of the SRS in the office of Tomislav Nikolic, which was then, on 11 June 2008, the head of the SRS parliamentary group, did not produce any fact, why did Tomislav Nikolic ask us to sign those resignations? And who then had the same understanding that he has today, the question is, why did we sign those resignations, if they don't produce any legal fact, if based on those resignations they can't stop the mandate of the MP? The second question being asked, if these resignations do not produce a legal fact, why did Tomislav Nikolic then take them with him when he left the SRS? He could have left them, like a pile of worthless paper, in the offices of the SRS; what if a man was struggling to carry them, if they had no purpose at all. Of course those resignations have a purpose. Of course, they produce a legal fact and that the SRS owns them, as it does not, here today, on 29 January 2009, would not sit any of the members of any phantom parliamentary club "Forward Serbia". As for Tomislav Nikolic, it is no longer worth wasting words. You saw today, he's a great Serb, he's fighting for the preservation of KIM in Serbia. He's talking about some of the books he read, some of the big wars. I don't know what kind of books he is, and what schools he has studied, former communist, former folk radical, former Serbian radical, current Serbian advance, with a tendency to become Ivo Sanader, former railway worker and head of cemetery in Kragujevac, a former Chetnik duke! I don't know where he fought, and I don't know what kind of books he's read. Today, the same man is talking about defending KIM and defending Serbia's state integrity. It reminds me of the story of Mehmed Pasha Sokolovic, whom they took as a boy to Constantinople, and he managed to reach the position of a great vizier, or President of the Sultan's government. They say that under the old days, just before he died, he forced his servant to read to him the book, or epic song "Fight in Kosovo". When he came to the part where the Serbs stormed the Turks, Mehmed-pasha says, "Here we go, and the servant says to him, "Well, they're not ours, they're Serbs." He says to him, "Let him, child, keep on reading." It is about the same situation with Tomislav Nikolic. He spent 18 years telling the same story he heard from Vojislav Seselj and nothing Tomislav Nikolic knows about politics except what he learned from Vojislav Seselj. It's not easy, after 18 years, to change completely ideological orientation. And today, sometimes, after this address, Tomislav Nikolic strays some nationalist sentences. It is not important here, Tomislav Nikolic, that those who have done everything they have done and who have brought the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia into a state of legal and political chaos. Mrs. Kolundzija, you are trying to deceive the citizens of Serbia and the MPs by saying that the MP club is the same as the political party. We keep telling you it's not like that. The constitutional category is a political party. Political parties are subjects of political life. Political parties take part in the elections, no parliamentary club participates in the elections. What's a Parliament Club? The parliamentary club is just a parliamentary branch, or a parliamentary faction of a political party. You insist on the claim that the parliamentary club is some form that has an independent legal and political existence, independent of the political party. You allow the National Assembly to operate a parliamentary club that belongs to a political party that has not participated at all in parliamentary elections. I don't have any problems because that party exists. As far as I'm concerned, if the people say in the next parliamentary elections that they should have 250 seats in the National Assembly, they should. The people don't deny it. You're trying to force yourself to prove that black is white and white is black. He can't, Mrs. Kolundjia. The parliamentary club is not an independent institution, it is only an extension of a political party. You insist, in all the materials, you avoid mentioning the term political party. You use a term everywhere – a parliamentary club. It is simply not right, from the constitutional, or from the political aspect. It is pointless what Tomislav Nikolic says, that he is fighting against Mladjan Dinkic, Bozidar Djelic, against crime, corruption, etc. You allowed crime and corruption in the National Assembly. There is no greater crime than the fact that someone takes with them, or steals the blankly signed resignations of the MPs. It is a crime that you, Mrs. Kolundjia, have tolerated and still tolerated in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. What is the purpose of fighting Bozidar Djelic, against Mladjan Dinkic, against mobsters and criminals, if you tolerate crime in the National Assembly? You're legalizing a criminal situation in the National Assembly. You do it through all these materials. How is it possible, Mrs Kolundzija, that question I asked myself, and when we discussed the first item of the agenda, where, in which Member State of the Council of Europe, it is possible that MPs of the political party who did not take part in the parliamentary elections at all? We are constantly trying to prove to you that there is no such thing in the world, that it is contrary to all the established principles of democracy, and then accuse us that the MPs of the SRS should not participate in the delegations of the National Assembly, because we are allegedly violating the principles of the Council of Europe. You're breaking them, Mrs. Kolundjia. You DS act as if nothing terrible happened in the National Assembly in September 2008. We fought radicals, what we can do, there are two parliamentary clubs. We don't have resignations, etc. You have resignations. For months we've been listening to the story - why do you radicals keep talking about these stolen resignations, mandates? Give us the papers. Let it go to congregation procedure. We'll settle it in accordance with the Constitution and the law. Did we hand over the blankly signed resignations of the three former MPs of the SRS? That's what Mr Dragan Todorovic was talking about yesterday. Why don't you schedule a session of the Administrative Board, if you're fighting for the rule of law, if you really care to resolve the issue of these mandates? You now have blankly signed resignations, you have statements from former SRS MPs that they are making their mandate available to the SRS. Why aren't you doing anything? Why do you tolerate a completely abnormal, pathological state in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia? The plane shows that all the problems in this assembly, or at least the biggest part of these problems, stem from the fact that one parliamentary group is formed against the Constitution and the law. One of your arguments, which is funny and I really can't believe you're using it, and at the same time you want to be a serious politician, is the next. The constitution says the MP can place his mandate at the disposal of the political party that has run him under the terms of the prescribed laws, and you say there is no law. What's wrong, Mrs. Kolundjia? Isn't the Law on the Selection of People's Messengers in force? How do we all sit in this congregation if there is no law on the basis of which MPs are elected and on the basis of which MPs are suspended? The law on the election of MPs, Mrs Kolundzija, stipulates that the mandate of the MPs ceases. We shall resign to you the resignations of the former MPs of the SRS, and you shall do nothing. We make statements that make these former SRS MPs available to the SRS, you do nothing. I don't know what other documents you're expecting. It is clear, Mrs. Kolundjia, that the DS has been behind everything that's been going on in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia since September, so to speak. If anyone violates the principles of the Council of Europe, they are being violated by you of the DS. This is not the main culprit Tomislav Nikolic. The main culprit is you who tolerate this illegal state. Now the question is, how long will this illegal situation last? Persistently, you have been accusing the SRS of obstructing Parliament's work for months. For you it is an obstruction of Parliament's work when we say that we have been robbed of mandates, it is for you to say that a political party, when it enters the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia with a number of mandates, when the mandate of the National Assembly is completed, comes out of the National Assembly with the same number of mandates. How is it possible that a party, where there is one in the world, enters a congregation with 78 mandates and comes out with 57, 58, 60 etc? That's not there, Mrs. Kolundjia. You keep tolerateting something that you yourself know has no foothold in the Constitution and the law. Your MPs will be quiet. There are no MPs, whether from the government or from the opposition, who will justify what Tomislav Nikolic did. You're all disgusted, but that's what you're talking about in the towers. When the time comes for the National Assembly session, when you have to say it publicly, at the pay phone, pretend like you're not from here. What can we do? You can do a lot of things. It is up to you, Mrs. Kolundjia, whether Serbia will be a legal state or not. If you don't care about it, I'm very sorry about it, and if you really care, then take some concrete steps to get rid of this illegal situation. I repeat again, I have no objection to participating in the next SNS parliamentary elections with its electoral list. Let them win all mandates in the National Assembly, let them form a government, let them do something epic for the Republic of Serbia and its citizens, I will welcome it first, but until then you must respect the fact that the last parliamentary elections were held in 11 May 2008 and that, in these elections, the SRS won 78 mandates and that, based on these 78 mandates, we are looking for participation in both international parliamentary institutions and in the RIK and in the working bodies of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-29-0.u13513	The word is Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-29-0.u13514	Dear fellow Members of the Parliament, citizens of Serbia, I have suffered many insults from the people I worked with until yesterday, but this has gone beyond measure today. Mr. Martinovic, if you can't go to the party where you've stayed to make progress on your intelligence, I'm really sorry that with such lies you qualify for advancement. I have one specific question, which I can, in the context of the infringement of the Rules of Procedure, put in Rule 225. I ask the Ministry of Finance, his authority, the Tax Administration, to check whether Yorvanka Tabakovic, of Boška's father, born Miskovic, the mother of three children, owns any real estate in Belgrade, Novi Sad or anywhere other than the apartment in Branimir Cosic's number 7, in which I live. Do you think it's enough to say I apologize if it's not true and you know it's not true? I dare to say from this address book never a more difficult word – shame on you. I ask that in writing, as well as all MPs of this house, whom I appreciate, be provided with an answer, especially to Mr Martinovic. This finding was made by Mrs Gordana Pop-Lazic in due time. I didn't answer, I told her in front of the press, in a language she only understands – Gordan, let your children live in that apartment in New Belgrade, which I don't own. Now, I guess you all understand.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-29-0.u13515	The word has Mr. Martinovic, a replica. I'd ask you to shut up, we didn't see anything, I don't know what happened. Neither Miss Natasa Jovanovic nor I have seen, but I ask you to calm down your passions and bring motor and verbal activities to the level of decency for this operation.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-29-0.u13516	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I hope you've noticed that what I said I didn't say with the intention of insulting anyone. I have repeated what is widely said in Belgrade, in the National Assembly and outside the National Assembly, and I apologize once more if that is not true. There is something else, Mr Tomislav Nikolic said on Monday that he left the SRS because Vojislav Seselj does not allow the SRS to come to power. I am now asking Mr Tomislav Nikolic and Mrs Jorvanka Tabakovic, who would never have seen the ministerial cabinets if it hadn't been for Vojislav Seselj. How is it possible that Vojislav Seselj, in 1998, wanted to win power in Serbia, and reportedly did not want to win power in Serbia in 2008? Let me remind you, in 2004, when local elections in Serbia were held, the SRS won a large number of municipalities in Serbia. Find any man, a Serbian radical, whom Vojislav Seselj has told - you must not conquer power in that and that municipality, or in that and that city. He said, however, this: don't go into power with criminals, with thieves, don't embarrass the party, you have to get out of power with clean hands, just like you did in power and entered. Now, in 2008, we won power in numerous municipalities in Serbia and Vojvodina, we lost some municipalities because coalition partners were shifty, sold faith for dinner, and at the last minute ran to the side of the so-called. The European bloc, but in 2008 you couldn't find a Serbian radical that Vojislav Seselj said – don't conquer power, don't enter power. So, the thesis of Tomislav Nikolic does not stand. As to whether someone should be ashamed or not, with all due respect to Ms. Jorvanka Tabakovic as an economic expert and, above all, as a lady, I must remind you, Mrs. Tabakovic, that in 2000, after the five-octobaric coup, you returned the SRS membership card, although you were previously Minister of the Republic Government, thanks to Vojislav Seselj, so Vojislav Seselj, at the insistence of Milorad Mircic, returned you to the SRS and allowed you to become a National MP of the Serbian Radical Party again. Now, you see for yourself how you brought them back and whether and who should be ashamed and ashamed of what he did.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-29-0.u13517	Miss Natasa Jovanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-29-0.u13518	Mr Martinovic, thank you for, as an honorable man, for the sake of the public, for this truth, and for this period of membership and for the great nobility of our President Dr Seselj again. I must speak of the unfoundedness of this proposal, Mrs. Kolundjia, from the aspect of the Law on the Selection of Members of the People's Parliament and of what the RIK should do. Since Mr Martinovic has explained to you, as an authorised representative of our parliamentary group, we have told you this as registered on the list, you are now risking, Mrs Kolundzija, to enter further violation of not only democratic principles, but to appoint people who cannot possibly be to the responsible state work. They can be by name, because they say they're graduate lawyers, and they're tens of thousands in our country, but if the Law on the Selection of People's MPs says, Article 33. The law, that members of the RIK, on the proposal of parliamentary groups, can be graduates, then you cannot tell us that now, as Mrs Radeta said yesterday, from one wrong, which you have given to someone by forming that phantom group and party in the Serbian Parliament, that you will give an additional right to carry out the electoral process and to have such a responsible function. If, Mrs. Kolundzija, you will remain in the position that these citizens of Serbia, by name and last name of this morning, should be members of the RIK, which is the kidnapping, further robbery of everything called the electoral will of citizens, take away from the MPs of the SRS what is our right to propose, then continue to play and be insecure, as you have shown in the past four days when you have not sent our delegation, the legitimate delegation of this Parliament, to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. Then, Mrs. Kolundjia, withdraw this proposal, and write down the following names, make another combination, but this one would be much more honorable. That's what Mr. Momir Markovic started talking about, and now I'm giving you a new proposal. In addition to these names you have put on, these phantoms that appear in this series on RTS, the extension of the 'White Ship', each week at 20 hours, Rosca, Cirko and others, here, write down the following names: The Movement of Serbia - Bogoljub Karic, put one member on them, after winning the election of zero mandates according to the RIK report; To ask the village - People's Peasant Party - Marijan Risticevic, and him one place; Reformist Party - Dr Aleksandar Višnic, and he wants one member or deputy, it doesn't matter to him, put it in RIK... (President: Time. ) Roma Party - Srdjan Sajn, I end; Movement of my Serbia - Branislav Lečić, wants and Lečić one place; United Vlasi of Serbia - Dr Predrag Balasevic; Civil Initiative of Goranca - GIG; Roma for Roma - Milos Paunkovic; Union of Roma Serbia - Dr Rajko Đuric; Vojvodjanska Party - Mr Igor Kurjački; National Movement of Serbia - Milan Paroski; Montenegrin Party - Nenad Stevović; Alliance of Bajko Bunjevac - Mirko Bajic; Patriot Party of Diaspora - Zoran Milinkovic. Give them all one place to make the circus bigger, because there's no bigger laughs. Worst of all, some were not even on the list, and at least they know, they won so many votes, says zero mandates. They show up and they're not ashamed to defend from this pay phone the attitude that they're right about somewhere. They have beekeepers, fishermen, and I don't know where. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-29-0.u13519	Ms. Tabakovic, deputy head of the Parliament Group.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-29-0.u13520	Not because of Mr. Martinovic, but because of the Serbian public, in 2003, on 24 February, on the day Mr. Vojislav Seselj decided to voluntarily go to The Hague, my late husband packed mine and his membership card and returned them to Dragan Todorovic. No one has ever wondered, nor thought that a Yorgovanka could go to another party, except for those who wanted to take the place I deserved and had in the party. They were talking to you, and you didn't get it right. Yes, Mr. Mircic returned those membership cards to me when, with my work and my decision to reactivate in politics, I returned among those of whom, apparently, the good part was not worth calling my friends. I brought this out for the sake of the Serbian public. Thank you, President, for your word. (At the same time as MP Jorgovanka Tabakovic's speech, the MPs of the SRS were banging on the benches. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-29-0.u13521	Thank you. Mrs. Gordana Pop-Lazic also has an advantage.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-29-0.u13522	Madam Chairman, if we are to get to know the public with some internal affairs, I really feel a commitment, since I am the culprit that Mrs Tabakovic was in the SRS at all and that the MP is, yes, again for the sake of the Serbian public, I say something. It is true that she returned her party book before Vojislav Seselj went to The Hague, and when it was known that she was leaving, before the Central Homeland Administration, and that he himself called and said that there was no reason to be angry, and her anger was directed at it – why she was not a national MP. I will remind you that at that time, the SRS had a relatively small number of MPs, after 2000, and that we had taken care of, above all, the party interests, that we had assigned mandates mainly to the presidents of the district committees. So only her personal interest was at stake and the return of the party's book was the result of her discontent. After a number of years, I admit, in a visit to Vojislav Seselj, I said – let us see that she repented, to keep working, to give her a chance, and Vojislav said – indeed, she was sick, perhaps she had some health problems that triggered such immature behavior; well, let her, let her, I don't mind, because he, a man, was never vengeful and gave everyone a chance to show off as much as any of us individually could. We're all different, someone can do more, someone less, someone's better on the ground, someone at the pay phone, but that's the real truth. He gave her the hand and the chance again, and here's how she gave it back to him again. I don't want to talk about what I personally think of the lady in question and what Mr. Vojislav Seselj personally thought of her, because that's the person who always appeared before the elections, and never when it was necessary to work on the ground and spread the ideology and the SRS programme.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-29-0.u13523	Mr. Sreto Peric, then Mr. Maras.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-29-0.u13524	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Ms. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, I believe that, a couple of excellencies, an expert on what you are doing, you have progressed since the moment you took over the leadership of the National Assembly, but I also see in you responsibility for the blockade of this parliament. First of all, it's Mrs. Hope Kolundji's responsibility, she signed this decision, and you haven't signed it. I'm not even sure you've read it now, and you Tomislav Nikolic should be here just to take up quality time for the SRS, to discuss what the problem is for the Serbian citizens, instead of what's next. Whenever the Government of the Republic of Serbia has no solution, or Boris Tadic, whom I demand to address this problem, as DS President, this is where Mrs Nada Kolundzija appears. I don't mean anything by Mrs. Nadia Kolundjia, but she suggested this motion decision. I must remind you, Mrs. Nado Kolundžija, that next to you is colleague Vlatko Ratkovic, who is a good legal expert, that this decision you have proposed is not in line with Article 33. The law on selecting Members of Parliament, as they can only propose political parties that participated in the elections and crossed the censorship at the moment of proposing and making this decision. The Parliament Club is a category, or institution, which only the Rules of Procedure know about the work of the National Assembly. No other applicable positive act in the legal system of the Republic of Serbia knows the parliamentary club, but that is why political parties know, above all, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, the Law on the Financing of Political Parties and a series of other regulations. You couldn't have suggested a decision like this at all. You know what this is about? I don't know how much, I don't want to talk about that number, but for me, it's only 78 parliamentary mandates of the SRS. They are won on the basis of a number of votes, 78 members of the SRS, as MPs of the same party, on behalf of millions of 219 thousand and 436 citizens of the Republic of Serbia who expressed their free will in the elections. We can't just let it go. The parliamentary mandate is not Sreto Peric, but the parliamentary mandate depends on the number of citizens, as many as come out, demonstrates their free will. It is 20,000 freely expressed wills of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and such a voice is exactly the same, regardless of whether it is an academic, a professor, a farmer or a peasant from the Podrinj area. That's the day we all get even. (President: Time. ) You are not making a clear distinction here, and we, on behalf of a million and almost 300,000 citizens of the Republic of Serbia, cannot allow it. You solve the problem so it doesn't get any worse. They're not SRS MPs. We can work 24 hours. We must not as hostages of your incompetent and unprepared policies to solve problems we are holding the citizens of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-29-0.u13525	There's a word Mr. Free Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-29-0.u13526	The Honored Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, under Article 104, paragraph 1, Members of Parliament are required to maintain the dignity of the Assembly. The dignity of the congregation can be marred by act or by inaction. Madam President, you have repeatedly shown flexibility, but several times you have shown a lack of willingness to react in situations where the dignity of the Assembly has indeed been violated. I'm undermining your iniquities. Because we've been listening to things in this room the previous days, until you were present, and we've also been listening to things now. For the first time, it is likely, in the recent history of Serbian parliamentarianism, that five hours of delegations are being discussed, and five hours are likely to discuss the composition of the RIK. Mrs. Nada Kolundzija, as the most responsible currently in the ruling coalition sitting in the Assembly, as well as Mr. Ruzic, who is currently there, and is part of that ruling majority, as head of parliamentary groups, except waiting for this problem to pass itself, must do something. This is going to take four days, and it'll probably take another 44 days. We hear pointless things, we hear insults, we hear arguments, but you have to do something. Is your reaction a letter from the director of RTS? Did your reaction to the silence on government measures, which did not discuss measures with anyone from the opposition – how does Serbia get out of this crisis? They've brought in some measures today, whose results we're about to see, but what's going on in this room you can stop, you can solve. Waiting for, grumbling over the problem that exists, you dissuade this congregation and I think in a much stronger way, you're tearing down the dignity of the assembly that you're letting this last for four days, with the prospect of never ending. The problem won't go away on its own, the problem has to be solved. There have been cases where you have shown the ability to solve problems. I ask you to do your best to solve the problems that exist in this congregation. You know why they exist. They're citizens' hostages. You've seen the public's reaction to what's going on in the Assembly, but trust me, one day, one minute, they'll turn on you. That's for sure. You're the most responsible, you're the most responsible. Please respond in a way, try to solve the problem. We have a motion for a delegation, we have amendments and we have a request to return mandates, we have silence not to return to mandates. We have an invitation to the Constitution on the one hand and on the other hand, and it will probably take some time until this assembly is dissolved or new elections are discussed. It is not in anyone's interest at the moment, for the simple reason that Serbia is in a very difficult situation, and perhaps it is the only solution. If you think this self-inflation, if you experience it like that, I apologize for freely interpreting it, that this war, the verbal one, which exists between the two parliamentary groups, will only harm them, I think you are deeply wrong, because it damages the dignity of the Assembly, damages the general idea of parliamentaryism and choices, which people will choose next time. I'm sorry I timed out, but we at LDP called twice yesterday. This is the first time we've called today, but we really have a desire to do our job. He's waiting for a dozen laws to be passed, and you have a willingness to work on it. I'm asking you to try to solve the problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-29-0.u13527	Thank you, Mr. Marash. He's got Mrs. Kolundji's word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-29-0.u13528	Dear Madam, the Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here is a completely wrong picture of me making the list of members of the RIK. The truth is, I would like to say that the RIK proposal was made up in such a way that, in consultation of the heads of Parliament clubs, a proportion was agreed on the representation of parliamentary clubs in the RIK, that each parliamentary club, in accordance with that proportion, provided its list of proposals. I beg you, gentlemen of the SRS, to see which list you delivered. That's exactly what I've only united in the RIK decision proposal. So you can take your head, Mr. Martinovic, but that's true. I will now ask the service to deliver what the SRS delivered as a proposal, not what you later delivered, what you delivered as a proposal that I only united. I don't think it's true, you're saying something that isn't true, trying to create an atmosphere where someone here is doing something on their own. So no one here does anything on their own. What you're trying to raise to the level of national and state problem number one is your internal problem. What is least unfair, on the other hand, compared to the ruling majority, is that it is trying to present that the ruling majority is not ready to resolve the problem. There is a very clear limit in solving this problem. There is, therefore, an undeniable fact that mandates can only be taken away under the conditions laid down in the law. This law unequivocally gives the possibility that the mandate may cease under certain conditions before the deadline on which the MP is elected, if the following conditions are met, and one of these conditions is resignation. The mandates for which resignations have been delivered will be discussed and decided by the Administrative Board, and that is not disputed. So if you want to block the work because you want to blackmail that something is going faster, then you have to say it in public. Then all Serbian citizens must know what this is all about, that it is about blackmail and intent to exorcise something that is someone's internal interest. So, once again, I have made a decision based on the proposals submitted by the parliamentary groups and I have not changed any names compared to what the parliamentary groups have delivered. I think it's very important, because here he's trying to introduce himself as if I've done it with my own will, by determining who's going to be a member of RIK, which simply isn't true.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-29-0.u13529	He has the word Mr. Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-29-0.u13530	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm reporting for an article. 101, 103 and 104. Mrs. Kolundjia, I ask you to understand some things. Do not turn them around and try to deceive the citizens of Serbia. Because the SRS is not blackmailing anyone and has never blackmailed, or the SRS is doing what it thinks every party should do – to fight an end to the electoral will of Serbian citizens, and we do so. We do not allow the May 2008 election results to be stolen. Mrs. Kolundjia, I remind you that we received 78 seats in the election. By the will of your majority and by leaving some gaps in the Law on the Selection of MPs, you have allowed some undefined situations to lead to these problems, and you will not solve them. It's especially important, Mrs. Kolundjia, and in many meetings that you and I, many of the heads of Parliament, have not called them here, have told you that you are responsible and that you should resolve it. We warned you that you should give us back the Administrative Committee, the Finance Committee, everything that belonged to the Serbian Radical Party. Mrs. Kolundzija, I urge you to tell the citizens of Serbia, I should not invite you, you also said from the pay phone, how many times you have warned us: what you are doing, resign, make statements, and there are no problems, not obstructing the work of the Serbian Parliament. Citizens of Serbia, I address you, we have resigned irrevocably, we have made statements by three MPs who are making their mandates available to the SRS, in a scale with the Law. A week has passed, the Management Board is not scheduled. Whose will is that, Mrs. Kolundjia? Among the ruling majority's parties, I can say that because it is said in the "Caziprst", Mrs Grubjesic said that, as far as the G17 Plus party is concerned, she believes the mandates belong to the SRS. Who does that depend on, if it's not up to you from DS? It suits you that, above all, internal problems, you solve problems within the party by distracting the citizens of Serbia, leaving these unresolved problems in the Serbian Parliament and trying to accuse the SRS. I recommended that you sit in the ruling majority, make a deal and say what you want, but if the citizens of Serbia know it clearly and loudly, don't blame all the problems of accusing the opposition and the SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-29-0.u13531	Mr. Branko Ruzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-29-0.u13532	President-in-Office, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advocating a violation of members of 100th and 101st. Rules of Procedure. I'm using the right to replica after my fellow Marash is exposed. So, the process of devising Parliament's work, which lasts for a long time, can be said, for months, is the product of a division created in the SRS and no one can kill it. The compromise of representative functions, which is one of the vital functions of this home, in international organisations, or parliamentary assemblies, was the Council of Europe, NATO, the OSCE, the Western European Union, is also something that neither this home nor the state of Serbia nor the citizens of Serbia, regardless of who they voted for, whether for DS, the SRS, because they voted not to discuss any technical issues here, trivial issues, which were never discussed in parliamentary practice in Serbia, but were all decided by consensus. Both opposition and positional parties, on the basis of the proposal, the parameters and quotas previously established, gave their representatives both to RIK and to parliamentary delegations, and after that we only had, practically, 15 minutes to technically implement the vote. Now we have come to the situation that, because of the known misunderstandings within the SRS, we have even had one vocabulary between the representatives and two options that are not similar to this home, and I don't think it is similar to those who, originally, voted for that political decision at the time. I'm sure the citizens can recognize this, I'm sure they'll be able to value it, and when they come up with some new choices, but also you from the SRS and the SNS, be sure that the elections won't be called to determine which one of you is right now. As far as the Law on the Selection of People's MPs is concerned, it is clear when the possibility of an end to a person's term of office arises. As for that, Mrs Nada Kolundzija said clearly that I hope that Mr Konstantinovic will schedule a session of the Administrative Committee on this issue, because the SRS has submitted certain resignations, and that an adequate decision will be made at that session of the Administrative Committee. I think that's quite enough, if we all respect the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, and I don't think there's any reason to continue to abuse citizens' time and taxpayers' money, because every working day of this house costs taxpayers in Serbia five million dinars. If you want to fight the financial crisis, and your mouth is full of it, if you want to point to all the problems that await us, then at least try to save the money of Serbian citizens in a way that would be normal and moral.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-29-0.u13533	He has the word Mr. Maras, then Mr. Krasic, then Mr. Shormaz, then Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-29-0.u13534	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Ruzic, I would like to sign almost everything you said, except for the part where you express hope that Mr. Konstantinovic will schedule the Administrative Board. I'd sign anything else. We still don't see the willingness to solve the problem. I think that's the biggest problem. Mrs. Kolundjia, don't get me wrong, I'm really glad I at least provoked someone from the ruling majority to come forward, to show some intention to solve the problem. The Constitution is clear, the law is clear. I'm not getting into whose mandates they are. That's the problem you need to solve. When LDP is the ruling majority and such a problem occurs, then we will solve the problem. You have to solve this problem. You've taken responsibility to solve it. A few days ago, Mr Ruzic said that five million dinars cost a day, but then no session is scheduled that will have, effectively, three hours of work, because television broadcasts are a variety of events, then no session is scheduled when it is known to be discussed about the Rules of Procedure, because such proposals have been tabled for assembly delegations that do not correspond to one parliamentary group, which, by the will of citizens, is the largest opposition parliamentary group. Then we do not schedule a session, because the result of what we see is that Parliament's existence, or the transfer of Parliament's work, and that is what abuse is. Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, you are here first among us, and you could really take care that if there is no agreement on something and if there is any assumption, and the previous three days were almost identical to this one today, there is no session scheduled until the problem is solved. And the problem can be solved, I underline, there should only be the will to solve this problem and, of course, the ability. Of course, we won't answer again, because we wanted to point out that silence and inaction, for who knows which way, on this left hand side of me, and waiting for the problem to pass itself, destroys the dignity of the Parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-29-0.u13535	Mrs. Alexandra Jankovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-29-0.u13536	I agree with Mr. Maras, this is more and more like groundhog Day, that famous movie where every day it looks exactly the same, and the burning problems outside. I'm reporting for an officer. 225th and 226th, and I ask for information based on the letter I received from Mrs. Tankosic, who signed, and ten women from Belgrade who are territorially belonging to different municipalities – Sava Venac, Vračar, Zvezdavac, Voždovac, Novi Belgrade, more specifically, their children belong to health homes in these municipalities. Here's what's in the letter: "Dear Mrs Jankovic, I address you as a woman and a health care worker, and I especially ask you to bring my question to Mrs Slavica Djukić, so, if possible, that you and the other women who have something to do with health care, and here in the Assembly, you appeal to Minister Milosavljevic to do something about it. We all know that vaccination of children is mandatory against diphtheria, tetanus and a great cough. If I'm not mistaken, it's that DTPR vaccine; if I'm wrong, I'm sorry, I'm not a doctor, I'm an unemployed economist, so now I'm a housekeeper. The doctor told me that my son, who made it to vaccination, I am not giving home the vaccine, but to buy a side at the pharmacy, which is much better. I felt a little weird that the child couldn't receive a vaccine in the home of health, but we should buy it at the pharmacy, so I complained to friends and relatives who had a similar experience. Still, since I'm an economist, I've got a little bit of information and I've come to understand that the domestic vaccine, produced by Torlak, costs 110 and imports 980 dinars. What's this about? Do we really have to import all the scissors from the West, like this invalid milk for children, radioactive chocolates, and now vaccines." Since this is his fifth term, perhaps the health minister has not been able to inform himself about the situation at the Institute of Virology, Vaccines and The Torlak Serum, which was practically the only facility in Serbia that produced vaccines and which was recently our large and leading exporter. Today he works with minimum capacity, and he loses tens of millions of dollars a year, because production stands. Torlak loses $15m annually only on poly vaccines and vaccines against polio, which has not been produced for four years, as the state has not provided money for the reconstruction of the plant. Otherwise, the product poly vaccine is the heart of the entire institution, because it's a production of huge capacity, more than 100 million doses a year, with an agreed sale of 100 million at an annual level, in five years. Since the government has not provided funds for the reconstruction of the plant, Torlak does not make a domestic flu vaccine for four years, so citizens have to pay for import vaccines, which are nine times more expensive in pharmacies. As for the DTPR vaccine, which I read about in the letter, the import vaccine, which is purchased in pharmacies, is indeed 980 dinars, nine times more expensive than domestic ones, produced in Torlak, and passed the same control as the side, with the cost of 110 dinars. The question is, what is this all about? The interests of the import lobby, the systematic destruction of everything that is ours, and the promotion and probably the personal commission for foreign products? This question, therefore, exceeds this tortured Tomic, because he will do anything to enter the Ginis Book of Records as a man who has had the highest number of ministerial mandates, and even Mr Dinkic, Baron Minhauzen. This is, above all, a question for the prime minister, Mr Cvetkovic, who, in the context of a package of measures proposed by the government in the fight against the global economic crisis, as one of the most important, in fact, as the first item, highlighted the provision of funds to encourage production and purchase of domestic products. In order to actually buy our domestic, firstly, we need to enable these domestic products to be produced, offered and advertised, both on our own and on the foreign market. Does the road to Europe really have to go through this shameless courtship and buy everything that West wants to ratise, from powdered milk, over meat of specially chipped, "mad cows" to various pills for "lylullas"? Tomice, you are no Tomas, Junior, nor are you Mr. Yang, people, you are Serbs, call yourself to mind, return to reality, because Serbia has no alternative.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-29-0.u13537	The matter will be forwarded to the government and to the Secretary of Staff. Mr. Krasic has a word. I would ask you to try to get back to the agenda of today's session, it's really inefficient and it's obvious that we're going to have to do something if we don't get back to the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Crassy.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-29-0.u13538	Mrs. Djukic - Dejanovic, I just got back from what you just said we should go back to the agenda. I've called the Rules of Procedure and I'm taking the opportunity to invite you to take a look at the article. 160th and 136th. Rules of Procedure, and I'm using that as a basis for what I'm about to bring out. What's this about? You have heard the views of the SRS, or MPs of the SRS, and no such attitude has any contact with any person in the National Assembly, even less with Mrs Nada Kolundzija, who is formally and legally a signator of this proposal for a decision. Don't interpret it personally. You have to understand one thing: this debate on delegations and the composition of the RIK, which basically has a proportional representation of political parties in the National Assembly, must take place in this way from the view of the SRS, because they are overrun and those rights that have citizens who voted for the SRS are not respected. According to the 78 mandates verified by the RIK, we so need to have seats and in this parity should be represented in all bodies, working bodies, etc. You don't respect that. Logically, a question arises – to whom does it suit? The SRS is obviously not responding. Why should we deal with mandates when we recognize both the Constitution and the law and all the regulations? Then the logical question arises – who brought us into this situation to discuss it? We've been brought by power, Mrs. Nado. Don't go any further now. Why? Because he doesn't want to solve this issue. I can create one retrospective of all your answers and excuses and tell you in advance – we will publish a book on this. Since 11 June, until the issue is resolved, it will all go as a document and a contribution to the history of destroying Serbian parliamentism, directed by the DS. Mrs Kolundžija, you must understand one thing – the SRS has taken advantage of all the lessons you and Mrs Slavica Djukić - Dejanovic have given in terms of legal means. We have one dimension that goes through the prosecution, one dimension that goes through the court; I don't want to burden you with that. We have another dimension, according to your teaching, that goes through the Administrative Board, and everyone knows it's blocked on the Administrative Board, absolutely everyone. Could it have blocked the SRS? It's not like the SRS can't block what you're doing with the Rules of Procedure and with the law. We don't participate, and yet it doesn't work. The question arises – to whom does this state suit? This situation corresponds to that minister who has dual citizenship and is seeking asylum from a South American state to flee the country. This corresponds to the one who, through business banks in the interbank market, buys out foreign exchanges and takes them abroad. This corresponds to those who do not wish to share responsibility with the opposition in the National Assembly on the vital issue of this nation. You blocked the KIM resolution, so you got us Eulex. It's your fault. (President: Time. Just one lesson. The legal path to this situation has already been seen. I'll take an example of two terms G17 plus a few years ago. The end of the term of office has been established, sent to the Constitutional Court to exercise their right. The reverse situation, Mrs. Hope, is not possible. The SRS cannot initiate a constitutional appeal, but anyone who has suspended his mandate in the National Assembly, if he is unsatisfactory... You've been talking for five minutes, Mr. Krassic. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-29-0.u13539	Mrs. Hope Kolundji has a word, then Mr. Shormaz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-29-0.u13540	Dear Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, to see how this is not about anyone breaking the Law, the Rules of Procedure, or the rules that apply, but that it is about something else, I would go from seeing how the RIK is chosen by law. Article 33(1) says that RIK's permanent membership consists of the president and 16 other members, appointed by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, on a proposal from parliamentary groups in the National Assembly. That's what the law says. On the basis of the agreement of the heads of the parliamentary clubs and the proportionate representation of the parliamentary group in Parliament, each parliamentary group submitted its proposal for members of the RIK, in accordance with Article 33. Law on the election of MPs, the SRS Parliamentary Group submitted a proposal to members and deputies of RIK members: Slavoljub Milenković, Biljana Krasic, Karmen Čuk, Marica Savic, Milan Terzić, Željka Radeta, Vjerica Bakovic, Nikola Dobrijevic. These are the names that I have only united in a joint decision, based on the proposal of all the parliamentary groups, which we are discussing today. Therefore, I really do not see what can be the subject of the dispute here, if the decision I have proposed is in line with what you have delivered to the National Assembly, as is fully in line with all the proposals submitted by all the parliamentary groups to the presidents of the National Assembly. I don't think it's fair for you to fool citizens by having some kind of will, any of whose, if we're discussing today a decision made on the basis of the same proposals as the SRS, of all the other parliamentary groups. So I'm really asking that the problems you have and that are being solved elsewhere are not being transmitted here and we're not trying to solve them the way it's impossible to solve them.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-29-0.u13541	Mr. Todorovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-29-0.u13542	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm reporting for an article. 101, 103 and 104. Here, we've already done half the work. A part of the SRS proposal is respected by the Democratic Party, but only by the part that suits it. Mrs Kolundžija, please, it is one part of the SRS proposal, but you have another part of the proposal – to amend and supplement members of delegations, RIK etc. We have, in some ways, overestimated you, believing that you are a party that advocates legality, respect for the Rules of Procedure, respect for election results, for all that the SRS stands for, and now you blame us for believing that you are like that. We expected that the situation that took place would be resolved in accordance with the Constitution, in accordance with the law, that you, as honorable people, would act in the only possible way, that you would not allow an end to the electoral will of Serbian citizens, that you would respect the election results and that we would resolve this matter. We have thus shown good will, at first, to solve this problem without burdening the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. What were your motives? May I say they weren't very honest. You believed not only that these 18 mandates would be kidnapped by the SRS, but much, much more. You remember here, someone comes out of the booth, and he says, "There's one less of you today, so every day, it was calculated, when it wasn't like that, and you were counting on it to be like that." Now that we have made it clear to you that the matter is over, that there is no more calculations, that we want back what belongs to us, because we see that you absolutely do not respect the Rules of Procedure, we had to do what was expected of us, to submit a proposal to supplement your agenda – the choice of members of the SRS delegations. Mrs. Kolundjia, I'm giving you a simple test, you don't need something complicated to invent right now. Take from the Council of Europe's website the composition of our legal and legitimate delegation and you will see the name Tomislav Nikolic there. It says "SRS." Mrs Kolundzija, bring Tomislav Nikolic for a pay phone, ask Boris Tadic to tell him, or when Mickey tells him, he will come for a pay phone, to plead out where he is strangers; the matter will be simple. You deceive the Council of Europe for delegations, they are not members of the SRS, they are excluded from the SRS. That's what we're looking for, nothing more and nothing less, just what belongs to us, and we're going to do that, with all legal and legal means, there's no dilemma. When it comes to these three mandates, here we are, awaiting a session of the Administrative Committees. As for the theft of our documents, i.e. the resignations and statements, we expect the court to reach a verdict, and then we expect the Administrative Committee and the RIK to act in accordance with that verdict and the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to start working normally, in the composition voted by the citizens of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-29-0.u13543	Mr. Shormaz has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-29-0.u13544	I am reporting on the basis of article 104 and what Mr Ruzic said about the assembly pay phone, where it is not apostrophe again, and it does not clearly say who is doing what in the National Assembly. The DSS is an opposition to this incompetent government, the government, the parliamentary majority, and it is seen daily, but it does not obstruct Parliament, but we are trying to do what is most necessary for the citizens of Serbia and that the citizens of Serbia recognise it. As Mr Ruzic says, Serbian citizens will see and see, that they can grade, I agree with that, but only if we have a TV broadcast from the National Assembly. If, as announced, we won't have it, or we don't have it, how will the citizens see it? There is only one free channel left for citizens of Serbia to inform. Boris Tadic's non-democracy regime has choked all free media and there are no more free media in Serbia. If RTS wants to behave commercially, then we, as the National Assembly, could make a decision to cancel the subscription, so let RTS behave commercially, and we can make a decision on the establishment of a parliamentary channel. It could be a solution to everything, even business problems. We would have a direct transmission on the parliamentary channel, transferring press conferences, which would not be censored, but transferred in full, as MPs say. We'd have a lot of stuff, board transfers, important board reports, every morning a report on what you eat at a restaurant, etc. To be a real institution, to have a real channel, to have transfers and to see clearly, and RTS to go to the market and to fight those who commercially pay their frequencies. Otherwise, the picture of us is real and that parking lot outside the House of the National Assembly, which we've been talking about for months, we've been talking about, trying to get rid of it. What does this look like? What tourist, a stranger, when he comes to Belgrade, can photograph that beautiful building of the Parliament, which was once federal, with those monuments, with that park outside? What's that look like now? We're not just making a picture. Who's to blame? Of course, the leadership of the National Assembly is wrong again. When will that question be resolved? It is interesting that none of the media in Serbia is involved, nor is RTS involved, going to record it. The problems are always MPs, what they say, what they eat, what they dress, what they strip, etc. Please, if you are the parliamentary majority, then do what the parliamentary majority should do, don't whine. It's not our fault you're incompetent.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-29-0.u13545	The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-29-0.u13546	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs. Comic, I'm advertising the violation of article 104. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Mr. Ruzic declares himself as well as his party, advocates social justice, but social justice is not a social demagogy. Before saying how much Serbian citizens cost the National Assembly, he should have said how much Serbian citizens cost this and this large government, one of the most massive in Europe. How much is it for us directors in public enterprises, board members, who receive such compensation as a normal man in Serbia can only dream? That's not what he said. How much does the Krkobic family cost us? The senior prime minister is the Deputy Prime Minister and the junior deputy mayor of Belgrade, and the younger one is retired in time because he is incapacitated. He is unable to work in the company, and he is able to be deputy mayor of Belgrade. There's something much more important here. Let's ignore the names, political parties, parliamentary groups, not to talk ugly about anyone, but to ask one essential question – should it be stolen in the state of Serbia? If it can't be stolen, then it can't be stolen anywhere, not in the National Assembly, not in the government, not in the ministries, not in public enterprises, not in the municipalities, not anywhere. If it can be stolen in the National Assembly, then, ladies and gentlemen of the ruling coalition, it can be stolen everywhere. You have legalized the principle of theft in the National Assembly. If someone takes from the official office of the SRS resignations and statements of the MPs, and once he says he lost them, and the second time he says he's got them, but he simply won't return them, what is it, he's stealing? You from the ruling coalition are pretending to be ignorant. What can we do, here, fight radicals, settle it elsewhere? Where else can a matter of mandate be resolved than, above all, in the National Assembly? In September, take the stenograms, Mr. Konstantinović said – just to give us your resignations, we schedule a session of the Administrative Board in 24 hours and solve the problem. Seven days of resignation in Mr. Konstantinovic's drawer. There is not even an announcement when a session of the Administrative Board will be scheduled. Says Mrs. Kolundjia, she'll be scheduled. When? Ad Calendas Graecas, when they produce grapes on the willow. When will she be scheduled? The National Assembly, gentlemen of the ruling coalition, is the place where the matter of mandate should be resolved, above all, at the session of the Administrative Committee. You have resignations, you have statements. Set up a session of the Administrative Board and start solving this problem. That problem cannot be solved on its own. This problem cannot be solved elsewhere unless you think problems are solved by physical force. You saw today, whenever I go out for a pay phone, those from "Forward Serbia" fall into the fire and want to beat Srboljub Zivanovic. It is one way to resolve the issue of mandates outside the National Assembly, but we will not. We want the matter of mandate resolved in the National Assembly. (President: three minutes and 30 seconds. I'm done. You have all the paperwork you need. If you are really attached to the principles of the Council of Europe, if you are not already attached to the Constitution of Serbia, schedule a session of the Administrative Board and start solving the issue of crime in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-29-0.u13547	There is no violation of Article 104, nor has there been an explanation for the violation of Article 104, and you have made a lie about the attempt to fight and the incident in the National Assembly. I warn you not to do this at the speaker of the National Assembly, that you do not deceive the public, and that you do not make false statements. National MP Zoran Popovic throws it away. I warn you that the discard is forbidden by Article 104. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The word has the People's MP Vladimir Milentijevic. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-29-0.u13548	Madam Vice-President of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, while the events in the KIM are being overcome by each other, we Members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia are wasting time on something that should be resolved. It is obvious that this conflict, which has been going on since September, has now culminated and is definitely paralysing the work of this congregation. The ruling coalition would have to solve this problem. How? As he knows, he has to solve it, because so far there has been nothing in a parliamentary assembly, in a parliamentary house, which could not be solved. I join all those who have urged us to do so immediately, because I fear that tomorrow, the citizens of Serbia will no longer have patience for it. To return to what I have reported to the Rules of Procedure, and I will say in the end, which member. In the debate on the first item of the agenda, DSS MPs presented all the negative effects of our delegation's inaction at the Council of Europe's session. The first negativity that our delegation did not take part in the session of the Council of Europe is the proposed text of the European Parliament resolution on Kosovo, which will take place in a vote in Strasbourg on 4 February, where it welcomes the successful deployment of the Eulex mission on the entire territory of Kosovo, including part north of Ibra. That's what politics says today. Since our representatives were not there and were unable to submit amendments to the resolution, this was done by our fellow MPs, Greek and Romanian. They asked for the Eulex mission to be status neutral and not to apply Marty Ahtisaari's plan. Those amendments were rejected. On the other hand, everyone in KIM is doing their job, except for this assembly and Serbian institutions. One of the fellow MPs from the SRS spoke earlier as the vice-president of Montenegro's Assembly... (President: three minutes and 30 seconds. People's MP, you didn't list a member who was injured, and you've exceeded the time. I'm done. Montenegro's vice-president visited Kosovo yesterday, where he expressed satisfaction with the start of resolving numerous open issues between the two states, to see what the position of the Montenegrin community in KIM is.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-29-0.u13549	You've been talking for four minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-29-0.u13550	I'll get back to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-29-0.u13551	National MP, you are required to specify a member of the Rules of Procedure who you consider to have been injured, if you receive a word over the order and on the basis of Article 100. In the course of your presentation, you interrupted yourselves, saying to me, "I will tell you who is a member, and you have not done it." I warn you that the use of the Rules of Procedure and the use of the right to the word implies that each of us MPs respects the business obligation, in which way he addresses it if he gets the word to speak of the breach of the Rules of Procedure. The word has been made by MP Zoran Krasic, wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets word on the basis of Article 100(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-29-0.u13552	Mrs. Comic, it's Article 104. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. You know, I rarely refer to that member for the simple reason that it's hard for someone to convince what the dignity of the National Assembly is. The National Assembly would probably not be able to protect its honor, given that it is a legal person, but dignity must have. It is certainly an integral part of this concept – the dignity of the National Assembly, the commitment to work in accordance with the Constitution and with the law and guarantees that the National Assembly must at all times ensure that it works in accordance with the Constitution and with the law. When one of the MPs comes out and says that this discussion is uninteresting to him, that basically this discussion is an unresolved problem, that it costs, I totally support it; it really costs, but if it costs so much, it could have been solved as early as September last year, so it wouldn't cost so much. Please understand one thing, there is no theoretical possibility that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, MPs belonging to one political party should be in two or three parliamentary groups. That is exactly what Mrs. Hope Kolundji and the people who run the National Assembly convince us. In these few days, you've had the opportunity to hear that these in the world, too, are experiencing this group of 21 MPs as if they were members of the SRS. It also stands on the National Assembly site, as presented by RIK, based on his report. Our Rules of Procedure do not allow members of a political party, as MPs in the National Assembly, to be in two parliamentary groups. Let me remind you, Mrs. Comic, since you are the chairman now, you said three days ago, I quoted you as saying that there is no difference between the parliamentary group and the political party. You see, I've announced that we'll get there when you notice that you've brought yourself into a very unpleasant situation. I'm going back to the central issue and I'm asking the citizens of the Republic to understand who this situation in the National Assembly is responding to. I can have the view that this is illegal and I can prove it's illegal, but it doesn't match the SRS. We have a shortcut to work in Serbia. When we find an answer to the question it answers, then you will see that it gives such interpretations, such promises – it will, we will, we will, we will never solve, they will never solve, they want to solve, they want a conflict situation in the National Assembly, in order to question the dignity of the National Assembly, so that, for years, a media campaign and an attack on the National Assembly as an institution of statehood of the Republic of Serbia. That's what you all feel.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-29-0.u13553	National MP, there was no violation of Article 104 and the president of the National Assembly, or I, if I had chaired, would have warned the MP that he had violated any of the provisions of Article 104 and did not give an explanation of the injury done. National MP Vladimir Milentijevic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-29-0.u13554	Madam Vice President, just to finish, I won't spend three minutes just to finish what I started. Art. 225 and 226. I've presented the reasons why the National Assembly should discuss the problem at KIM, so I'm asking for an article. In 225 and 226, a notice from the Prime Minister and the Government – whether it has any intention, and when, to schedule a session of the National Assembly to discuss all this with which, as the Serb community at KIM, we have problems. Thank you. I'm so sorry about earlier overruns.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-29-0.u13555	The National Assembly is scheduled by the President of the National Assembly, and the mandated promoter may be the Government or the Rules of Procedure. It's just that the session's scheduled to be held at the president of the National Assembly. The word is from MP Dragisa Djokovic, who wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets the word on the basis of Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-29-0.u13556	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm reporting for article 104. The Rules of Procedure, because there's been a mistake here, I suppose, out of ignorance. Lawyers will say whether ignorance can be an excuse, so that citizens of Serbia, those watching this TV broadcast, would not be mistaken. They may not know it, are not so trained and educated, but we MPs should make a distinction between the European Parliament, in which representatives of the Republic of Serbia and the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe do not participate. It's two completely separate things. In the resolution discussed by Mr Milentijevic, it is the European Parliament; it is the EU Parliament, not the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, for which we elect our delegates. So these are completely separate things and we couldn't participate in that resolution, there are no representatives there, so, Mr. Milentievich, you've completely missed the topic. I apologize, I have nothing personal, but in order to avoid confusion, it is about, what you read in "Politics", the text of the European Parliament's resolution, not the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, which is two completely separate concepts, so now it should be clearer for the citizens of Serbia to have that resolution, and if we had our delegation, we couldn't directly influence it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-29-0.u13557	National MP Vladimir Milentijevic, at the moment he was first given the right to speak about the breach of the Rules of Procedure, did not do any harm to the Rules of Procedure, but he did talk about the European Parliament's resolution and I couldn't tell him it was a lie, or a delusion, because he did not specify a member of the Rules of Procedure to which he called himself, and on the second date, when he cited the article. In 225 and 226, only then could I, since he was not talking about the European Parliament's resolution. You can tell by looking at the stenogram that I'm right. The word has a folk letter from Lidija Dimitrijevic, after which the word is spoken by the People's Messenger Milorad Buh.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-29-0.u13558	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am talking about a motion for a decision to amend the permanent composition of the RIK. In the light of the motion for a decision, as a reason for its adoption, the proposal stated: 'After the constitution of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the education of parliamentary groups in the National Assembly, in mutual consultations between parliamentary groups, it is agreed that it is necessary to approach the amendment of the composition of the Republic of the Election Commission to reflect its composition the proportional composition of parliamentary groups in the National Assembly. On the basis of the individual proposals submitted by the MEPs for the permanent composition of the RIK, the proposal for a decision to be submitted for consideration and adoption was drawn up. ''The proposal for a decision delivered and currently being considered cannot be adopted in any case, because it does not constitute a composition of the RIK that reflects the proportional composition of parliamentary groups in the National Assembly. The Law on the Selection of People's MPs, Article 33, found that RIK, in its permanent composition, appointed the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, on a proposal from parliamentary groups in the National Assembly. The right to make a proposal to appoint members of the RIK have parliamentary parties that participated in the elections. The parties that did not participate in the elections cannot claim the right to propose candidates for members of the RIK. On 11 May 2008, elections were held for MPs in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. In these elections, she participated, with her electoral list, the SRS. Based on her results, she had 78 mandates. A million 219 000 and 436 Serbian citizens voted for the SRS polling list -- Dr Vojislav Seselj. They put their trust in the list of SRS - Dr Vojislav Seselj and, based on their votes, found 78 MPs in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Now that the proposal for a decision on the resolution and appointment of members and deputies of the RIK members is drawn up, this proposal does not reflect the proportional composition of parliamentary groups in the National Assembly. The proposal for members is not proportional to the number of 78 members of the SRS. On the other hand, candidates who cannot become members and deputies of the RIK are proposed. They are proposed by someone who did not participate in the 11 May 2008 elections, so they have no legitimate right neither to be MPs nor to form a parliamentary group, nor to propose someone for somewhere. The report on the elections conducted for the People's MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was set out at the RIK session of 5 June 2008, and which RIK delivered to the National Assembly, says, under a regular number of eight, the number of votes and the number of mandates given to individual election lists. For Europe's Serbia -- Boris Tadic, with the number of votes won -- is top priority -- one million 590 thousand and 200 voters, and the number of seats – 102. The second is SRS - Vojislav Seselj, with a million 219 thousand and 436 votes and 78 seats won. Then the number of parties that won the mandates included DSS - NS - Vojislav Kostunica, SPS - PUPS - JS, then LDP - Cedomir Jovanovic, the Hungarian coalition - Istvan Pastor, the Bosniak List for European Sandzak - Dr Sulejman Ugljanin and the Coalition of Albanians Presevo Valley. Then comes a list of parties that have not won their seats. Among them are the Movement of Serbia - Bogoljub Karic, To be asked - National Peasant Party - Marijan Risticevic, Reformist Party - Dr Aleksandar Višnić, Roma Party - Srdjan Šin, Movement of My Serbia - Branislav Lečić, United Vlasi of Serbia - Dr Predrag Balašević, Civil Initiative of Goranac, Roma for Roma - Milos Paunkovic, Union of Roma Serbia - Dr Rajko Đurić, Vojvodjanska party - Mr Igor Kurjački, National Movement of Serbia - Milan Paroški, Montenegrin Party - Nenad Stevović, Alliance of Bački Bunjevac - Mirko Bajić iPatriotic Party of Diaspora - Zoran Milinkovic. As can be seen from this official document, neither among the parties who won the mandates nor among the parties who did not win the mandates, there is a name for members and deputies of the permanent members of the RIK proposed by Marina Djukanovic, Dejan Djurdjevic and Smiljan Stojljkovic. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, RIK is not a place to play, sing, dance, not a discotheque, no cinema, no theater, so that someone goes there for fun. RIK is an expert state body conducting the elections, which our President Vojislav Seselj said is the most important organ when elections are discussed. The Law on selecting Members of Parliament, in Article 28(3), says that all state and other bodies and organisations are obliged to assist the electoral authorities and to provide them with the information they need to work. That's why in one such organ, there can't be people in constant composition proposed by someone who hasn't participated in the election with his electoral list. Serbian citizens have made clear their will and, on the basis of this expressed will, on 11 May 2008, the 78 mandates in the Republika Srpska Assembly belonged to the SRS. The fact that Boris Tadic and DS don't like it, that's their problem, but they want to solve their problem by trying to legalise the dictatorship in Serbia, not taking into account what Serbian citizens have said in their votes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-29-0.u13559	The word has a folk MP Marina Ragus, followed by MP Milan Avramovic. The time available to the SRS parliamentary group is 43 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-29-0.u13560	Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Chairman, I really don't think I should repeat everything that has been pointed out today as an argument in favour of the behaviour of the SRS Parliament Club. You have had the opportunity to hear legal arguments from the Master of Legal Sciences, which have, I hope, their weight within the institution of the Serbian state system. I am certainly not going to deal with it, but what is not only an interpretation, but one of the arguments that the SRS has been pointing out for seven months, not because it is the cause of the disturbance on the political scene, that is, that one group has separated from the SRS and indeed, a disturbance within the political scene, itself and parliament, the most prestigious institutions of a political system, such as the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. We are witnesses, as well as citizens, I think, even if it is shown by existing public opinion research, they are increasingly seeing that the main problem is that the SRS is trying to fight for only one democratic activity of Serbian, politically civilized, cultural and educated society, regardless of the situations that happen occasionally, which is the electoral will of citizens. Serbian citizens should be reminded of all situations that could lead to tension in Serbian society, when SRS President Vojislav Seselj first came out with preliminary results and, whatever election will, because citizens expressed their will democratically, first congratulated those who won the highest number of votes. Every time there was a situation that, in any way, by rampaging the authorities, the electoral will of citizens had been annulled, it was the president of the SRS who was at regular press conferences after the elections being done who returned everything to the system institutions and was against ending the electoral will. So this is just a reminder, to see that we're just going on that path. The essence of all the problems and the essence of the blockade is an attempt to end the electoral will that took place on 11 May 2008, when within the proportional electoral system, within one electoral unit, which is Serbia, SRS - Dr Vojislav Seselj came out with his list, Dr Vojislav Seselj was the first on the election list to win 78 seats. We, as far as we're concerned, have done everything within the institutions of the existing system. A sufficient answer to why this agony lasts seven months and why this situation, which is completely abnormal and looks like political, legal and institutional chaos, is not responding to anyone, is precisely lying in the fact that the government is doing nothing, or is not responding in due time, and should only respect the democratic assets of Serbian society. So we've resigned for three MPs, and the other resignations are gone. For the situation, if I don't explain it in detail to the citizens now, the competent authorities will decide who's right. We will wait calmly, disciplinedly, for the decision of the authorities and hope that soon, soon, this problem will be solved. Citizens, in essence, should not deal with it, because the only thing they are expected to do is go to elections, express their will, and that no one steals from them, and those they voted for – to do their best to do just one thing that citizens ask of them, which is to provide them with a normal climate within which they will carry out their daily activities and live a life of a decent man. I will remind you, regardless of the interpretations that speak of not knowing much about the distinction of electoral systems, what is proportional – where votes are voted for the electoral list, and majority – where they vote for the name and last name that is highlighted in large letters, and the proposer is smaller, what is known as practice, and not only the Serbian radicals, but recently written about it. Thus, a daily reminded him of the practice that in similar situations, for example, in June 2002, the presidency of the Democratic Opposition of Serbia seized the mandate of 21 DSS MPs, and as a reason, riots were listed at Parliament's meetings. The next practice was in November 2004, when the DSS seized MP Dragisa Djokovic's mandate, who had previously moved to the Democratic Party club. That's why the Democrats boycotted, to remind you, a session that discussed the draft budget law. The next example was from November 2005, when the G17 plus Sofronija Čonjagic and Vesni Lalic were taken away. At that time, President G17 plus, who, for the truth's sake, remained consistent with his stance, said resignations were activated to prevent trade in terms of mandates in the Assembly and that, quite logically, the mandates belong to the parties. Finally, in May 2006, the Management Board seized the mandates of G17 plus Ksenija Milivojevic and Goran Paunovic. G17 plus activated their blank resignations. So, if you've advocated certain democratic fluids while you've been in the opposition, we expect that when you're in position and in power. That is, the topic, or Serbian radicals, did not escape the topic or factions, which are set out next in some other programming principles. Indeed, it is here to test the authorities – whether the government will provide a normal political, legal, institutional climate, within which we will try to amortise, not overcome, because now the state of Serbia is in a great deal of trouble, the effects of the global economic crisis. We will patiently, and only within the framework of the institutions of the system, wait for the next week, for the next 10 days, for the next month, if necessary, to see how the Administrative Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will react, or whether the government has the will and desire to provide a climate within which political dialogue between all parliamentary parties will be achieved, that we all finally begin to deal with life issues concerning all of our citizens, regardless of who they voted for, who can't wait. What is the application, in the end, and from this pay phone is addressed only to the position and authority, is that the sooner you provide conditions for the normal functioning of Parliament, and not only to Parliament, but to all the institutions of the system. It should be clear, though in the campaign against the SRS in the means of public information, it cannot be seen that the SRS is an opposition party. Mathematically, it doesn't make up a majority that can even decide that this year is 2009, because it's not there. The SRS didn't come out of some party and create a disturbance on the political scene, which will say, the SRS can't, everything, and that it will, bear responsibility for the new situation. You've taken responsibility, dear colleagues, and it's up to you to do everything possible to resolve the situation, completely disturbed, and no one on their cheeks. Finally, in the end, when I asked Prof. Micunovic, a logical question for this situation, in terms of who is really right here – if something happens, God did not give it, but it happens that one of the members of the 'Forward Serbia' club cannot carry out his parliamentary duties, from which lists you will replace that mandate, Professor. Micunovic sheretically threw -- well, from the Serbian Progressive Party list. That should be the answer to all our dilemmas. It should be an answer to us. Here, I want to stay, indeed, in the context of doubt, not to hurt anyone, but I am expressing my suspicion that the government is behind the totally illegal position of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, just by acknowledging the participation of those who did not participate in the elections. It's the only argument, and you can't defend it to the citizens, because it's indefensible. Finally, the SRS won't take the people out on the street, they won't invite international mediators, and all of this, gentlemen, when you were an opposition, you did, rightly, because it was usurped freely by the electoral will. We can only confirm that to you. We're not going to do this this time, we're going to wait for this problem, in the framework of the system institutions, in an extremely legal and legitimate way, to resolve it. Why do we want to do that? Because we are state-of-the-art and, if you will, a very responsible party, facing each other on a daily basis, among its own membership, with a growing crisis. One final argument. We will be very pleased with the fact that the Serbian government's management team will be able to resolve this situation, too, to finally bring Fiat to Kragujevac. Why? Because it's a good part of the cheap labor force that's going to work there, 3,000 workers, members of the SRS. So we hope that those who are owned will decide this, and we can only pray this way that what is within the existing institutions and laws will be done, as soon as possible, and that we civilisedly begin to solve the life problems that lie ahead of all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-29-0.u13561	The word has a folk MP Milan Avramovic, followed by MP Zoran Krasic. The time available to the SRS Parliamentary Group is 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-29-0.u13562	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, aware of the situation in which the Republic Parliament is located, we have no other way to express our dissatisfaction with what the ruling majority wants, which is to put illegal representatives in the RIK, in committees, delegations. We have proved through a number of examples how laws should be respected and how all these functions belonging to political parties participating in the elections should be distributed. What is a fact, and no one wants to understand, especially from the ruling majority, is that political parties have run for their representatives in parliamentary elections and that they are sitting in assembly benches today; they are not parliamentary or parliamentary groups running for no one and they are not sitting in benches today, so that the terms "political party" and "mbassy group" cannot be the same. What's even more important, the regular flow of democracy that you've been introducing to us since 2000, is that we can't hit pots, blow whistles, rip hair, jump on our heads, sue ourselves or anything like that to prove our dissatisfaction. We will present our dissatisfaction through the institution of the law, because it is clear that the law is on the side of the SRS. Here I have an entry into the SRS registry, a year ago, and a solution in which it clearly says that Dr Vojislav Seselj represented the Serbian Radical Party as president, as well as his authority, which, in accordance with the SRS Statute, gave to Vice President Dragan Todorovic. Dragan Todorovic, on behalf of the SRS, did not submit a proposal to the RIK or the Assembly to elect these people to represent the SRS. That's what you understand, what you want by force of the majority to demonstrate, by voting with 126 pressed green buttons, and by imposing what suits you. If someone doesn't have a moral dilemma, or has no cheek, or has to function in this House, aware of the fact that he took something that doesn't belong to him, imagine how he's going to propose someone who has to act morally and act by law, a pronoun who's illegal, illegal. How can we believe that these members of RIK will be quality and fair in the work that they have to do, when they have been delegated by someone who has no right to do so, someone who has committed the robbery, someone who has committed the crime and has obtained these crimes to himself and other assets, someone who has confessed to this crime? That morals do not exist, say the same facts that these individuals have said earlier, when it comes to parliamentary clubs, they also speak the statements given when the SRS was in a similar situation in 1995. It is a statement by the head of the parliamentary club, which has crossed and behaves, even worse than the MP who was bought by Bogoljub Karic. I would now quote, because of this morale, and the great moral value and the labels that the current head of the supposed parliamentary group, whose ideology is, I repeat once again – jumping on the head, suing yourself and pulling his hair, his words: "This is my message to all political parties," said Mr Nikolic, at a press conference on 19 May 2005, "or will now resist, or we will stop fighting politically. And what would we fight for if after the election we didn't know how many MPs? We will do politics from day to day, we will conduct campaigns, we will go to elections, and Bogoljub Karic will wait to buy all MPs who are elected. Where is the morale of the Constitutional Court? "Good question. "How many judges did Bogoljub Karic buy to make a decision like this? No one but Bogoljub Karic was interested in this decision." Be careful now, this very important part: "No politician in Serbia is responsible for having the MP in office." This is the famous story when Tomislav Nikolic says: "What if the mandate belongs to the MP, the MP dies, to whom will you give this mandate: to his son or to the party who has delegated him? "Now we ask the same question. Then he says, "Did the SRS win 82 seats? Well, we have so much to have at all times. Did Bogoljub Karic win any parliamentary seats? "Now I ask you, gentlemen "last resorts," did you win the election any parliamentary seats? "Well, he didn't, where did he get it?" And I ask you, no, where did you get it? "This is a simple matter, but this is a fundamental issue for Serbia. We're at a turning point. I wouldn't have to give up," said Mr. Nikolic. "As many as you have bad questions about politicians, insist on which of them is moral and who is not." I don't want to waste time quoting things now, because it is clear that Mr Nikolic's had to, but what I want to prove to the citizens of Serbia, including the MPs, is that on 19 May 2005, Mr Nikolic made one statement. "Radal leader Tomislav Nikolic as if he had not been very shaken that he had been left by an MP." Neither are we, let me tell you right now. "He added that the new constitution should prescribe that the draft electoral list should be open to mandates to prevent parties from entering the Assembly by buying MPs." Now let me remind you that Tomislav Nikolic was one of those politicians who said to himself that he was one of the founding constituents and one of the basic pillars of building a new constitution. By building the Constitution and Article 102. The constitution, it tried to honor itself and this statement it made, to protect the mandate of the MP in the best possible way. Since he now claims something quite different – that the mandate belongs to the MP, not to the party, after 18 years, I ask an open question: did he, when he was preparing the Constitution, know what he would prepare for the SRS and was he already ready for these moves he made in September and October, or did he do this out of ignorance, or did someone deceive him? An open question arises – what did he want with this constitution and with this statement, when his behavior coincides with the previous one? It'll be a dilemma for the members of the SRS for a while. One more thing. During October, Tomislav Nikolic has repeatedly allowed himself to share moral lessons, a man who, in the name of the SRS brand, has taken over or rather rerouted serious amounts of money, informing us of various people from all sides, in his pockets and in the pockets of his associates, who, like him, have issued dignity, honor and morals of the MP. When they betrayed their faith, they betrayed their name and honor, they betrayed both the glory of their ancestors and the future of their descendants, trampled party discipline, obedience to the highest party authorities, trampled the party's programme and statutes. Also, they broke their oath. The unity of the Serbian people and the state, political democracy, civilized legal order, economic prosperity and social justice, always and everywhere, will be the main objectives of our political struggle. He stole resignations from MPs who handed over their parliamentary mandate to the Central State Administration. At one of the meetings of the Serbian Parliament's administrative board, he said he took our resignations to free us from obligations. In other words, when he went into the split party and formed a new parliamentary club, which he did, as many MPs from the list of SRS - Dr Vojislav Seselj, to mention that he was also the bearer of the list and candidate number one for the MP, along with various blackmails, promises and fraud, he led to his betraying club. After 18 years of the existence of the SRS, for the first time MPs, city and municipal councilmen, did not take an oath. It was another form of acquittal, and it was an obligation to take an oath in the competent parish hall, the temple of the SPC. However, freed from every moral norm, and even the highest ones, Tomislav Nikolic has prevented from the mind that only those MPs who have never passed it, and that those who, even once for the same function, have never been freed from it, as long as they perform it. Of course, they cannot be freed from the high officials of any institution or organisation, if they have laid it once in their lives. During these shameful and difficult days of attack on the SRS, and by political prenuptiality, it says Tomislav Nikolic, and the political pastor, Alexander Vukic, the vast majority of MPs, who have never taken an oath, did not want to break basic moral norms and did not pass into that treasonous organization, and those who have no cheeks, were free of swearing in the Orthodox temple, they'sold faith for dinner', and God and the people see and know. Several times, Tomislav Nikolic of the assembly speaker told the SRS MPs that he had made them politicians and that he had brought them into the assembly. However, this claim is also false, because Tomislav Nikolic, some MPs, like all of us, especially those who have now crossed over to that traitor club, did not even know what they were called, not how they arrived at the Assembly. It is amazing that he thus addressed the university-educated MPs, masters, doctors of science, as well as other experts, whom he had only been following and learning from the media. The highlight of disquieting, cynicism and hypocrisy showed when he described the movements of the hand and body of the SRS MPs in front of the million-dollar auditorium, as he was reminded of the movements of the hand and body of the SRS MPs, while they pummeled the benches during the talk of members of the betraying club. He said he was reminded of an extended puberty "and in the way that young people satisfy their passions". Mica Rogovic laughs, he agrees. It's just amazing that uncontrollable passions are spoken of by a man who is because of the inability to control his passions and his depravity today where he is. I will also remind you of the case of Srboljub Zivanovic, that Mr Nikolic was considered a peaceful, calm host, and that you have on "You tube" a video of what this quiet and calm host looks like, titled "Toma Lion and Fine Some Man". You'll see on the party site and on the "you tube" how a nice host from Bajcetina behaves, who likes to bake brandy, who pulls hair, and then that ideologist of his, which threatens at the press conference that we'll all end up, that we're seciks, like this, and he's good, honest, so he jumps on his head and sues himself. There's one more thing I'd like to add, to conclude. The last sentence of the oath, which Tomislav Nikolic himself has passed several times, reads: "How I have respected and fulfilled this oath, so help me and God." What he thinks now and what Mr Nikolic is hoping for, whether there is a God at all – is a question for you, gentlemen of the DS, who by force are trying to introduce something like the fluid of democracy, which you yourself know is inconclusive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-29-0.u13563	Ambassador Veroljub Arsic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-29-0.u13564	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I've come to you for an article. 225 and 226. Rules of Procedure on the work of the Serbian Parliament, in order to obtain information that is important for the exercise of the duties of the MP. The head of the Progressive Serbia Group, SNS, Mr Tomislav Nikolic, requested from the secretary of the Assembly and professional services in the Serbian Parliament a report on the receipts of members of the RIK in 2009. To this day, such a report has not been delivered to Mr Nikolic, nor to the MPs, so I ask this question – is it true that Biljana Krasic, wife of Zoran Krasic, received 2.5 million dinars in 2008 to work in RIK? I ask the question – did Željka Radeta, the sister of the People's MP Verica Radeta, also receive 2.5 million dinars to work in RIK? Did an expert associate of both, a certain Biljana Shajin, receive about 1.4 million dinars to work in the RIK? Otherwise, they have been members of the RIK for ten years, so I ask the question - is this in line with the SRS programme principles and their fight against nepotism? I also ask the question - why do they have the moral right to mention the salaries of directors of public enterprises and institutions, to ask the question of what are the fees for membership on boards? Why do they have the right to speak about the representation of members of the RIK, or is it just a desire that one's sister, one's brother, one's wife, one's husband, be members of the RIK before the SRS?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-29-0.u13565	National MP Srboljub Zivanovic wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1). The MP gave up, apparently noticed that he had no injuries to the Rules of Procedure. Any injuries to the Rules of Procedure? National MP Srboljub Zivanovic wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-29-0.u13566	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I'd like to set up a Rules of Procedure. The 225nd and 226th question is probably the Ministry of Finance, or I ask a question for any ministry, and you, the chairman, say it is not a question for the ministry -- how is the defence of the Hague indictees financed, and who, in what way and how much does the families of the Hague indictees support? That's one question. The second question, I should probably ask the MUP again, or the Ministry of Finance -- which money is financed by the Vatican and the Pope of Benedict XVI by the departure of Alexander Vukic to the Republic of the Serbian Krajina? The third question concerns plagiarism, which you have kidnapped the name 'Forward Serbia'. You couldn't find that name yourself, for your fake MP group, but you took it from Professor Vojislav Seselj. All the time you've been here trying to justify your lies, your crime, your corruption, because Tomislav Nikolic and Aleksandar Vukic were looking forward to the election in the election campaign, because they knew how much money should be poured into their pockets, and we've been propagating SRS's ideology at the bar, you know that well. You know how much Alexander Vukic abused and tortured us at the bar, so that we could make SRS propaganda and keep him as much money as possible. As for that, Arsic, how much you robbed the SRS, dealing with finance, we also know very well at the bar. You should return the stolen membership you charged in your district. It's a big shame on you. I don't know how you got so much courage to come out here and talk about those villains. Perhaps your false political party should soon prepare your departure from this congregation hall, for you know well how false and in what way you came and shamed the SRS. You should be ashamed, both of you and your family, and your family and your wife need a good idea.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-29-0.u13567	Ambassador, I'm warning you. You already have two warnings, take care of the way you treat other MPs in the National Assembly, whatever MP group they belong to. The measure after two warnings is to take away words, one of the most difficult measures, and I warn you this time that this measure will also be made if you continue to violate the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-29-0.u13568	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I don't blame Mr. Srboljub Zivanovic, because man obviously doesn't have the right information. What a man does out of ignorance is not a great sin. As far as these famous memberships are concerned, I know who told him that and who lied, that's what's most about. Mr. Srboljub Zivanovic, I did not pave the way to my father-in-law's house, but Sasa Valjarevic, who told you that. It wasn't me who paved the way to my house, it was Sasha Valjarevic, who said and did it. I didn't hire a woman at the Public Enterprise Toplification, I hired Sasa Valjarevic who told you that. It wasn't me who gave the council members' mandates at Kučev DS, it was Sasa Valjarevic. I am not a member of the Management Board at the Požarec Development Fund, but Saša Valjarevic, who is the opposition. I am not the financial director of the City Cleanness Public Enterprise in Pozarevc, but Sasa Valjarevic. He grabs and takes wherever he can. Don't be surprised when it turns out the membership money ended up with him.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-29-0.u13569	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic. He is the latest registered speaker in the order of speakers reported for a word in the debate, and the time available to the SRS parliamentary group is 16 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-29-0.u13570	At Hope Kolundji's request, 15.5 minutes. Of course, Mrs. Kolundjia doesn't mind that I often use her name and last name during my discussions on the proposals on the agenda. There's nothing personal about it, but for the sake of the public, who should know what's on the agenda, I'd do a little review of what happened. On 5 December 2007, the National Assembly adopted a Decision on the discharge and appointment of members and deputies of the RIK members. That procedure, December 2007, I must say, was exactly the same as today, or these days. On the proposal of the parliamentary groups, such a decision is drawn up and, as a rule, these decisions, through the general consensus, have been adopted here, for a simple reason, which is why no parliamentary group wanted to discuss the candidates of another parliamentary group. Why do we say - candidates? The parliamentary group appears as an instrument, which proposes someone to be a member or a deputy according to a specific quota belonging to the parliamentary groups. The RIK mandate lasts four years. Article 30. Law on the selection of Members of Parliament. The law referred to in Article 102(2). The constitution of the Republic of Serbia is precisely this law on the election of MPs. The Law on the Selection of People's MPs from 2000 would probably have to be changed and brought into line with the new constitution, but when it is not done, then, under the Constitutional Law, we have one period when existing regulations are applied, until their compliance. On this basis, it remains in application of the Law on the Selection of MPs. Why? Because it is not in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and because no new law has been passed. Under the 2000 law on the election of MPs, he suffered one change, elections were made, and the 15 May elections were under the law. So, on December 5th, the presidents of parliamentary groups submitted proposals to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and on the basis of these proposals, the election was made. If we consider 5. 12. In 2007, and four years, this is not an emergency to change, but parliamentary groups have concluded that there have been some changes and that the composition of the Republic Election Commission needs to be changed. That's where we agree, Mrs. Hope. So if someone has some problem with the existing composition, ask their president of the parliamentary group at the time, in December 2007, who he proposed, why he proposed and how he proposed. That's where we're done with history. Now we're going back to something that's a cruel reality. The harsh reality is Article 33(1). The law on the election of MPs, where it is said that the National Assembly is choosing, but at the same time said - on the proposal of parliamentary groups. I have to say, since I've been on these committees for a long time, since 2000, the squirrel's been here, he's completely changed the form of jurisdiction and the way the commission works. The commissions used to be voting machines. According to the 2000 law, all members, deputies, etc., have become workers in some way. Why? Because they're co-ordinators on the ground, they're certifying election lists, they're carrying materials, they're making records, and so on. Now let's not spread the subject. All objections concerning individual candidates can be placed on the proposal of all parliamentary groups in the National Assembly. I will not object to the proposal of other parliamentary groups. And I'm just going to talk about that, according to this proportion that exists, the SRS has been prevented from delivering three proposals. I don't want to talk about names, how those three names came in here, who have nothing to do with the SRS as a proposer. Those three names are not SRS, he did not propose them. What's going on?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-29-0.u13571	I ask the People's Messengers not to earn or interfere with the speaker. People's MP, it's not a question of whether it bothers you, it's a question of whether or not it violates the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-29-0.u13572	What's this about? It is about respecting this proportion within the parliamentary groups. Just to remind you of something that is your position, like the ruling majority. It's in the stenogram. I have repeatedly noted this from this pay phone and two or three days ago it has been repeated with that pay phone there – that it is impossible for a political party participating in the elections to win a number of seats, that its MPs, who belong to one political party, are in two, three or four parliamentary groups. The provision of our Rules of Procedure on Parliamentary Groups suggests that the parliamentary group is a means of channeling work, but not an institution, is not an entity. We have a number of places in the Rules of Procedure and in some laws where a parliamentary group can report as a proposing of something, to some committee, in the election of the National Bank Council, that I do not order any further. We had almost a situation that should be changed by a member at the Auditory Institution, after one man resigned, someone else should come, so one parliamentary group found it appropriate to propose a candidate. They'll be in the assembly, they'll argue about it and so on. The parliamentary group is not an institution. He doesn't even have a legal personality. It is an instrument to express some proportion in terms of the number of MPs from the same political party. Where the political party does not have five MPs, which is minimum, proper fusion is allowed. Last time I told you, it was in our practice of some exceptions, consensually, agreedly. In the last term, Mr Chanka's party did not have five MPs, but had four MPs, so one of the political parties crossed over and became a member of that parliamentary group, so that, based on the belonging of that parliamentary group, the five-member group would have the fundamental right to have its representative on the agenda points, that he could talk for 20 minutes, that he had a proper proportion to that five-hour period, etc. The parliamentary group is a technical means. Nothing more out of it. You have put us in a position to appear three names, as proposed, and these proposals do not stand behind the SRS Parliamentary Group, or, as Mrs Comic says - the parliamentary group, the political party that is represented, since it is the same. There's no SRS behind those names. That's the problem. It's the prolonged problem of the first problem, the zero problem, which is not recognised, and this is the institution of the system. You had a chance to hear, our MP Milan was reading, he made some kind of retrospective of what was going on earlier, what was the practice of those mandates. You had a situation when there was a big DOS, so there was a big exorcism. You had a situation when it was G17 plus. The party has activated the resignations of two MPs. The board of directors accepted that. There's been a big debate. The two former MPs conducted the procedure before the Constitutional Court. That's the way. The political party has no subjectivity as the applicant of the electoral list. He can't proceed before the Constitutional Court. In such matters, the procedure would be initiated by a constitutional appeal. The SRS can't say that individual law has been violated. An individual could initiate proceedings before the Constitutional Court if he considers that his term of office has been illegally suspended. It's that prank that keeps laying around here. We're going to publish everything, there's no problem, I think the second book's out, there's two more in the press, this is going to be in the book as well. There's no problem. We brand everything for history, to keep track of how anyone acted, what who did, how he applied. I'm just afraid, if this work style becomes a democratic standard, do we, if we're in power tomorrow, have the right to change your standards? I don't share your thinking and your values, as you say, and Bodrum, and Thessaloniki, etc. This looks a lot like Bodrum and Thessaloniki. Officially, it's not written in Bodrum and Thessaloniki, it's written across the street from Nikita Rakic. If it becomes a fluid of democracy, if it becomes a pattern of behavior, if it becomes a criterion of value, how would you challenge someone who applies it tomorrow? He says, "I beg your pardon, but in your day it was so; why should we change it now?" He can't. It just doesn't work. This is in conflict with nature. He's in a big fight. We've started with 78 mandates. We have to have 78 seats all the time. When this call stops, we need to get out of 78 terms. The Democratic Party has so many. You can want an organization by the name of the electoral list. It's your will, but no one can scold it. We don't have Gonzales. We don't have a Gonzales that, if we invite him to come, he threatens to turn his hands and say, there will be bombings if it isn't respected, etc. One slap came from the Council of Europe. They're taking one man on paper to be a member of the SRS. You've had a chance for months to hear how disgusting that is to him. He doesn't want to be a member of the SRS. What are you making him do? Why make them ours when they're not? They don't want to. There was virtual money in America. This is where the virtual state appeared. How can you, for example, force Srdjan Milivojevic to be a member of another parliamentary group? He doesn't want a man. He can get mad at you, move on to others and take his mandate. What are you going to do? I took a name for nothing, because Lucky won't get mad. Any other name to take, what are you going to do? You have a problem. You don't have a solution. If you're trying to solve it in accordance with the law, we'll remind you how you handled it. One more thing, since this is coming to an end, you have to understand one thing. The greatest evidence in some procedure is a confession. If a man admits what he's done, there's no further evidence. We have a situation since September, that from this pay phone and in various interviews on television, newspapers, etc., one man said – they all signed resignations, statements. It's with me. They won't move me there, they won't move from the parliamentary group to the parliamentary group. Since that coup didn't work, then he says, "I'm sorry." That's my place, but I lost. It is indisputable, Mrs. Hope, that resignations and statements exist. It is undeniable that this individual does not want to allow it to be activated. This has its own dimension in terms of the indictment before the Fourth Municipal Court. I delivered you the paperwork here, a month and a half ago, in a debate, so I said, go ahead. I listened to what you said and we did as you said. It has some dimension, but you have to understand one thing, if someone from the Administrative Board, when considering this request for three mandates, asks a question, would very much like to do it, but there is no paper. Paper, in fact, exists. He's in that confession. I've got it, I've got it, I've lost it, I'm not giving it. You heard a few days ago what will happen to Todorovic's mandate, Vjerica, Krasic, Natasha, Gordana if resignations and statements appear now. Let me tell you right now, and there's a solution to that. In the 328th member of the Criminal Code of the Republic of Serbia, there is a position 2, which he says -- it is also punishable for trying. Let it appear, he's proven his attempt. The state's holding up. The assembly's holding up. The work of the legislative body is at stake. For what? Because the U.S. ambassador, an English ambassador, who was going to have an OSCE representative who was going to complain, will step on you from the DS for these mandates. Not you, Hope. When I say – DS, don't think it's you, I'm not my party, I'm not you, I'm an institution. You get threats from abroad, those factors. You know how the government was formed -- a little tycoons, few ambassadors from abroad, to cook, to get involved. These abroad are not responsible for the accumulation of the political scene in Serbia, but for the breaking, to be capillary, that the party has five or six mandates in the next election, ten or twelve mandates, depending on how many percentages show, this 20, this 30. Then they're mixing, so Serbia doesn't get out of this fungi. We don't want Serbia to be in the fungi. (President: 17 minutes, MP, time available to the MP's group has been used. ) Just one more sentence, Mrs. Comic, I know you won't be offended. We must all from the SRS fight for our 78 mandates, daily, in every place and on every item of the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-29-0.u13573	Since the parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or someone else who has not used his right under Article 93. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly? (No) I am concluding a single search on the motion for a decision, and since we have carried out a single search, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the table and on the proposal for a decision in general. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda – Proposal for a Decision amending the decision on the election of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia You have received a proposal for a decision taken by the G17 Plus Parliamentary Group. I remind you, according to Article 160(3) and Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Since the total time of debate for the parliamentary groups is five hours, I find that the time of debate is one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; the SRS parliamentary group is one hour, eight minutes and 24 seconds; the G17 Group of MPs plus – 28 minutes and 48 seconds; the DSS - Vojislav Kostunica - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; the Parliamentary Group "Forward Serbia" – 25 minutes and 12 seconds; the SPS - JS - 18 minutes; the MP group LDP – 14 minutes and 24 seconds; the New Serbia parliamentary group – 10 minutes and 48 seconds; the Group of minorities – eight minutes and 24 seconds and the PUPS Group – six minutes. I ask the MPs' groups to file for a word, with a number of MPs, if they have not already done so. In accordance with Article 160(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search into the motion for a decision. Does the proposing representative, MP Susan Grubjesic, president of the G17 Plus Group, want a word? (No) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? (No) Since no lists of parliamentary groups have been submitted on application for a word, I ask if they want the word of presidents, representatives or someone who has not used his right under Article 93. Rules of Procedure? (No) Before I conclude a single search on the motion for a decision, whether the proposing representative wants a word in accordance with Article 142. Rules of Procedure? (No) I am concluding a single search on the proposal for a decision. After having conducted a unique search, the National Assembly will decide on the motion for a decision in the voting day. Since the National Assembly has completed its discussion on the agenda item of this session, pursuant to Article 85(3) of the Rules of Procedure. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, set Monday, February 2, 2009, beginning at 11pm, as a day for voting on the items of the Third Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009. Thank you.
