ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23012	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in the amendment I submitted, I asked that a person who manages a particular fund may have a stake in the ownership part of that fund up to 10%. The amendment was rejected by the Government, or the Proposer. The reason is that it is desirable that investment fund management companies have a specific stake in the investment fund itself. However, I don't see where I am in my amendment, Madam Minister, asking that the fund management company has no ownership stake, I just thought it was more appropriate and better to be up to 10% of the fund's total assets, nothing more. It is even stated that in certain countries... The very explanation of the bill states: “We note that legal solutions in most countries prescribe the obligation of management companies to invest their funds in the funds they manage. “ I would like to know what countries these are, but I have no doubt you are right. I'm not going to check this out, but just tell me where this bill says the fund management company must have a stake in the fund. Nowhere, it was left to be by his free will; it may, if it please, but by law it doesn't. So how do you think you justify the reasons for the adoption of this law when you've left the possibility that management companies don't have to have their own assets in the fund? Because that's why you're proposing this bill, so that the equity management companies can gain more trust from other investors to invest in that fund. But I don't see where this management commitment is. That's the problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23013	Thank you. National MP Vladan Jeremic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Mr. Jeremic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23014	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the Serbian Parliament Group of the SRS, I have tabled an amendment to the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Investment Funds, which was requested to be deleted in Article 1 of this proposal. The reason for the submission of this amendment is, above all, the fact that this Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Investment Funds Act is proposed that the management company can directly or through related persons acquire investment units, i.e. the investment fund action it manages, up to a maximum of 20% of the net value of the fund's assets. The Serbian Radical Party is of the opinion that in this case the management company would assume certain rights and responsibilities that do not belong to it, in accordance with the provisions of Article 5. Investment fund law. This amendment was rejected by the legislator, who says that the intention of the bill is to enable the management company and its related persons to invest their assets in investment units and actions of the fund, which manages up to 20% of the net value of the fund's assets, and that this option gives additional incentive to the founders of investment funds to place their own capital in a way that promotes the operation of the fund. Furthermore, it argues that, in addition, it gives a clear signal to both existing and future members of the fund that the founders of the management company are ready to carry on their capital the risk of the fund's operations and thus increase the credibility of this financial institution. It is also noted that legal solutions in most countries prescribe the management companies' obligation to invest their funds in funds they manage. I will take this opportunity just to remind myself that the investment funds in Serbia are a relatively new type of participants in the financial market and that the start of work, i.e. the establishment of them, is made possible by law... (President: You are already using the time of your parliamentary group. )......................................................................................................... I will use a little, therefore, made possible by law adopted in December 2006. However, of course, nothing is ideal on the financial market, so there are certainly certain problems in the functioning of investment funds, and that was our attempt, as the SRS Parliamentary Group, to correct through amendments such a bill on changes and additions to the Investment Funds Act. There, first of all, was thought of professional management. So many investors have a dilemma that they are so-called. professionals better than them when selecting actions, because in case the fund is lost, the manager will also be paid in that case. Also, costs, or services, are charged through a fund management commission, which is charged by an investment company, while there is an entry and exit fee for the fund itself. Finally, when it comes to taxes, one who decides on investor money has no insight into investor tax obligations, and when selling certain securities from the fund manager's value, the issue of capital gains tax, which affects the profitability of sales, is imposed. Today, it is obvious that in Serbia, the time for setting up funds was extremely unfavourable. Of the total number of open investment funds, most of them are so-called. aggressive funds, which in the context of this global financial crisis show only their negative side, because they are mostly in losses, averages about 40%, while the assets of the funds are more than halved due to withdrawal by the fund members. There are some data that two funds are 55% lost, four funds lost at 45%, and two of these 14 open funds are assigned to a balanced strategy. Less is invested in actions, as high-risk and more in bonds, as debt securities of value. It is obvious that this investment funds industry in Serbia is largely shaken by the waves of the global economic crisis and are the most pronounced precisely in these high-risk asset-valued funds, the most felt by investment units is the huge decline of the stock indices in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23015	National MP Jelena Budimirovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Mrs. Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23016	We have submitted the amendment, as the Prosperity Group Forwards Serbia, SNS, to Article 2 of the amendment and the addition of the Law. It is about Article 8, which in the basic text of the law meant that the management company was obliged to hire at least one portfolio manager for each investment fund it manages, but also one authorised internal auditor employed indefinitely. We believe that this is a minimum prescribed by management companies and we really do not think that the financial crisis or any circumstances of the withdrawal of funds from this market should lead to the erasure of such a provision. The main reason for this definition is this: the development of financial markets is not possible without the business of investment funds. I'm not going to think of them as some kind of bookie, because we'll never be able to support it, and the place where you can make an enormous profit of up to 30% without risk, because that's never supposed to be possible, but in this country, in this company, the banks have to get competition. So, not only do they have competitiveness within their own banking system, that whoever has free funds invests in savings, but banks also have to get competition in investment funds, like organisations that collect free money. But we can't let them collect diplomas and have quality knowledge portfolio manager at this point, because of the cost of employers, become excess, in terms of -- we've invested in people and now that knowledge is crumbling, and that's the cost that doesn't bring the effects of whoever invested in their knowledge. Repeat, and you certainly know this, many portfolio managers rent their diplomas in such investment funds, as once in the development of pharmacy institutions and in the opening of pharmacies, because it was lucrative, many holders of diplomas, pharmacists rented their diplomas as a condition for opening these pharmacies. As a society, we cannot afford it. People trained to manage investment funds must have their jobs and we must not leave them on the street, because the interest of this society is that the development of investment funds is based on the right criteria and on the knowledge of young people who want to work seriously on the development of this market. Please think of the employment of young educated people, not just the costs of the owners of these funds.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23017	Thank you. National MP Boris Aleksic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Would you like a word, Mr. Buha? The government has accepted the amendment. Thank you for your help. The People's MP Lidija Dimitrijevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. I assume you want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23018	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 2 of this bill. In an explanation refuting the amendment, it was said that possible acceptance could lead to different interpretations and inaccuracies, which does not mean that it would lead to it. I think we've submitted a few amendments to this law that were really correct. Of all, you've only accepted two, and that's the total number of amendments you've accepted when it comes to this law. I think there was room to accept another one. Now I would only comment on a few things in principle regarding this law, and that, Madam Minister, is that this is the second law that you or your ministry present before the MPs of the Serbian Parliament, and that no one mentions the European Union in the text of arguments. That's good, which definitely in that government is someone who recognizes our problems and our interests. You have well mentioned here that the reason for the adoption of such a law is a drastic decline in the volume of stock trading, a decline in the value of the assets of the fund industry, a lack of financial instruments, and an increased risk of investment in other forms of assets. It's really good that you admit this, it would just be more correct to exploit these findings publicly; it might have a positive effect on the rest of the government or on all those who financially manage our lives. This gives the impression that whatever objectively characterises our financial situation is used for the purpose of making some partial solutions, i.e. to justify the need to define some members in laws, members who have a feedback. It is a member of the 23rd law, under which certain provisions of this law will apply from 28 March 2009. What I would also comment on, and as far as this law is concerned and mentioned in the same law, it is the Commission for Securities of Values. Madam Minister, they're running out of mandate, too, if I'm not mistaken, in August of the month, so we're interested in you telling us when we're going to enter the procedure for selecting a new securities commission. Or are you going to manage the senseless, to say, provision of a law that defines the selection of the commission, that until the election of a new commission, the Commission will carry out the duties of those elected in 2004? When it comes to the Securities Commission, it would be very interesting to deal with (publicly or not) the assets of certain people who are there today, talk about the same, about the period when it is acquired and how much it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23019	Thank you. On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Antic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Just sign in, please. Here, you have a word, you have to sign up, just once.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23020	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 3 and I have received the government's reply, but I do not think there is enough understanding between the SNS and the government, or that the government did not understand what the Serbian Progressive Party Tomislav Nikolic wanted to achieve amendments to the Investment Funds Act. Our intention was, first of all, to make this area of investment funds more serious, to make sanctions for those who do not respect the law itself much more stringent. What we are dissatisfied with, in particular what I have submitted to the amendment, refers to qualified participation, i.e. to obtaining that qualified participation. So far, the previous law has not regulated this, but unfortunately, amendments to the law have set out one penalty which, according to us, is very mild – means the loss of voting rights in the event of the acquisition of qualified participation, i.e. most, without the consent of the Securities Commission. We are convinced that such a solution represents an indirect call for the Commission's lack of respect for securities of value, and the importance of the Securities Commission is exceptional when it comes to the financial market. Therefore, in order to get into a situation where minority investors have more confidence in investment funds, to have more capital brought into the financial market and, as Mrs Tabakovic said, that funds compete with banks, we need to have clearer, more serious legislation. In that sense, I think the government has, in some ways, taken a step back and hasn't quite answered the moment we're in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23021	Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23022	I am amazed that the government has not accepted my amendment, because what does "skilled participation" mean? If someone has action in that quantity to ask more questions and decide, then I guess the word "qualified participation" should replace the word "actions", because the basis for such an enhanced decision is the property part. But it doesn't matter now. The important thing is that the concept of Mladjan Dinkic's investment funds broke. For ten years now, I have been constantly pushing for this topic to be opened, but in 2006, you left and you made a mistake. It's not clear at all what concepts you've accepted. We now see that it is desirable that the management company has investment units and actions in the investment fund, and when the law was passed, it is said that it should not be. Now it's a European standard, now it can. You have standards changing as weather forecasts change. But we do all this for free if we don't get the payments back to SDK. Let me explain it very simply. And the insurance company, and the investment funds, and all those who could trade a little bit with their capital, have to do it through banks, and the banks take it, they don't blame it, they don't owe it, because the payment traffic is in their hands, they're all smoke. The extra funds you have to give to the banks for safekeeping, and the bank places it, it takes interest, and it pays you some symbolic interest. If we want a normal society, then let's get rid of these human soul traffickers. It's the banks, they took 400,000 out of this country last year. Four hundred million euros! The country is the most in charge, the citizens of the poorest, and the banks draw profits from Serbia, the banks expand. You have six different banks in the same building. Only banking business is booming. Something absolutely abnormal is happening. Let's get the pay traffic back to SDK, make it go back, make sure the Kajmak don't bring mobsters abroad.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23023	Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Does anyone want a word, despite the government's acceptance of the amendment? He didn't become an integral part of the text, so I have to ask. No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Srboljub Zivanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 8th Amendment with the correction was submitted by MP Radojko Obradovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Beard.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23024	I thank you, Madam President, Madam Minister, this is an extremely important law, and during this debate in principle and in particular we have had three points. I think the only minister will be able to tell us what it is in common, except that she represents them on behalf of the government, for the investment funds law, the state aid law and the traffic insurance law. I've read it carefully, but apart from the various aspects of finance, there are no other common elements. This is an extremely important law, which should regulate a very important area. What is most important to us is whether this law removes the key problems that exist in this area? Is it just these few, a dozen amendments or 15, how many amendments to the law, is that the key problem we have at the moment with investment funds, but also with the entire securities market? Our amendment was just about to expire the government's obligation to create opportunities, but also the obligation of the state to make all the participants in any business in the state feel their share of responsibility. Of course, anyone who invests certain funds must bear their share of responsibility, whether it invests them in production, whether it invests in savings, a bank, or invests them through investment funds. The State cannot and must not take responsibility for those market participants. In our opinion, the state must not do this, but also, in our opinion, the DSS opinion, at this point, the key problem is not these proposed changes. The key thing on the securities market is the central securities register of value. Let me remind you, it's that register we couldn't determine how much the director has to pay. And when she said how much pay she had, it turns out she didn't report any bonuses, which she didn't count as a salary. Apparently, the woman, the lady, she takes it pretty literally; if you say pay, she says what pay is, doesn't take into account what is formally called. The second key issue in the securities market is the Securities Commission. To solve the problem of this area, we need to focus on these two institutions. Not to mention how many problems there are in working with the Commission, which does great things on all days, and on every serious and large problem it shows that it is not up to its task. Not to mention whether her term of office expired, and all those things that the new law would have had to remove. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23025	Mr. Milos Radulovic wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23026	I'm reporting from the Rules of Procedure, Article 27. It is the office of the President of the Assembly to take care of the order in the Assembly. I am in an air line practically two or three metres away from Mr. Obradovic, and I would ask you to ask colleagues from the ruling majority to quiet down and die. It's better that those who don't care about this matter and this law go out to the lobby to talk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23027	Thank you. My fellow Members, I ask you to give Mr. MP a suggestion that we may allow every speaker to be heard. The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Dobrislav Prelic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23028	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, of course this amendment has also been rejected. I will read only the last sentence of the reasoning that the amendment has been rejected, so as not to waste my time, since the explanation is very long: "This decision has also been reached by the legislator for reasons of further compliance with EU directives in this area. “ I think it’s absolutely clear that you’re doing everything by the directives and so it has to be. The funds, not just these investment campaigns, otherwise they serve us as pre-election campaigns, to fool our citizens, and to keep nothing from these promises. One of these funds is also the Fund for Capital Investments of the AP Vojvodina. The last division of the Vojvodina Capital Investment Fund was so selectively made that it was simply astounding. One decision - 1.222,635,339 dinars, Odzaci municipality received 5,81,000; the second decision - 2.267,820,000 dinars, the municipality of Odzaci received 34,000. Bruca and shame! You in the pre-election campaign, where the Democrats are in power in Vojvodina, except you don't pave the way for gardens, and one municipality that applied to the Fund, over two billion are covered by projects, you heard how much funding was granted. Of these thirty-four million, eighteen million were approved for the construction of the Gracac-Kruscic road, which should be a regional road. Well, that can't even get the works started, it's just that the eyes of the citizens are blurry. But that's not a problem at all, it's something else. The Ojaci municipality is currently the only free territory in Vojvodina, because you failed to bring the SRS down from power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23029	The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. Does anyone want a word? Member of the 8th amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. Does he want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23030	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Investment Funds, Article 8 refers to Article 30, where the Proposer provided that points 2a) and 2b should be added in paragraph 1. The SRS parliamentary group has tabled an amendment at point 2b where it is said that up to 20% of the assets of the investment fund can be invested in the investment units of open investment funds which are not managed by the same management company. The Serbian Radical Party believes the 20% amount should be replaced by 33%, as it would in that case meet the objective and purpose of the Investment Funds Act. What is evident is that this is, in practice, a new area and that we should have in mind experience and other countries, for example, for Croatia, where it is clearly shown that it is necessary and significant time, and good propaganda and, of course, education in order to actually activate investment funds in the right way, i.e. to activate and save the population, which is one of the basic assumptions, and thus become respected factors on the domestic market. What is the biggest problem in this whole story, that is, the problem facing future managers of investment funds, is the choice of charters to invest in. With the fact that the market capitalisation of the Belgrade Stock Exchange is higher than ten billion dinars, however, a lack of the largest domestic companies so-called. ‘blue chips’. Public enterprises and large systems, such as NIS, Telecom and similar, are practically a capital market, because these are also the companies for which institutional investors, investment pension funds, insurance companies and the most interested. It is clear that these professional investors are receiving material in which they can invest and thus place accumulated domestic savings in the development of domestic companies, and the state should have at its disposal a market mechanism to determine the price of any sale of its capital in those companies. In doing so, the stock market company does not affect the country's definition of when and to what extent and to what extent it will share its co-ownership with its strategic partner. Also, by using a position on the capital market, companies themselves will be able to generate cheaper investment funds for further development by broadcasting new securities from the value of the collection. In case, however, such companies do not appear on the stock market, it is clear that domestic investors will lose enough quality records in which they can invest, so, according to the natural tendency of capital to create a yield, as well as by the nature of their activity, they will seek yielding opportunities in other countries. In such a way as a state, we can come into a paradoxical situation that, as a country that needs development funds, we become capital exporters and thus finance other people's development, while our economy would depend on expensive loans. Also, in the event of a possible sale of state capital in these companies without their exit on the market, someone will always be able to ask whether the price reached could be higher. After all, I think we are witnessing that even after a long time since the sale of a package of shares of some companies in public, there are still controversy about the level of the sale price, the way they sell and so on. In addition to all the provisions provided for in the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Investment Funds Act, as well as the Law itself, I do not think that many of the ambiguities that exist in this area will be properly regulated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23031	Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Jorgenka Tabakovic. Here you go, Mrs. Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23032	Article 9 or Article 32 of the basic law defines the investment of assets of an investment fund in accordance with the limits provided for by this law and the prospectus of investment investments. I think that the method of harmonising and maintaining these prescribed rules that has previously been defined by Article 32 and how it is now amended by Article 9, and primarily that those excesses that are defined by law can be exceeded within the first six months of the establishment of investment funds, should really not be defined in the way you have suggested, because what you think will be the exception that you need to cover the legal provision will become, in the experience of our and your, collectively, in fact, a rule of conduct. So the first six months of investment funds won't have those 200,000 euros in fixed capital to function. I think the delay in the deadlines for harmonising the established excesses, three plus three months, is really not well defined enough, as a law, and it's about something that's the current situation and the current crisis. These are circumstances that those in the investment fund cannot influence, but we cannot do for something that is temporary, which we expect to end, like a crisis, to bring legal solutions that will actually mean liberalisation in a otherwise very sensitive area, such as investment funds. So, the limitation that you consider an exception will become a rule of conduct, and you don't realize that, even by your own recognition, investment funds say they have a problem with asset depletion, not only because of the crisis, but also because of the need for an investment public. We all agree that this is true, and we are forgetting the key argument why the assets of investment funds are being cut off – because we are taking too much care of the financial sector and we are not working to strengthen the real sector, which is also the basis for a quality investment unit in which investors could invest, and we are not working on having citizens in Serbia who are going to make a living and have extra funds that will be able to invest either in the bank, or in a voluntary pension fund or in investment funds. This is a fundamental problem, which generally does not pay enough attention to the government's economic policy and to the change of legislation at the moment. Another proof that I'm right about what investment funds are counting on, that they don't count on the extra funds that citizens will have from their salaries, as the rest that can invest in any kind of delayed spending, is the following: money on domestic grounds, recognised by the knowers in this area, could leave and have only balanced funds, which will invest a significant part of their assets in safe securities of value, which are bonds of old foreign currency savings. Dear government and dear citizens, there are no quality actions here in which citizens can invest, because they have no money, but no investment funds, because we're falling stock value because we didn't make sure that our measures, which we could take in time, are strengthening this real foundation of our lives.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23033	Member of the 16th Amendment was submitted by MP Jorgenka Tabakovic. The word is Jorgenka Tabaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23034	I'm a little surprised this law hasn't caused enough interest among fellow MPs. It is a very important law and was one of the better laws given, how can I say, the seriousness of defining restrictions in the business of investment funds. Article 16, as defined now by the amendments to the law, which can extend the debt of investment funds to banks from 90 days to 360, so that they can not only work on their liquidity contract, but that they can have repo contracts not only with banks, but with other investment funds, that total borrowing can be increased to 20% (and in the previous solution there was 10%), talks about the government's determination to do everything, and almost impossible, to keep investment funds and capital of investors in these funds. I think that the minimum objectivity in what is called the basis, as real production and what is upgrade, which is the financial sector, at this point and in this law, has to show that we are aware that inflating the balloon is the value of actions, financial markets, is not a good way to develop the financial market. You know as well as I do, that investors in these investment funds have withdrawn after that first tide where they could make significant profits, which went up to 30% for individual stakes, and that the consequences of the overall poor condition, the state of fear and uncertainty, will not be able to be recovered as a good climate and the development of investment funds, whatever measures the government has taken at this point. So, on the other hand, it can create not a sense of neglect as an unreal feeling, but rather a perfectly rational and evidenceable sense of real sector neglect, in which this government does not invest sufficiently in loose regulation where possible, and that is, for example, possible. payment of taxes per realisation, not by invoiced but by the paid realisation. But that's why the development of financial markets gives way to all restrictions, and we know it won't have any effect. I don't think this is a good message for participants in economic life, for participants in the financial market. You showed them that when they ask for an amendment on their round tables and media promotions, you do it very quickly, in a way that is inadmissible to the Assembly, because on the day you sent this law into the procedure at the same time you let the regulation which you have already put most of this law into legal traffic to facilitate their business, and you have not stated it in any word in the law's reasoning. You've brought us not into the sense of injury, but into an inadmissible sense of subordination, because even though this matter is about the business of investment funds, it must also concern these branches of government that decide on it. I don't think these measures will bring any effect, but they compromise the government's intentions against other actors in economic life.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23035	The 17th amendment was submitted by MP Radojko Obradovic. Do you want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23036	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Minister, in the light of this law, it says that these changes are primarily proposed because of the global economic crisis. How does a global economic crisis, if it wasn't for you, or if your coalition partner or your colleague minister says the worst is over and the crisis is behind us? Why are we changing the law if there's no crisis? When we look at the data... Let's stick to the topic of whether the crisis is over and whether the crisis is still going on. I have an interview with Mr. Vice President, so if you think he didn't say he did, he did. If you look at the data, of course it was encouraging, April continued on its own, but when we look at the latest data you published, between January and May this year the revenues were 231,000,000 dinars, and the expenditures were 275,000,000,000, with a deficit of 44,000,000,000. It is not up to us to remind ourselves that a little over a month ago we adopted a budget rebalancing that envisions the revenues of 650,000,000,000, expenditures of 220,000,000, while the reported deficit is 70,000 million. I say reported because the Roads Directorate, or Roads Company, will never pay back the debt, so it's actually the country's deficit, the twenty billion. If we look closely at the projection and what awaits us in the coming months, if the situation is not worse than it is now, then if this dynamic continues, the total income would be 550,000 million, another hundred billion would be missing. What is particularly worrying is the structure of income. For example, VAT – 21,800,000 billion were charged in May, or 18.3% less than in the same period of the previous year. In January-May, 125,000,000,000 were charged, i.e. a real 17.2% less than the previous year. When we look at the structure of tax revenues, all income is significantly lower in May than in April, although we have passed a set of laws that should correct it. Income tax is significantly lower. Accises, which is interesting, have been significantly increased by those amendments to the law, and in May are significantly less than in April. All in all, quite worrying data. Anyway, it's hard to say, based on the May data, that the crisis has hit the bottom and that the crisis is something that's past. More like we're at the bottom and we're at the bottom, so it's a little better for a few months, and someone's a little worse. I expect to see what will be the outcome of the agreement with the International Monetary Fund. There's been a lot of talk here yesterday about this agreement, but first of all, I'm interested in some other aspects, not the ones that were talked about yesterday. In fact, Serbia has committed itself to something called structural conditionality, so before the meeting of the IMF's board of directors, an obligation was made to complete the contribution with a memorandum which will detail the measures in the event of unforeseen circumstances, as well as the role of the National Bank, the Government and the Deposit Insurance Agency. Could we as the National Assembly see what these measures are or is it some special secret, which should not be known to us, from this agreement with the International Monetary Fund? The second thing is particularly interesting, the deadline has not yet expired, but by the end of June the Deposit Insurance Agency should adopt detailed action plans for the remaining state-owned banks. It would be particularly interesting to have information in the congregation about what action plans are. This analysis is very interesting for us, an analysis to be made by the Ministry of Finance, which should make a special working group to examine the reasons for the sharp growth of VAT returns and loans in 2008. In terms of analysis and overall economic policy, this is a particularly important thing for us. This time I won't ask you how the issue of my own income was solved, those 40% of my own income that should be returned to the budget. But I must warn you of an extremely high deficit: in the first five months 44,000,000,000. I don't know if it's true that in April and May alone, there was an increase in government debt from four and a half billion dinars to forty billion dinars. I found that information somewhere. I'm saying, you have the exact information and it would be good if this wasn't true. Since you're nodding your head, I'm guessing it's not true. I must warn you that such a high deficit is not sustainable for a short period of time. The question is when will the banks stop being interested in state records? The longer term is also not sustainable because it is difficult to repay such loans. This is where we opened the issue of borrowing the National Bank of the IMF. It is a public debt, not a public debt, however, under the National Bank Act, if the National Bank cannot repay it, it will be returned by the State. And the National Bank is probably part of the state, three billion euros is 10% of GDP. Taking into account all the loans that are being negotiated, for infrastructure, for budget support and everything else, we are now in a situation that in early 2011, the total debt, public and private, will be 80% of GDP. It's all a matter of concern. It's good to send optimistic messages, but the message that the crisis is over based on this data is anything but the truth.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23037	Thank you. Since we have completed a review of the draft law in particular, does the representative of the proposing Dr Diana Dragutinovic, the finance minister, want to give the final word? (Jorganka Tabakovic, from the post: Do the authorised representatives or presidents of the parliamentary groups have the right to speak?) There's a joint search. That's what I'm gonna ask in the end. If anyone wants to do it now, they can, but since the search is united, I'm going to ask that at the end of the third point from this set. You're right now, if you will. Does anyone have a desire to use the time of a parliamentary group, or an authorised representative? Here you go, Mrs. Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23038	So, from the time of the authorized representative. I only want to conclude with two sentences this part of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Investment Funds Act. Highlighting the importance of the financial area is somehow given to all of us by the changes and additions of this law and by the way that it has been done. I would not answer to say one important thing in this time, but precisely for the reasons of the overall importance of money control and the importance attached to the financial market. The view that money control must be independent and out of the influence and domain of politics means, in fact, that money is out of social control. I don't need to do that again. It was contained in the answer to the question of our fellow MPs why we didn't ratify the IMF loan here. Out of the independence of the National Bank, out of the independence of its way of managing money drawn from the domains of politics and the National Assembly, society, politics, and MPs have lost the right and obligation to ratify such an important document. When the government is denied, and we are someone who supports or does not support the government, when the government (you said, that contract can be found on the NBS site), when the government as a government gives up control of monetarys, then monetary policy takes over what is called government and parliament, though indirectly. The price of this policy and the price of such independence is on all of us as citizens who will have to bear interest in loans and terms of credit or arrangement, as you call it, with the IMF. So the cost of such relationships falls on the burden of citizens, through the acceptance of selling some important companies that manage huge resources, to complete privatisation, even though world trends are in the opposite direction. America is a statesman, and we are being ordered to privatise the rest of what we have control over as a state. Not to change management, not to regulate surplus employees, but to privatise at all costs. As far as it got us, we know. How much we are in charge and from which income we will pay interest on these debts, even if they have been invested in infrastructure projects, which is only justified, remains to be appreciated by all of us together, but do not keep us in the belief that we do not know that the independence of the National Bank, or control of money, has left both the government and the Government without control over what is called borrowing. The government probably did it voluntarily, but in this home, I claim on behalf of those citizens represented by me and my MP group and the SNS, we certainly did not willingly leave that decision, with serious consequences, not to the government, or at least to the National Bank. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23039	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? Mrs Dragutinović, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23040	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the People, I thank you for, this time, a very peaceful, discussion. The fact is that there is no agreement on changing this law and that is normal, but definitely what consent exists is that the financial market in the country of Serbia is undeveloped; nor is it related to the international financial market, nor are our companies and businesses connected, or dependent on our financial market. When we talk about the lack of development of the financial market, I mean, above all, a small market capitalisation, a small number of shares, bonds, quality securities of value and a very unequivocal financial market. Also, when I talk about the lack of financial market, I mean a relatively small number of funds, at this point I think 15 funds, 13 open, two closed, the value of the property is almost minor. The value of the assets of all the funds at this point, that's at the end of March 2009, barely crossing a billion dinars. Not only is the market small, it's very volatile. In this period, which is less than a year, traffic has fallen by more than 50%, as well as stock prices. It is certain that for no change you cannot be sure what effect it will cause, but all of these changes, especially changes in art. 6, 29 and 30, intend to encourage the development of the financial market, reduce the volatility of the financial market and allow funds to function in times of crisis. So all changes aim to increase rather than reduce or close existing investment funds, especially in the current conditions when we need more institutions to mobilise savings. This is a financial crisis. I know there are signs along the road on the world market, where the financial crisis is relieving. Those signs are still missing when it comes to Serbia's market. The fact is that the state's revenues in 2009 are nominally lower than they were in 2008, the fact is that expenditures are nominally higher than they were, but the deficit is not in itself bad. If investment is behind the deficit, that's fine. If there's a state wish behind the deficit that... It can't neutralize, but let's say, to mitigate the excessive drop in credit activity of banks and private demand in the current conditions, it's a cure. The deficit is also sustainable in the long run, if used for investment and stabilisation. When it comes to fiscal incomes, I don't think it's right to compare only April and Mayan data. April and May had a significant number of working days. One working day means more than three billion public revenues. Also, excise revenues in April, as it was an unworkable day, were transferred to May, so that only on April and May, by comparison, we can't tell how much public revenues really fell in May. What is undeniable is that, however you look at it, however you reduce it to the number of working days, the revenues of the state are lower in the nominal sense by 4 - 5%. This is expected, given the decline in the social product that occurred and the even greater drop in demand, and we know that fiscal instruments are mainly related to demand and income. For now, that's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23041	I thank Dr Dragutinović, Minister of Finance. I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 5th point of the agenda – PROPOST OF THE LAW ABOUT THE OBLIGURANT OSIGURANJ IN SAOBERJ (individual) You have received amendments submitted at the proposal of the Law by the MPs: Milan Avramović, Nikola Savić, Milan Škrbić, Dragan Svevanović, Marina Raguš, Dobrislav Prelić, Dragan Živković, Boris Aleksic, Dragan Todorović, Milorad Buch, Elena Bozarić, Gordana Paunović, Mirko Čikirović, Milan Aćimović, Milutin Jelić, Aleksandra Budimirić, Ljiljana Milajrić, Dušanka Pljević, Gordjana Žalović, Milović-Milović, Zlata Djerić, Zoran Šami, Zoran Šami, Arsen Đurić, Žirić, Jelić, Jelina Budimirović, Lijeljmirović, Lijeljan Miljana Miljadjan Milajović, Miljavić, Miljavić, Miljavić, Miljavić, Miljavić, Miljavić, Miljavić, Živić, Živić, Živić, Žović, Žović, Živić, Žović, Žović, Živić, Žović, Žalić, Žalić, Živić, Žalić, Žalić, Žalić, Žalić, Žalić, Žalić, Žalić, Žalić, Žalić, Žalić, Žalić, Zalić, Ž. National MP Sasa Dujovic, written on 9 June 2009, withdrew the amendment to Article 23. You have received the Government's opinion on the amendments made. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Avramović.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23042	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have been actively considering this bill, and we will actively participate in the discussion of details. If you take into account the huge number of amendments tabled by the SRS Parliamentary Group, we will try to fix this law as best as possible and point out the failures and irregularities in the proposal itself. Namely, I have submitted to Article 1 an amendment requesting that the words "the Guarantee Fund is established, its jurisdiction and the way of financing" be deleted. I must also point out that, as with the current draft laws, we have been strictly against the expansion and accumulation of the administration and of any state authority, especially considering the economic aspects and the crisis. We can absolutely conclude that the formation or establishment of another state body, such as the guarantee fund, is a non-road, cost-effective move by the Serbian government. What the Guarantee Fund guarantees and regulates are the powers of sublegal acts, which are not specified to us here. What should be helping Serbian citizens is that an unsecured society or a vehicle or a person who has caused damage can escape the site of an accident, while this guarantee fund in some way compensates for the damage. The fact is that the guarantee fund, if we have in mind that the government has it, can't have insight into all the damage on Serbia's roads, can't have an insight without co-operation with the traffic police, with the criminal police, because if someone commits a traffic violation and escapes the scene, the process must first pass from that second aspect, the police, criminal, and then the guarantee fund reacts to defuse the first person involved in the accident. That is why I thought that this guarantee fund should not exist, that it should be arranged as it has been arranged so far – with a compulsory insurance company, if there is one, and if not, to compensate for damages through judicial means, as it has been so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23043	National MP Nikola Savic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Mr. Savik.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23044	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 2. The proposal for a mandatory traffic insurance law, thus adding a new point 5 after point 4), which speaks of the fact that rail traffic should also be mentioned in this law. I want to point out that rail traffic is a traditional kind of traffic, and I don't even think anyone should be reminded of that. We all know that the train is a means of transport, and I think this is how you discriminate against rail traffic. There's something else I want to say about this mandatory traffic insurance law. This is a very important law and it is in the most direct way related literally to every citizen of Serbia, because every citizen is, as a pedestrian or as a driver, a traffic participant. However, like all the laws it proposes and passed by this government, this mandatory traffic insurance law is unsettled. It contains provisions that can be interpreted in one way or another, and there are also many provisions in this law that cannot be applied in real life. The traffic safety law should be compatible with the mandatory traffic insurance law, however, when one and the other laws are looked at and if compared, we will see that in certain members, in many provisions, in many things these two laws are in a certain dissension. That's why I find this law very bad. I'm not saying it's not necessary, and it's necessary, but it's bad for the next reason. First of all, I really don't see a reason why this law was in such a hurry, if we see only its last Article 117, where certain provisions of this law will come into force at different times; one third of the essential provisions of this law, relating to insurance, enter into force when Serbia is an EU member and no one knows when it will be. Furthermore, the essence of this law is to prepare the ground for foreign insurance companies, foreign insurance companies, something similar to what we had with the banking system and foreign banks. All that is predicted by this law will, in essence, inevitably lead to the collection of mandatory insurance. It should not even be reminded that at the time of this general financial and economic crisis, it creates additional problems for our citizens, and the benefits will come from foreign insurance companies and foreign companies, as well as from foreign banks, which was just mentioned by counterpart Zoran Krasic. This government doesn't know what to do, but it's hitting the driver's pocket, and that's the easiest thing to do. It's always the easiest, but it's not the only way, it's not even the right way, but it's the easiest way, everyone knows it. It hits the driver's pockets, either through an increase in insurance premiums, either through an increase in the price of gasoline, and we know that the price of gasoline in Serbia is higher than in any other country in the environment. Furthermore, all the jobs related to this insurance are carried out on the route of the National Bank of Serbia - insurance companies, and all other institutions are bypassed: professional association, AMSS, associations of technicians, engineers, etc. Everything is left to the financial powers that have caused this economic crisis. Let me just say, in this law (there are a lot of amendments, I'll talk about it later) is a special story of a guarantee fund, which represents nothing but another government agency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23045	You spoke for more than five minutes, so it's from the time of the parliamentary group. Otherwise, I won't interrupt the MPs, you can control your own time, whether you want to go up to two minutes or beyond, so it'll go from the time of the parliamentary group. The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Milan Škrbic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23046	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, anything that stands in the light of the proposed law can indeed be listed as true. So, the problems that really need to be addressed in the area of mandatory traffic insurance stand, they're defined. However, not to be a dilemma, the SRS considers that the solution proposed in some parts is superficial and that you really did not essentially define yourself to respond properly. I will talk more about it when I talk about my next amendment to Article 23, where in a really explicit way it has been shown that a really superficial approach to solving is made, i.e. predicting certain solutions. Through this amendment, I have tried to suggest that a certain agreement be made between this law and the Traffic Safety Act. It seems to me that, although you had the opportunity to listen to the debate about it, we insisted that certain laws be brought into line because of the fact that they cannot be applied to practice because of disagreement... At that time, there were a lot of words about it, even the representatives of the government agreed to it, tried to install some of the provisions we proposed through the amendments and tried to make certain changes and accept them as necessary in the next few months, until the entry into force of the Transport Safety Act. That's why we used to run it here. We felt that the definition of which a car accident is defined in the Traffic Safety Act could be applied here or another way to make this term "a car accident" the same, or to find a solution to be in agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23047	The People's MP, Marina Ragush, submitted to the Third Amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dobrislav Prelic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23048	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS thinks this is one law that is needed, but we also think there are many bigger problems, which the government needs to solve, and Mrs Dragutinovic, in a concrete way. That's what Mr. Stevanović explained to you now, what's good about this law. But we're swamped by calls from our citizens, especially farmers, since you said in your closing statement last night that agriculture wasn't damaged. I just can't believe you said that, Mrs. Dragutinovic. On two occasions, the budget rebalance was removed, with the first budget of four and a half billion, and now four and a half billion again. The only thing left to do is to destroy agriculture, in addition to everything you have destroyed in Serbia. Do you know that the first cuts began to be cut, that the price of cattle barley is five dinars in advance, and the rest – how the market is supposed to dictate, or how the tycoons dictate? Do you know that wheat will not surely be more expensive than 9.5 dinars and that the loaf of bread of 600 grams is 38 dinars? It's just amazing! But it's just another one of your assignments to throw Serbia on your knees. This unilateral application of the trade agreement has led agriculture to the fact that simply our farmer has no solution anymore and that he cannot survive in this way. I hope that you will take some concrete measures, and given that this is a united debate and that we will have time in the day, I think that, as a responsible person, you will try to answer some questions that we will ask you for the sake of the public and for the sake of our valuable people, farmers, who deserve it anyway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23049	Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Zivkov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Todorovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23050	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable citizens of Serbia, I have directed, on behalf of the SRS, an amendment to Article 3rd point 9) and I have asked for its erasure. Point 9), I will have to read it, it says: “The maximum allowed mass of aircraft on take-off is the maximum allowed mass of aircraft on take-off corresponding to the approved mass specific to each type of aircraft and which is established in the assurance of aircraft navigation. “ Look, this is a tighter term, which does not need to be built into legal regulations. Why? Because you have provided for basic concepts used in insurance in article 3. This is a term that is narrow and there is no need to build it into a legal project. What's to be built in? Only basic concepts used in insurance, and special standards, rules or, in this case, one special situation in air insurance should not enter the legal projection and be incorporated into the law. The same is the case at point 8 – special right to draw, point 6) – multilateral agreement. This is where you said it was an agreement that was concluded between national insurance offices, etc. That's tight. The multilateral agreement is a far broader legal concept, and you've narrowed it down here. You had to specify that it was an insurance agreement and then give its definition, because it often appears in this legal regulation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23051	National MP Nikola Savic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, sign in.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23052	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 4. The proposal for a mandatory traffic insurance law, so that it is changed and it should read: “All the holders of the means of transport referred to in Article 2(1) of this Act are required to conclude the mandatory insurance contract in traffic before the means of transport is put into traffic.” Why did I submit this amendment? The text that stands in the law creates a certain ambiguity. I think this way better defines this law because, as I said, it refers to all the participants in the traffic. However, as we can see, the government has rejected this amendment: "The amendment is not accepted for reasons which are only a legal-technical order. “ In the light of my amendment, I have essentially stated that the amendment is a kind of legal-technical editorial, but this is how it is given in the amendment more clearly and certainly better interpreted. Here, government representatives again showed stubbornness – it is important not to accept an amendment coming from the opposition parties, whether it is good or not. Because, basically, the government agreed in its argument with the explanation that I gave in the amendment, but still did not accept the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23053	The 5th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Elena Christmas-Talian. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Antic. Does anyone want a word? Mr. Antic wants to.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23054	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Serbian Progressive Party has submitted a series of amendments in order for this mandatory traffic insurance law to be as easy as possible, to be implemented as possible, to make it easier for citizens to benefit from it. I have submitted to Article 5 an amendment which is essentially intended to apply from the moment the policy is concluded. The amendment changes attitude 5, which leaves that possibility only after 24 hours. I think there should be some understanding for this amendment. I think the law unnecessarily interferes in this area. This area and these issues should have been left to the insurance companies to resolve and it was not necessary for this institute to be found under the law. So, I'm sorry that the government, or the Ministry, didn't have enough understanding, because I think it would be important to make life easier for the driver, the citizens, by the fact that the policy, at the moment that they might need it most, is starting to flow from the moment they conclude it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23055	The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Chikiriz. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Radovanovic, who wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23056	To Article 7. The draft law by the SRS parliamentary group, whose representative I am, submitted the amendment. The amendment requires that the first and second positions be deleted and that instead of these three positions be one position in Article 7 of this proposal of the law and that it reads: "The dinar equivalent of the sum of the sum of the sum, i.e. the collateral claim for minor damages and participations in damages under Article 92 of this Law is calculated at the middle rate of the National Bank of Serbia on the day of payment of the adverse event. “ However, in the position of the 3rd proposed law in this article, it is absolutely the same definition as in the tabled amendment, with only one single word difference; in paragraph 3. The bill states: "on the day of the occurrence of a harmful event", and we in the SRS are asking this amendment to make payments in dinar equivalent to the determined amount on the day of payment of the adverse event, due to inflation, etc. This is where the legislator provided for, in point 1, as well as in the title above Article 7 of the insurance and secured sum, where the differences in those two terms are not precisely specified, and Article 2 may be contradictory, as it obliges the insurance company to pay the secured sum, the highest, as provided for in paragraph 1. However, the contract can also provide for a higher amount, so that the higher amount is higher than the amount of insurance or secured sums. Furthermore, deadlines are scheduled – a few seconds have elapsed beyond my time for this amendment, just to say - in Article 25. The bill, which the insurance company can disabuse, to abuse, from 14, 45, 90 days, etc. I don't have time anymore.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23057	The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Acimovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs Zlata Đerić, Milutin Jelic and Aleksandra Ilic together submitted the 7th amendment. Mr. Jelic wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23058	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the President-in-Office, the respected finance minister, New Serbia has tabled an amendment to the proposal for a mandatory traffic insurance law. In Article 7(3), after the word ‘cursion’, the word ‘euro’ is added and the words ‘on the day of the occurrence of a harmful event’ are replaced by the words ‘on the day of payment by a compensation claim’. Reason: It is a very common practice to manipulate and delay with the payment of damage claims, which creates additional difficulties. It would be fair to make payment on the day of the reparation claim a set amount in line with the official mid-euro course on that day. It is also important to specify in the law that this member, i.e. the interpretation in item 3 applies strictly to the course of the euro, not to some other currency.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23059	The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dušanka Plecevic. Does anyone want a word? Mrs. Plecevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23060	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 8. The proposal for a mandatory traffic insurance law, which reads: Article 8(4), after the word “debted”, adds the words “to delete the other part of the sentence at the request of an authorised person personal data and data on insurance”. The proposed amendment excludes the possibility of manipulating personal data by unauthorized persons, as other legal regulations are regulated who has the right to take personal data from citizens, even if they were involved in a car accident. First of all, no traffic participant can judge on the spot who has the right to apply for damages. This is determined by the examination of the authorised authority and by the court procedure. This stance is not in line with the Transport Safety Act, although the government claims in its argument otherwise. The driver's actions towards the government's draft law would in no way speed up the processing of the compensation requirement. Therefore, there is no regulation that can force citizens, participants in a car accident, or any other situation, to legalize one another. In my opinion, it should be a voluntary decision of the participants to whom this member refers.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23061	The 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Paunović-Milosavljevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Savik Nikola. Just again, you didn't register.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23062	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, colleague Gordana Paunović-Milosavljevic has tabled an amendment to Article 9. Proposal for a traffic safety law, and so that this member is completely deleted. Why is this amendment, or erasure of this article proposed? For the reasons that these members are authorised by society to collect, store and make available numerous data on natural and legal persons. We don't think it should do that, because there are other institutions that collect that data. In fact, by forming one of these databases, on the one hand, a new power center is being created, and on the other hand, this new powermaker, which is the worst, sets out himself the conditions for keeping them and making that data available. There's nothing in the law that stands on whose request anyone, even if it's an insurance company, can give up information about a particular person. For example, someone comes out of nowhere, and by this law literally anyone could be looking for information about a person, and you're obliged to give him information. I remind you that there is a law on the protection of personal data, not that personal data is literally on the table, whoever is asking for it, so here's the information, especially what practice says is abuse of other people's personal data and how it is possible and how often it happens. So a man, neither guilty nor indemnity, can come into a situation to be a participant and an accomplice to a crime, precisely because someone has misused his personal data. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23063	The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 11th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Shami and Arsen Djuric. Mr. Shami wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23065	Madam President of the Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Madam Minister, I must say that I am very disappointed, because the DSS has submitted only eight amendments to some key members with the aim of correcting the law, we will talk about them all, and no amendment has been accepted. I also said in principle that unfortunately, this law shows that we are not ready to apply any European value in this area and that we want to maintain the status quo, i.e. a kind of hiducia that's been in the field of traffic insurance that's been going on for decades, and we don't really want to change anything. It's looking at two things: on the one hand, there are things we don't want to change at all. That's the case with this article 11 that I'm going to explain. On the other hand, and when we want to change something, then we delay those changes for two or three years, and even indefinitely, that is. Until the entry into the EU. By not accepting any of these amendments of ours, you haven't convinced me it's different. What's this about, Article 11? I will read it because it is very short, it says: "The provisions of this law do not apply to the transportation resources of the Serbian Army. “ In other words, the Serbian Army has means of transport that are not secured and damages in traffic, no, I don’t see how or who will charge. We suggested something else, of course. We suggested that this member read: "The provisions of this law do not apply to mobile weapons and special transporters of the Serbian Army. “ So it’s not about those motor vehicles that don’t really participate in traffic, regular traffic, but we don’t see any reason why they don’t refer to passenger cars, buses, trucks of the Serbian Army. I know hundreds of cases of my acquaintances who couldn't possibly collect the damage, if they crashed, God forbid, with some military passenger car. Who's gonna pay them? God pay them? Or they should sue the state, so that if they were tried, I don't know how many years, that maybe, and probably not, they'd charge for it. I'd like someone to answer me why the Serbian Army doesn't need their cars, buses, which are regular means, they move on the streets every day, on our roads, and so on... I'm not talking about some special military transport, I'm talking about the normal participation of those vehicles in traffic, why isn't that charged? No Army money to pay for insurance? Then who's paying for it? Citizens? Do you define traffic insurance or define the robbery of citizens, that is, the tax that citizens necessarily, when registering cars, have to pay? Then call it that, you don't need insurance. You say there's no insurance, you pay a tax. Anyone who wants to drive should drive at their own risk. This is one of the many examples that you don't want to change anything. You're full of Europe's mouth, and you know how far this is from Europe? This is a long way from Europe. Do you know which states the army is untouchable in? In those countries where the military junta rules. Is there a military junta in Serbia, so the army should not provide vehicles? I have to admit, I'm completely amazed that you didn't accept this DSS amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23066	The 11th Amendment was submitted by MP Milutin Jelic, who wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23067	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the respected chairman, respected minister, New Serbia has tabled an amendment to the proposal for a mandatory traffic insurance law. In article 11, "Serbian armies" change in the words "fire departments and emergency services". The real reason to be excluded from the provisions of this law is only vehicles of fire departments and emergency aid, because these are vehicles whose purpose indicates that traffic must be involved with increased risk, as the need to arrive on the spot is such that it does not allow detention. In these conditions, accidental traffic disturbances may occur. It is only necessary to exempt these two services from the provisions of this law and to regulate them by means of a sublegal act.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23068	The 14th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic, who wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23069	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I've asked that in the note 2), which refers to the insurance of passengers in public transport from the consequences of an accident, including car training vehicles. Namely, what's this about? If we take into account the term public transport is something that should classify those transport layers and societies that should have compulsory insurance, why not auto-schools? If we take into account the fact that the main ownership structure of the car-school is such that car-school owners themselves are instructors and that those with car-school vehicles can also do private jobs, they can also do some kind of abuse, such as breaking the rules of the car-school service, such as the introduction of persons on the highway training, such as coming to the home address of persons who are being educated or returned from the time of driving to the home address, in the whole context of the relationship where the abuse of the car-school vehicle can occur, I asked them to be obliged, those who will make passenger insurance contracts, especially because the person performing education is not able and has no final conclusion that they can manage the motor vehicle, more specifically, driver's license. The point is that in the event of an injury to any other traffic participant, including the person who is conducting the education, it should be compensated if there is a car accident. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23070	Member of the 14th amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric, who wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23071	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, Madam Minister, although you are looking with antipathies at amendments which are proposed to delete certain members or the views of certain members, I am pleased to submit this amendment on behalf of the Serbian Radical Party, and I will only remind the public that this is about the mandatory provision of passengers in public transport from the aftermath of the accident. The following point is added: ‘Owners of means of transport carried out by public transport of passengers are obliged to conclude a contract on the insurance of passengers in public transport following an accident. “ So this attitude is necessary, and then it is said who is all obliged to conclude such a contract, that is, to ensure that the accident of transportation is secured. Article 5 is replaced by the following: ‘The owner of the means of transport referred to in Article 2(2) shall be obliged to indicate in a visible place in the transport and ticket the information on the completed insurance contract referred to in Article 1, in particular the name of the insurance company and the rights of passengers under that contract. “ Madam Minister, sometimes the citizens of Serbia realize that this really is the government's domino, that there are no smarter and more far-reaching jobs, so they simply make up some accusations for those people who are trying to get along and provide for themselves a job because of your promises there is nothing. I'm surprised you didn't predict, let's say, that the owner of a taxi or a bus, however, who transports in line or out-of-line traffic has to put his driver's license or license to make sure he owns those documents. This is completely pointless. It's enough that the owner of the vehicle has a contract to protect against the accident of transport, and where he's going to point it out, whether or not he should point it out at all, it's completely irrelevant. In this way, it seems to me, even favor certain insurance companies that would thus advertise in passenger transport vehicles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23072	National MP Jelena Budimirovic submitted to the 15th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljiljana Miladanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 16 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milutin Jelic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23073	Dear fellow Members of the People's Parliament, the Honored President, New Serbia, has submitted an amendment to Article 16(2), which reads point 1) - after the word "euro" - the words "in the dinar equivalent at the middle rate of the National Bank of Serbia on the day of payment of the compensation claim"; point 2) - after the word "euro" are added to the words "in the dinar equivalent after the middle course of the National Bank of Serbia on the day of payment of the damage claim" and point 3 - after the word "euro" are added to the words "in dinar equivalent according to the middle course of the National Bank of Serbia on the day of payment of the damage claim". The explanation - in the legislation of the Republic of Serbia cannot stand the figures expressed in euro, because the euro is not Serbia's official currency, so any cash payment must be realised in dinar value, because you yourself know that we have a currency of dinar, not a euro. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23074	Member of the 16th Amendment was submitted by MP Elena Christmas-Talian. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 16 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buha, who wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23075	On behalf of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 16(2) and suggested that the words "16 000 euros" be replaced by "1.600,000 dinars". What is the meaning of this amendment? The meaning comes from the provisions of laws that define the means of payment in the Republic of Serbia. The only means of payment in the Republic of Serbia is the dinar, and in legal, sublaw and all other legal acts as a means of payment can be the only dinar. In Article 16. The proposal for a law relating to the amount of the amount secured is provided for a foreign means of payment, we do not know why. If you left with the euro, by yesterday the money was the only means of payment, maybe something changed tonight? On the other hand, if you saw this in this article as a particular accounting unit, as a means of payment, or in this case, the amount of the amount secured, then you had to show in other members of the monetary unit, instead of the dinars, the euro. It is inappropriate to cite the euro in one member and to cite dinars in others. Or maybe this current government is counting on certain inflation? Well, you could, like we used to, in the 1990s, put points into legal projects and contracts, make points. I don't know what this is about, and I'm asking for an explanation from the motionary.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23076	The amendment was submitted by MP Milan Veselinović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 19 of the amendment was submitted by MP Jorgovanka Tabaković. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23077	Article 19 defines the liability insurance agreement i.e. insurance policy. Paragraph 3 states that the insurance policy form of the 1st member of the press National Bank of Serbia, the Institute for the Making of Coins and Coins. I'm asking the amendment to delete that article. I think the NBS, first of all, doesn't deserve to get this job for at least two reasons. One is that it does not deserve to receive additional income, because what it should have as a lever for managing economic policy in the part of monetary competences does not use in a way that would be in the interest of Serbia's economy, nor Serbia's citizens. Secondly, I ask the promoter, in fact, the public, what does the NBS qualify, or the Bureau for making bills and coins, to issue these policies and to print them? Are you having an affair with your passports? Did the pressure on participants in passport printing, where she introduced new contractors, press the existing ones to get out of work, probably motivated by good quality passports that don't pass at many border crossings because they're not right? Are they qualified by the NBS and the Department for the Making of Coins and Coins, all of which, with severe public suffering, brought stories about the purchase of quality paper on which bills were printed, or the signature of Governor Dinkic, for which a timely large amount of money was withdrawn from circulation, and that we have never been provided data on how much damage we have paid as citizens for someone's whim, for someone's negligence or abuse, except for one very visible and public, clear damage to the non-domestic business and use of public funds?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23078	Member of the 21st Amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. The word is from the MP Nikola Savic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23079	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 21. The proposal for a mandatory traffic insurance law, so that Article 1 of this Article is amended and reads as follows: ‘The owner of a motor vehicle whose use has caused damage’. Namely, I will read this article in the law: “The owner of a motor vehicle whose use has caused damage, for damage to things. ” I believe that no one here can agree to this formulation, and that's why I suggested that this member be changed. Again, as in the previous amendment I was talking about, you explain that it is only one legal-technical order. However, I believe that the Government and the Proposer were able to respect this, and I am deeply convinced that what I have proposed through the amendment is better than what is in the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23080	Members of the 21st Amendment were submitted by MPs Mico Rogovic and Jadranko Vukovic in the same text. The word is from the MP Nikola Savic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23081	I'm reporting from my colleague Vukovic's amendment. A colleague, Jadranka Vukovic, submitted an amendment to Article 21 and deleted in the first point of point 4. In fact, this member foresees something that is completely unusual in traffic, which is that the transport of nuclear material is carried out by auto-responsibility vehicles. I would like to remind you that vehicles subject to auto responsibility are mostly and often passenger vehicles. I think we all know that nuclear material is not transported by passenger vehicles, except when it comes to smuggling and illegal operations. On the other hand, if this is put into law, I'm asking the promoter if he may have any knowledge that the transport of such material is carried out by these vehicles and is it really necessary for this to enter the law? If this is really the way you suggested, then you ask one other question, and that's the safety of all traffic users. I don't think it's necessary to suggest how many problems and how much danger nuclear material can be transported by highway or through populated areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23082	The People's MP Zlata Djeric submitted to the 21st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 21 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Bozidar Delic. Does anyone want a word? Mr. Arsic wants, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23083	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to ask the legislator of this law whether this law was written by the Government or just adopted by the Government, and it was written by the insurance company? The law, as it is, is not in the interest of the insurance company, but is written and conceived to protect insurance companies, at the very least by abuse. We have two amendments, Mr. Mic Rogovic and Bozidar Delic, which relate to the situation where damage cannot be charged based on mandatory auto-security. On the first basis, it is said that the damage cannot be charged "as a result of the fact of nuclear energy during the transport of nuclear material". So if a citizen has insurance, he's on the highway and his vehicle suffers damage from the nuclear energy that someone transports, he doesn't have the right to collect the damage. Are these insurance companies immune or are they just meant to protect as many policies as possible, and that when it comes to damage, there it is, just when it has to? Or, an amendment submitted by MP Bozidar Delic, which refers to a part of the text that says it is not possible to charge mandatory insurance "due to military operations, military maneuvers, riots or terrorist actions, if there is a causal link between these acts and the damage done". Now, why don't you explain to me on what basis we release insurance companies if, for example, military maneuvers take the vehicle, it's usually transport vehicles, since the army has no more transport vehicles, from whom someone suffers damage, and if that vehicle is secured it's not possible to charge that damage, but to charge for it from the state? Madam Minister, would you consider whether you are for the state or for insurance companies? Should the state pay for damages or insurance companies if they are already receiving money based on a policy? Are you protecting some who earlier in the rebellion, because on October 5th there was nothing but a riot, caused damage to the citizens of Serbia's property? Stop that and stop protecting these laws of insurance companies. This law first has a purpose if it protects the insurance company and its interests, not the insurance company.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23084	Members of the 21st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Shami and Milos Radulovic. Mr. Shami has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23085	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Madam Minister, I continue where I left off. The next story also shows that we don't want to change anything in the insurance system, or that this government doesn't want to change anything. This shows you this article 21, which has been very competently spoken of by my colleagues from other parliamentary groups regarding other amendments. The Democratic Party of Serbia has submitted an amendment. Among the various, extremely problematic, provisions are said: “The right to compensation for damages, based on the insurance of self-responsibility, does not exist,” which states various points, I say problematicly, in order to read as a last resort, because this should be analysed, although my colleague Arsic mentioned earlier, cited “due to military operations”, I draw attention, military operations, because it is in a state of war, “war maneuvers”, it is in a peaceful state, “insurrection,” it can be an emergency and it does not have to be, “or terrorist actions... “ It’s just a matter of time before I go home. ” The terrorist action is a terrorist action, it's neither an emergency nor a war situation. Then there's no reason to charge the damage. So, the terrorist sets up an explosive device in the parking lot, God forbid, it explodes, 20 vehicles are damaged, and it doesn't matter! Who's to blame for driving the car and parked it in that parking lot? What's security for? Aman, who's the owner of the vehicle gonna sue? A terrorist? That's a lot of So we suggested something that was reasonable. We can respect the conditions of war (when it's war, then it's war and then we all get hurt) or some declared state of emergency, which is not so often declared, but there's an earthquake, God forbid. We can do that. But why in these other cases would insurance companies be considered to be fully freed from the need to compensate for damage to the vehicle in question? How does this say in European laws? Your mouth is full of Europe. This has no "e" from Europe either. I think in old Turkey, citizens had more rights than you give to motor vehicle insurance. I don't understand. You and this amendment have refused, as have my colleagues' amendments to this same article, and this is, believe me, absolutely pointless. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23086	The 22nd amendment was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 22 of the amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Vukicevic. Do you want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23087	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 22. The proposal for a mandatory traffic insurance law that I provided for, on behalf of the SRS, for point 1) of point 2 to replace the words "million euros" with the words "100 million dinars". I don't think that's unusual, because if I have to remind you, I will remind you that the Republic of Serbia still has its own currency and does not depend on the central bank of the European Union. I can still add here that the EU central bank has just proved unable to address the effects of the global economic crisis on the Union market. It has transferred responsibility to the national central banks of the Member States and has made it clear that the EU is a company for sharing profits and that it is not doing well in times of crisis, which, unfortunately, are inevitability and that is the daily life in which we live. I would like to remind you that the legislator of this law in the part of "The Reasons for Law Making" notes that the law is adopted for the purpose of enabling the preparation of the Republic of Serbia to achieve full membership in the EU, and on the basis of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement between the European Community and its Member States, on the one hand, and the Republic of Serbia, on the other hand. Ladies and gentlemen, it is precisely this unilateral application of the SAA, according to the Republika Srpska government's representatives, that costs Serbia 267.000,000 euros. That amount of money of 267.000,000 euros will leave the current government, as it is, out of Serbia's citizens' pockets, who are otherwise under the terrible burden of the economic crisis. I'd like you to consider this amendment, I think you should accept it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23088	Member of the 22nd amendment was submitted by MP Jadranko Vukovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 23 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic, who wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23089	The amendment has been submitted, above all, to warn that this system of liability insurance exists to compensate for damages, to repair damage to the vehicle, and not to preserve the premium insurance of the insurance company, and especially not that the NBS could know in advance what obligations insurance companies are up to, and then condition them in a well-known manner. This is a member of the regulation that there is an obligation to notify the insurance company of damage within three days of a car accident (in which someone may have lost his life and the whole family is in mourning). What is the purpose of the notification deadline? To protect the interests of the insurance company. And the overall damages procedure, both the quiet one and the one in question in front of the court, is also limited by time, in terms of the limitations of the claim. This issue should be resolved by general conditions of self-responsibility, which every insurance company brings, and not by raising this deadline to the level of legal provision, which would be misused after the insurance company so that the peaceful procedure would not be effectively completed, but rather by delaying and thus losing the basic purpose of this insurance, which is the compensation and recovery of damages in accordance with this law. You haven't adopted my amendment, you've adopted someone else who increases that deadline, but it doesn't solve the problem, from three days to 15 days, and it still gives a strategic advantage to the insurance company to harass a participant in a car accident, the one who suffered the damage and to whom there is an obligation to make up for the damage. That's why I'm telling you, there's a law to undo the damage, not to preserve the premium of insurance company.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23090	The 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic, who wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23091	Madam Minister, when I spoke earlier about my first amendment, I said that it would indeed be through this amendment and the story of it in an eclectic way to present the surface in writing this law. Otherwise, this Article 23 refers to a traffic accident notice and says: “The owner of a motor vehicle, or a participant in a car accident, is required to inform the responsible insurance company of a car accident within three days. "The Serbian Radical Party proposed, by amendment to this article, that the deadline be extended to seven days. Whatever a car accident is, man can't come to himself not after three, be it five days, and we thought it was completely irrational. We proposed a seven-day deadline, and then you informed us in this explanation that you did not accept the amendment because you accepted the second amendment that proposed a 15-day period. Who was irrational in there? You're the one who suggested three days, or the ones who suggested 15 days? We believe that the seven-day deadline, proposed by the Serbian Radical Party through its amendment, is absolutely acceptable and that you should have accepted this amendment. I agree with you that flexibility can sometimes be in the function of quality law enforcement, i.e. the provisions of the laws that you foresee, but it should have a measure. Sometimes this flexibility will produce exactly the opposite of intent, and so we suggest that you accept the amendment of the SRS, which here defines a period of seven days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23092	The 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Kasalovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 23, the amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic, who wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23093	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the government has accepted my amendment, but I'd like to explain it anyway, since I don't know if the committees are responsible, so it hasn't become an integral part of the bill yet. Article 23, as it is and as it is proposed, confirms that the law is designed to protect insurance companies. So the promoter predicted that the time limit for reporting damage would be three days. If a person is in a car accident, he is required to notify the insurance company within three days of the day of the accident. It's like broken windows, pots or torn shoes, not traffic. Will the owner of the motor vehicle be in a situation, medically capable of reporting to the insurance company within three days of the damage to the vehicle? Or will there be a lot of other, bigger, health problems in all of this? As far as the law is superficial and as much as it is for the purpose of insurance companies, we already see it in the next article, in Article 24, where it is said – if the insurance company does not supply a reasoned offer for compensation within 90 days... Be careful, the insurance company has 90 days to discuss and decide whether it will compensate and, if it will, how many, and the insurance company has three days, as is the bill. Some reasonable deadlines are even 30 days, but when writing this amendment, I was afraid that it would be for insurance companies, which apparently have lobbys in the government of the Republic of Serbia, to be too long, so I decided within 15 days. In any event, the Government, in addition to accepting this amendment, should also accept any subsequent amendments relating to the rights that insurance companies have in terms of deadlines and when they should act. These deadlines should be significantly shorter than the law provides.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23094	Mr. MP, the content of your amendment has been sufficient to convince the government, the government has accepted the amendment. The National MP Zlata Djeric submitted to Article 24 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 24 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Zoran Shami and Milica Radovic and the MP Sasa Maksimovic together submitted. Does anyone want a word? Mr. Shami.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23095	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Madam Minister, please and MPs from the ruling majority, they seem to count at all that they will ever have, God forbid, some kind of car accident, so they will have to charge their own insurance. I'm a little weird. In Article 24(3), it states: “If the insurance company does not supply a reasoned offer for compensation of damages, ” and so on, “in 90 days... “ It’s just a matter of time before I go home. ” So it takes three months to secure the institution, conditionally speaking, to make a fool out of itself, and it's gonna be crazy every 90 days, if that's allowed by law. Then follow what comes next, we can sue the insurance company and inform the NBS about it. Why 90 days? 15 years ago, I was in Germany with a friend who had one minor car accident, which he wasn't guilty of. The insurance company brought him a car, since his car had been repaired for three days, to use them for three days. It's a state of affairs in Germany 15 years ago. With us, one who is neither guilty nor debtor, suffers damage should wait 90 days, three months, for the insurance company to be merciful to answer whether there is or no grounds for compensation for damages. What do you suggest? What kind of law do you propose? Will you ever get in the car? I don't even understand the ruling majority who's going to throw all this away in a cold day, as if it's not about the widest interest of citizens. You're protecting an incompetent half-breed and totally failed insurance companies. In any Europe, neither in Africa could they work with such manners! We, the Democratic Party of Serbia and, on behalf of Mrs Radovic and I, have submitted an amendment where number 90 is replaced by 30, although I intimately don't think it should be 30, but come on, maybe it's complicated, so come on 30. At this rate, you can charge for insurance in two years. They reject you, you sue them, and you get in court, and then they complain, and then the court solves again, and in three years, God of health, you might charge some damage. I beg you, aman, 'you've coldly rejected these amendments. How can you not be ashamed? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23096	The People's MP Milet Poscurica submitted the 25th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Excuse me, Mr. Sasa Maksimovic first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23097	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honored Presidency, Madam Minister, the amendment that I have submitted to Article 24 reads: "Article 24 paragraph 3. Number 90 changes to number 30." It is entirely identical, meaning, in point, the amendment I submitted on behalf of the SNS Parliamentary Group with an amendment submitted by DSS colleagues, although without consultation, which should mean that this amendment is still good, meaningful. The government's explanation suggests that you were more guided by the interests of insurance companies than by citizens. This, I think, is what this article sees, given that the argument of the Government reads: “The amendment is not accepted for the reason that the proposed deadline is in line with the evolution of the insurance market, that is, the deadline within which insurance companies have to carry out all the necessary actions in order to properly respond to the damage to its request. “ What is this procedure, what are the necessary actions, so powerful and large, that an insurance company should do? Let's remind ourselves of what the procedure is, in fact, for seeking auto responsibility insurance: so, after the accident that happened, two hours of waiting for the police and it's not so bad; waiting for a police record from two to three weeks, then repairing the vehicle, then this time period that you predicted from 90 days and after all, a potential trial. So, a damaged face can say goodbye to its vehicle for five or six months, sure, or buy another one in the meantime so it can drive until this is solved and repaired. It is necessary, and I think you'll agree, to simplify the procedure as much as possible and reduce the deadlines to make it easier for citizens to make it easier for them to make up for the damage. In any case, with this bill, that will not be the case, and I sincerely hope that this amendment, as well as the other amendments to the SNS MPs, as well as a colleague from the DSS, will be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23098	Mr. Chiquiriz, by amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23099	I highly respect the reasons that respected colleagues have given for cutting this deadline, but it seems to me that a 90-day deadline is appropriate and I'm going to make the following argument. Under the military law, the former law on the Yugoslav Army, now the Law on the Army of Serbia, is also a deadline for the military to respond to claims for damages for 90 days. This provision is good for many reasons. That's what I said in the debate in principle. First, they avoid court proceedings. Believe that lawyers forced the parties and persuaded them to press charges against the court and that in many cases the court costs were several times greater than the damage itself. This provision is also remarkable because of the fact that it is not just material damage. You often have a capitalized rent when actuarial skill is needed. Often in car accidents you have ten participants in the accident, so besides the material damage to the victims and on the faces, it is necessary to collect documentation on all injured persons, perform machine skills, traffic skills, determine often the percentage of shared responsibility, collect documentation. Believe that insurance companies, given the large number of damages that we have seen in the debate on the Traffic Safety Act on the roads, are covered by compensation requirements and now that there is no obligation and when fewer people in so-called. regular, not court proceedings, reports to insurance companies with claims for damages. Therefore, this 30-day provision would absolutely be inconclusive, because if an average insurance company has a few dozen claims per day for compensation, and with this provision will have two or three times as much, then this complicated procedure of establishing the legal basis and the level of damage to the insurance company will certainly not be able to meet within this 30-day period. Secondly, which is very important, I think that the provision that insurance companies are obliged to pay the undeniable amount of damage to damaged persons, as if damaged persons are obliged to receive undeniable damages, something that is really good. I say, 30 days is inappropriately short. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23100	The People's MP Milet Poscurica submitted the 25th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 25th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Shami and Zeljko Tomic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23101	To continue in the same style. I have to tell Mr. Chicago I'm delighted with his discussion. However, it would probably take me a very long time to logically understand it, but okay. Article 25(1) defines that the insurance company is obliged to establish, within 14 days of the date of receipt of the damage claim, the basis and the height of that claim, etc. It is then stated in paragraph 3: “Extremely from Article 1, if within 14 days of the day of receipt of the compensation claim it is not possible to establish the basis and the height of that request”, which will always be signed by me, “the insurance company is obliged to determine them within 45 days of the day of receipt of the compensation claim for damages to things, and within 90 days of the day of receipt of that claim for damage to persons... “ It’s just a matter of time before I go home. ” Not to repeat the argument for the last member, but this is essentially the same thing. We were looking for our amendment, the Democratic Party of Serbia, in order to stop the hiducia of insurance companies and give real rights to citizens, i.e. compulsory insurance companies... Because, I remind you, this is mandatory insurance, we're talking about mandatory insurance, not my goodwill, whether or not I'm going to make an extra insurance with some insurance company, so when I sign something, that's what I'm responsible for. So we suggested that number 45 be replaced by 30, and that number 90 be replaced by 45. So, to make these deadlines realistically shorten and thus speed up the whole process. I still don't see why this amendment was rejected. I would very much like someone to study a little bit what such laws look like in the EU, so if you find an example that mandatory insurance companies are so disbursed, then I withdraw all the amendments that we have submitted to this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23102	The 25th Amendment was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Mr. Chikiriz.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23103	I'm using the line right now. Mr. Shami, neither you nor any of the MPs, while I am an MP in the National Assembly, I will not personally...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23104	Mr. Chikiriz, there's no basis for replication, you can't get the word. Member of the 27th Amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Vukovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 27 of the amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Chikiriz. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23105	This amendment is related to the extension of the deadline for the payment of damages to the so-called so-called ‘. small damage and close connection to the previous amendment that I have elaborated. I think, for the sake of the public, two key facts need to be discussed in the proceedings for damages. The first fact is to establish a legal basis, i.e. the guilt of an accident. I was just about to tell Mr. Shami that in my previous report. Since the professors of the Department of Traffic, including the honourable Member of Shami, are also court experts, they know that a single expert can't perform more than two or three, in simpler cases, skills. Secondly, it is often necessary to get out on the spot, obtain additional information, and parties, ignorant people, rarely in the procedure in which they apply for compensation, supply complete documentation. Therefore, this procedure is much more complex than it appears to be and therefore I think that the eight-day period is in practice inapplicable. I think we should give room to the insurance companies, given that they are bound by other deadline provisions, that this deadline is 14 days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23106	Thank you. There's no basis for replication. You have no word, Mr. Shami. The 27th amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Mr. Nikola Savic wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23107	I'll go to Article 29.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23108	The 29th amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Saviæ.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23109	My colleague, Lidija Dimitrijevic, submitted the amendment to Article 29. It's a bill of law. This article applies to those situations where insurance rights are excluded. Her intention was to define more clearly through this article when these rights are excluded. It is not clear, as it stands in the law, whether these rights are excluded when the driver does not have a driver's license or when the driver has no driver's license at all because he did not take the driver's license to drive a particular category. However, you have rejected this amendment and it is in reason that this amendment does not essentially change the law. I really don't see it that way, because you're re-explaining through this explanation the situation where someone is a candidate for a driver and someone doesn't have a license at all. Indeed, in the bill of law, you can see that a candidate for a driver is not the same as a person who has not been laid down for a driver's license. That's why I think you should accept this amendment, because it is in one sense a legal-registration character, but it does essentially change what I'm talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23110	The 29th Amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Chikiriz. Do you want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Chikiriz.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23111	As for the loss of insurance rights, I think that all the provisions that have been stated are very real and come out of life, but I wanted to point 7), because of what's going on in practice, we're closer to determining this law. In fact, it often happens that drivers leave the scene of a car accident with a vehicle that caused the accident. This is most often the case if they manage under the fact of alcohol, intoxicating drugs or do not have a driving test, or are obviously guilty of a car accident and want to avoid liability. However, it often happens that the driver leaves the vehicle at the scene of a car accident and, in another way, leaves the scene of a car accident, so I think this provision is appropriate, so that we can determine closer to the concept of leaving the scene of a car accident. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23112	National MP Petar Jojic submitted the 29th amendment. Do you want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23113	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this bill has so many gaps, gaps and senselessness that it's hard to talk in two minutes about the quality of this law. First of all, Article 29, paragraph 5 proposes to lose the right of the person who has secured the vehicle if the damage causes it on purpose. I can tell you that in my almost 30-year law practice, I didn't have a single case, and I had thousands and thousands of cases, which were deliberately caused by damage. However, the Law on Prosecution and the Criminal Law of the Republic of Serbia regulate these provisions and damages are done in a litigation procedure, in a criminal case, if it is proved that the damage was done on purpose. With regard to what the predecessor said, which made observations relating to Article 24, this is pointless, that you give 90 days to someone to respond to your request if you have had a car accident and if someone has caused their own guilt to your vehicle, and your vehicle brings you first of all benefits because of your particular activity. In 90 days, you've ruled out the owner of the truck or the owner of the bus carrying passengers who can't press charges or can't make such a claim and can't make it, and the damages for those 90 days are not gonna be paid. Who's gonna pay him? The procedure should be conducted for 33 years. As Mr. Shami said, this is really quite inappropriate, not allowed. In which country in Europe and outside Europe, military vehicles that do no harm are not responsible and are not treated as persons, as entities that are supposed to compensate for someone from a car accident? I remind you that a citizen from the village of Nikojevići lost a son who served his army in the guard; ten days before the military deadline, he was killed in the Lipovak forest in a military vehicle. Thirty-three years ago, that citizen was in charge of a lawsuit and barely last year he got some church girl for damage caused, as a moral, immaterial damage. This is really inappropriate. Military vehicles must be included and levelled with all motor vehicles in traffic, as it is inappropriate to avoid damages to citizens on this basis. I'd just, if you'll excuse me, Madam President, since it's about insurance... What's going to be the announcement, which is your profession, 200,000 workers should be left without a work book and no social security because some don't pay them social security contributions? What does that mean for 200,000 citizens? It's a very dangerous thing, a serious thing, that the state has to deal with and take appropriate measures to keep this from happening. Because if 200,000 people get into a situation where they can't get medical attention, you know a hundred times better than me what the consequences are. That's why I'm warning the present minister, and I'm asking you to appeal to the government not to let 200,000 workers run out of social security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23114	Member of the 33rd Amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Duvnjak. Do you want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 33 of the amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Chikiriz. Do you want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Chikiriz.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23115	In the previous Law on compulsory traffic insurance, there was a provision on the territorial importance of the mandatory insurance policy in traffic that it applies to the territory of the Member State in which it was issued, or, as far as we are concerned, in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. In the process of approaching the EU, under signed multilateral agreements with EU Member States, our citizens should know that in the future their insurance policy will apply to the territory of all EU member states, and the legislator explained this - on the territory of Member States of the International Insurance Card System or states whose national insurance bureau is a signator of a multilateral agreement, without paying an additional premium, as previously done in terms of border insurance or green insurance card. However, in addition to multilateral, or multi-partisan agreements, our country is also a signator and bilateral agreements; we had previously had bilateral agreements with the Republic of Serbia, Montenegro, etc., so that my amendment refers to the addition of the words "Multilateral Agreement" and the words "and other agreements", which means, above all, bilateral agreements that exist in practice. I think this solution would only improve the proposed, otherwise very good, solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23116	National MP Branimir Djokic submitted to the 34th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP, Srboljub Zivanovic, submitted to the 34th amendment. Would you like a word, Mr. Zivanovic? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23117	Ladies and gentlemen, I have submitted an amendment to Article 34(3), which reads: "For the damage caused by the driver of an unsecured motor vehicle normally located in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, the territory of the EU Member States or States whose national insurance bureau is a signator of a multilateral agreement or of a country in which the registration plate replaces the applicable international auto responsibility assurance rule corresponds to the Guarantee Fund, in accordance with the concluded international agreements. “ Ladies and gentlemen, as you can see, an insurance body is trying to ensure that other institutions, such as the guarantee fund, are charged with insurance damage, i.e. by the driver or by the vehicle. I'm asking the minister if it's necessary for this member to... Is it by entering, is it necessary in the European Union to form this new institution, a guarantee fund, which will be the security to pay for the damage? I don't know how the insurance companies have been paying that damage so far. Therefore, I believe that by forming one such institution, the state is actually creating another large budget cost, which is also one body that is not part of the insurance society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23118	National MP Zoran Kasalovic submitted to the 35th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 35th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Would you like a word, Mr. Krassic? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23119	For the introduction, for citizens to know: last year 1,919,000 vehicles in the Republic of Serbia are necessarily provided. I'm talking about auto-responsibility insurance. The premiums are about 17,000,000, about 16.500,000 dinars. The damages paid are about 7,500,000 dinars. You who do math, take away this lower amount from this larger one and tell us where that money is. This article speaks of the regressive demands that can guide pension and disability insurance and health insurance when it comes to some damage, and this is primarily about immaterial damage, there has been the provision of health services, or someone has exercised the right to a disability pension, or, when it comes to the death of a family on a family pension. There is an insurance company's obligation to compensate those institutions for part of the damage, based on mandatory liability insurance. What did these geniuses from the government think of? They remembered that it could depend on the goodwill of pension-inhabited insurance and health insurance. Both Mr. Kasalovic and I, by amendment, are asking for mandatory pension-inhabitation insurance and health insurance to seek and make a regressive request towards the insurance company. Why? You've seen the difference in this money - premium and damage. Where's all this money coming from? Secondly, if these are our mandatory insurance, pension, disability and health institutions, in what right can someone there decide whether to sue or not to sue an insurance company? Just to remind you, when the Code of Criminal Procedure was passed, a provision was put in that the public prosecutor must declare a complaint against a first-degree verdict that is liberating. He is not there – whether he will, whether he will or will not, but must make a statement. I'm just asking that the same principle be applied here when it comes to protecting the state's money.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23120	Member of the 35th Amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Chikiriz. Would you like a word, Mr. Chiquiriz? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23121	In the debate in principle, I pointed out that this provision removed many of the misunderstandings that existed in the past practice because there was no compliance between the Law on Mandatory Health, Pension and Disabilities Insurance with the Mandatory Insurance Act. The right to regress the Institute of Health, Pension and Disability Insurance of this provision of the law is unequivocally confirmed. However, the purpose of my amendment is that the right to highlight the regressive requirements can be achieved only for the arrival and payment of claims of damaged persons, which means maturity requires compensation for damages or the submission of regress claims after maturity or after payment. With this provision, we leave room to seduce health, pension and disability insurance so-called. the future damages, which are often not known whether or not they will arise and, if they are created, in which amount they will be incurred, so that this is in accordance with the Law on Liabilities, in terms of the maturity of the claim. I think this provision would reduce the number of health, pension and disability insurance claims against insurance companies for those damages that have not occurred in the future. First of all, I mean capitalized rent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23122	The 36th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Colic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23123	On behalf of the Prosperity Group, Serbia, SNS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 36, which I ask to delete Article 3. "In the case of a motor vehicle being sent from the territory of an EU Member State to the territory of the Republic of Serbia, the risk is considered to be in the Republic of Serbia for 30 days from the immediate reception of the vehicle by the buyer, and the vehicle is not registered in the Republic of Serbia. “ There are many things in this attitude 3, I can say freely, a mystical, mysterious, one big hole in the bill. Whether this was done on purpose or not, it is my job to doubt, and by eradicating attitude 3, the possibility of abuse is eliminated, both domestic and foreign individuals. One of the possible abuses is that vehicles, possibly damaged abroad, seek compensation from domestic insurance houses, and have also been charged in their country or country where the damage occurred. Who's going to find that out and in what way? There's some explanation that he can do it at customs, with the help of the Ministry of the Interior, but we had an affair and customs, there were abuses, there's so-called. Customs Mafia. It works, it can come from Sweden, and in order in any country, it can charge. Discussible, vague position 3, in the part relating to the owner of the vehicle. The question is, who owns a vehicle, a stranger or a country resident in transit, or a local citizen? Dotted tow truck, on the boot of ten damaged vehicles, and charge the damages. This isn't a hole. It's a dump. It's a crater in the bill. That's why I think the most rational erasure of attitude 3 in Article 36 is the acceptance of my amendment, but I'm not optimistic, because you often trade reality for illusion. That's probably your ideology. I don't want to tell you anything else.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23124	Member of the 36th Amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Zivkov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) In the same text, Members of the People's Republic of Radisa Ilic and Nikola Žutić submitted to the 38th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Mr. Radisa Ilic wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23125	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 38. The proposal for a mandatory traffic insurance law, which reads: In Article 38(1), the words ‘Member States of the European Union’ are replaced by the words ‘other countries’. Article 38 refers to border insurance, i.e. insurance which must be owned by a motor vehicle driver located in another country's territory. The draft law provides for the conclusion of a liability insurance contract in force on the territory of EU Member States. By law, you regulate a situation that applies only to EU Member States. As far as these 27 member states are concerned, the matter is definitely clear. What will drivers do when it comes to Russia, when it comes to other non-EU countries, countries around the world, Asia, Africa, etc.? The legal provision cannot be directed solely towards the EU, as if the rest of the world, Malta, does not exist. The objective of the amendment is that this law must have the exact same relationship with all countries and their citizens, whether they are EU Member States or not. The government explained in its explanation the reasons why it did not accept this amendment. So neither can this law without an EU directive. We act as if we are in the European Union, as if this European Union accepts us. As we see us through the Schengen of visas, in relation to Kosovo and Metohija, Eulex, we see by confirming the SAA and the EU's trade agreement, which persistently ignores what Serbia allegedly is trying to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23126	Member of the 38th Amendment was submitted by MP Stefan Zankov. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Mr. Zankov, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23127	Thank you. The meaning of our amendment to Article 38. The bill replacing the word "non-systemic" with the word "systematic", which concerns the supervision carried out by the internal affairs authority, is precisely in order to reduce the possibility that vehicles which are not secured and even vehicles which are not registered in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. This, of course, is in line with the declared, I mean the amendment, the objectives of the almost passed Traffic Safety Act. The problem is here in something else. I believe that this amendment would be acceptable to you, too, because it is in line with raising the quality of the performance of compulsory insurance and greater protection of damaged persons in traffic, that you have not begun to adopt an increasing number of laws with the suspended, so to speak, in fact, as the Business Chambers Act since 2013. The question is, what are we actually doing and when are we going to start adopting laws whose effects (natural, positive effects) will citizens feel right away, because for their interest we should primarily fight here? See, for example, Article 117, which deals with the postponing of certain provisions of the law. Apparitions – Provisions Art. 6, 27, 33, 34, 36, 37, 38, not to read, come into force from the day of the accession of the Republic of Serbia to the European Union. The provisions of Article 22, you and you, and Articles 43 to three years from the date of entry into force of this law. Third point: Article 42(2) – one year from the date of entry into force of this law. The fourth point, not to read the members – January 1st, 2010. Fifth point - from the date of accession of the Republic of Serbia to the World Trade Organisation. Article 119 states that the law enters into force on the 1990s from the day of its publication in the "Official Messenger". I think there will be problems here in practice, as far as the law is concerned. I think it's not enough just to say that this (and therefore to adopt it) is in the spirit of good European practice, and that it's all over, and that by the time practically all of this starts to apply we change this law, who knows how many times and that you always claim that you are in these amendments to the law, or in some new law, right. That's why I think it's good to accept this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23128	The 38th amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23129	Thank you. If only you were not such Eurofanatics as you are, this amendment, which I submitted to Article 38(2) on behalf of the SRS Group, would probably have been accepted. The amendment refers to eradicating the word "EU or third country" because we in the SRS believe that this law, like any other, must have absolutely the same relationship with all other countries and their citizens, whether it is EU members or not, especially given the fact that it is stated in the reasons for not accepting the amendments, which is that those provisions will apply from the date of accession of the Republic of Serbia to the EU, whether it will be 2021, 2022, 2025 or 2027, that we are not bid now. It is obvious that such a subjective relationship with everything that has EU omens is also seen in this proposed law. Since Minister Dragutinovic is also present, it is obvious that not enough of these 267.000,000 euros are missing in the budget, after the unilateral application of the Trade Agreement, as well as the fact that the economic situation in our country has worsened since then, and that the optimistic forecast of GDP growth to about 3.5% will obviously be significantly reduced, which is probably confirmed, given the assessment of the world's largest credit rating company, Dan and Bradstrit, which states in its report that this will be around 2.5% and that the deficit is greater than 1.5% of GDP envisioned. So, why did it come from a derogation from that economically justified attitude in October 2008, especially when it comes to the fact that global financial centres of power, such as Brazil, China, India and the Russian Federation, have an absolutely different relationship than those that have produced the crisis and which are doing exactly the opposite of what the laws proposed by Serbia are, and even in the law on mandatory traffic insurance, we cannot do without the EU. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23130	The 39th Amendment was submitted by MP Otto Kishmarton. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Kishmarton.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23131	Dear fellow MPs, the Serbian Progressive Party has submitted amendments to all proposed laws, as well as to this law on mandatory traffic insurance. As shown in our amendments, our goal is to correct the proposed laws, for the congregation majority will certainly adopt these laws, whether they are good or bad. We of the opposition can only try to, in the interest of the citizens, correct these proposed laws. I propose replacing Article 39 of the proposed law in paragraph 2 with the number ‘60’ with the number ‘30’. This law lays down, inter alia, the obligation of the owner of the vehicle to conclude a mandatory insurance contract. Given that we also have foreign vehicles passing through, there is also a requirement that foreign vehicles have a valid international auto responsibility provision. If they do not have that, the persons are required to conclude an auto responsibility insurance agreement at the border. This Article provides for a procedure for damages to persons resulting from the use of motor vehicles of foreign registration. In Article 39. The government has proposed in paragraph 2 that the insurance company to which the claim has been lodged pay the damages within 60 days. My proposal is for society to pay for the damage within 30 days, instead of 60. I think 60 days is too long for the right to be damaged. A lot can change in 60 days. If someone uses a vehicle to get to work, maybe even for work, for 60 days, if that vehicle falls out of service, it's a long time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23132	National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted the title above article 41 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 41st Amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23133	Madam President, I have submitted this amendment to article 41. However, this article 41 does not regulate this area properly. This in practice creates great problems, and it will create with those citizens who need to make damages. What's this about? If a foreign vehicle has entered Yugoslavia, the former one, or Serbia's present one, and has been stolen abroad and used here, while its registration expires, who will now pay for the damage? Whether the state should pay for the damage, and so many stolen vehicles from Europe have been found in Serbia and Montenegro in recent years, that there is no need to talk about the number. So, citizens will have big problems how and how to achieve the right to compensation for damages. Second, why would the state pay for the damage? Because the state won't be able to charge regressively. If the insurance company abroad is liquidated, who's going to pay? Will their state, do we have such a contract that the state will be able to bear such damages and how long will it take our citizens to make such damages? As regards the provision of Article 23, as regards insurance, you have suggested: “The owner of a motor vehicle, or a participant in a car accident, is required to inform the responsible insurance company of a car accident within three days. “ I ask the promoter what happens if someone does not report damage or report a harmful event, what happens then? Does this mean that the person who was obliged to apply within three days, or inform the insurance company, loses his right? Because here in Section 2 it had to be standardized - except in cases of team and team. It's three days short. Imagine, when a car accident happens on Friday: Friday, Saturday, Sunday, that's three days. Are you saying that someone could have a complex car accident to report, assess, hire an expert, privately or through a court, to initiate a procedure to determine the damage caused, the height of the damage, and so on.? So there's so much uncertainty, there's so much uncertainty that when this law is applied, it's going to be very difficult for anyone who applies it. About what Mr. Shami was saying, I'm going back to that case, don't mind me, but it's a very serious thing in practice. Imagine, you have a car accident, you crash a 50,000-euro vehicle, and now you're waiting 90 days to press charges against a court unless someone makes up for your damage! I repeat and pray, because in practice I've had countless cases that a man who earns bread for his family as a car carrier... He's got 90 days to wait to fix his vehicle, replace the parts. Whether it's partial, whether it's complete, total damage, it's a very serious thing, and this isn't how this should be normalized. Who's in harm's way? They'll suffer citizens. I don't know, but it seems to me that a person wears his cheeks on the outside when he goes public, when he proposes certain standards that our citizens and how they cost and how citizens can't achieve their right timeless. If all before the Constitution and the law are equal, then the Army is equal to compensation for damages and military vehicles cannot be excluded from responsibility. Let me give you an example: in 1993 a man paid a plane to Lola - Utujevo in Pancheva; until today he could not collect the damage and has a judicial verdict. That you may know who prevented it - a bad law on executive procedure, because it has primarily protected the debt lobby from the military, and the SDPR is now not paying for the damage. The action fund, which has now taken over "Lola - Utva", is said to say – you know, it is SDPR. When you ask the SDPR, he says – so now it's the Action Fund. Now a man can't make up for his damage. If this keeps up, I don't know if that man's gonna live to get that damage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23134	The amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Milorad Buh, to the 41st Amendment. Here you go, Mr. Buha.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23135	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Citizens of Serbia, I have submitted an amendment to Article 41, and I have suggested that Article 1 adds, which reads: "The person who suffered the damage caused by the use of a motor vehicle of foreign registration, whose owner did not secure himself from self-responsibility, claims for damages to the fund through an insurance company." For the sake of the public, I have to read attitude one and explain why it is necessary to install this attitude 2 in order for this member to have a whole. Article 41. The bill reads: “The damage caused by the use of an external registration motor vehicle, whose owner has not secured himself from self-responsibility, is compensated by the Guarantee Fund. “ The question is raised, to whom does he make up for it, who makes up for it, and who is the subject of a regression request? This Article 41st is formally incomplete and therefore my proposal is to add Article 2, in which it is clearly stated who has the right to re-demand, and the very provision to submit the claim via an insurance company. For what? These are pragmatic reasons, since the person who submits this request may be in difficult conditions because of the physical injury suffered by the accident. On the other hand, that face could be in the hospital. The question arises, given that these deadlines are too inclusive, can they submit that request? And it is necessary to include the insurance company in all of this because the insurance company must be an entity that will make a commitment from the person who has suffered the damage. That's the reason. Unfortunately, the government has not accepted this amendment, and I think it is meaningful and this is the completion of Article 41; it also has a formal-legal basis, and a meaning and goal, which is why I went to this amendment proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23136	The 42nd amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The word is Mr. Nikola Savic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23137	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, counterpart Momir Markovic submitted an amendment to Article 42 of this Law, with the idea of extending this article, to add a new position that reads: "The calculation of the premium for each tariff group of the mandatory insurance premium system must be carried out according to criteria which must not go to the detriment of the owner of the vehicle". Why was such an amendment submitted? First of all, for the reason that the amendment proposes the addition of members and the addition of this law at all, because the premium of compulsory insurance, which is so far linked exclusively to the volume of the motor vehicle, does not reflect the real situation. Of course, as soon as it doesn't reflect the real situation, it always goes to the expense of the owner of the vehicle. We know that from practice. If we also know that the average age of the vehicle in Serbia is about 15 years, and there are a large number of vehicles whose volume is higher, then all these vehicles fall within the more unfavourable tariff groups of the mandatory insurance premium system. The legislator should have in mind and market value of the vehicle, which is not seen in this law and in this article. In fact, we can come to an absurd situation that the compulsory insurance premium can often exceed the market value of the vehicle, given that there are a large number of vehicles in our country aged 15, 20, even for many years.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23138	National MP Vladan Jeremic submitted to the 44th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23139	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, Article 44. The draft law on compulsory insurance in traffic refers to the area of sale of insurance and business insurance companies, and I, by amendment, which I submitted on behalf of the SRS Parliamentary Group, proposed to delete that member. I have to admit that the explanation that came from the promoter, in terms of reasons why the amendment is not accepted, and what stands in the explanation of the amendments practically coincides, and I am more convinced that it is necessary in a different way to regulate this area. The promoter says, "Amendment is not accepted for the reason that the proposed provisions set out the way in which the auto responsibility insurance policy is sold, which is, as it stands, and in some ways is recognised, "introduces order in the currently unregulated area of the sale of auto-responsibility insurance policy through legal persons who, in accordance with road safety regulations, are authorised to carry out a technical examination of the vehicle (technical examination). “ On this very amendment on behalf of the SRS Parliamentary Group, I have proposed to delete that member because the proposed text of that member of the law absolutely does not correspond to the actual state. In practice, the state of things is completely opposite. You are probably well aware that there are insurance companies behind the technical examinations, which provide technical checks with appropriate equipment provided that they sell exclusively their insurance policies. So we think that this matter should be solved in a systemically different way, which will correspond to the real state it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23140	The 45th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Shami and Milos Radulovic. Here you go, Mr. Shami.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23141	It is a member who predicts that the insurance company is obliged to allocate 1.2% of gross collateral premiums from auto responsibility as part of prevention and to quarterly pay etc.; therefore, for monitoring, control and regulation of traffic, video surveillance of roads. Right away, in principle, this provision is good. If the state of traffic and traffic control and video surveillance is on our roads, I'm free to say, at zero, it takes a real lot of money. It is absolutely certain that, despite all needs, the state as a state cannot finance it itself, at least not at first. So the provision is in principle good. In our opinion, however, in the view of the Democratic Party of Serbia, the amount of 1.2% is too small. In the first wave, I wanted to suggest a more significant increase, but, come on, I was modest in that sense, with a requirement to turn these 1.2% into 2.4%. If there is a company that has its own business interest, I'm not talking about humanitarian and other aspects of the cost of car accidents, which has its authentic business interest in reducing the number of car accidents, increasing control and video surveillance, which, I repeat, in our case to zero, are insurance companies. I'm not going to mention the distribution functions and everything else, which Mrs. Minister would understand, but probably most of the MPs wouldn't understand me, but I'm going to state the simplest case. If you hypothetically imagine that no car accident occurs, in that case the profits of insurance companies are 100%. They took everything, it's all theirs. Of course, that is not possible, but it is clear that if you reduce the number of accidents in traffic by 10%, small and large, it is clear that the profits of insurance companies are significantly increased. Therefore, the requirement to turn 1.2% into 2.4% of me and MPs of the Democratic Party of Serbia seems extremely reasonable. Since we are not going to talk about the next 140 amendments because they are not our amendments, which is a few hours of work, I am giving Ms. Secretary another chance to think about these five amendments that have passed so far and to accept them afterwards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23142	The 46th Amendment was submitted by MP Radica Jocic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic and Ljubomir Kragovic in the same text. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23143	With this amendment, I just wanted to give you some guidance in time and space, that the words "European Union" in this law mean absolutely nothing. And before the European Union, we had agreements with countries where the issue of representatives of insurance companies and information centres was regulated to deal with these damages as effectively as possible. But what Mr. Shami was saying is really interesting, and I support all these amendments that aim to bring this system of communication and monitoring to life, for the simple reason that, according to research, 60% of all accidents are causing non-compliance with the rules on the speed limit of movement. If this video surveillance is made and since a month ago a law was passed with drastic punishment, insurance companies, police can count on us not having 1,000 deaths each year, it would have to be much less. I wish there was no accident. Again, the problem remains -- big premiums, lots of collected funds, 50% damages, and what about the 50%? Where's that? It's all under the control of the National Bank. Where do they place insurance companies' funds? If they were to place the funds, they'd have to go through the banks again, and the financial system was rounded up. They don't even need a stock exchange. Everything's under control, absolute control, every penny. The movement of money is under the video surveillance of a "great brother", who is keeping an eye on it, does not allow funds to be placed here for normal things, but is extracting profits from citizens of the Republic of Serbia and carrying abroad.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23144	Mr. Ljubomir Kragovic wants a word on this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23145	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on Article 47(1), I have submitted an amendment which reads: Article 47(1) of the word "members of the European Union" is deleted. Namely, what's this about? This is about authorised decision-makers, which is defined through two members – 46th and 47th. To clarify, I will read Article 47: "The insurance company carrying out auto responsibility insurance activities in the territory of the Republic of Serbia is obliged to appoint authorised representatives in all other EU Member States. The insurance company shall inform the Information Centre referred to in Article 50 of this Act of the information centres of other EU Member States of the name and residence, or the seat of the authorised representative referred to in Article 1(1) of this Article. “ This amendment is a technical amendment, which defines the need for authorised representatives throughout Europe, not only in the European Union. If we have information that the European Union accounts for 40% of Europe's territory, the other 60% would be uncovered, so that insurance companies would not have to have their own authorised representatives on 60% of Europe's territory under this law. It is inadmissible that such legal projects allow them to do so. I think it's a technical amendment and it's possible to accept it. I propose to the Government to accept this amendment in order to oblige insurance companies to have authorised representatives not only in EU Member States, but also in all other non-EU countries, but also in Europe's territory, as the greatest likelihood is that the largest number of our citizens are about to travel across Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23146	The 47th Amendment was submitted by Parliamentarian Milorad Krstin, who wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23147	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have tabled an amendment to the mandatory insurance bill in traffic to delete the words "Member of the European Union" in Article 47(2). Of course, the SRS finds that this law must have the exact same relationship with all other countries and their citizens, whether they are an EU member or not. But if I have the Government's opinion in front of me on Article 47, where it is said that this law will apply from the day of the accession of the Republic of Serbia to the European Union (when it comes to some of the Vange grandmothers sitting in the government, they say that somewhere in 2017 we will enter the EU, I would very much like to see it), I see no reason why this law had to be put on the agenda by an urgent procedure. To you, Madam Minister, all I want to do is pass on the greetings of the pair and the peasants and tell you that 70% of the land planted with the livestock barley is finished harvest, that the price of the cattle barley is eight dinars per kilogram. One single firm, which I'm not going to name now, buys out, and only certain quantities in the north of Baka or in northern Serbia. I wonder what kind of price that producer will get when he transports from Srem, from the area of Panchev, from the vicinity of Vršc? Do you know, since you're sitting in the government, Madam Minister, that the price of the wheat, because they're starting to dissipate, will be up to ten dinars? With those ten dinars, the agricultural producer, the paor and peasant are in a huge minus. As the SRS Parliamentary Group, we received a letter from the Vojvodina Association, which trusts us and asks us to bring this out to the public. The calculated price, according to the Vojvodina Association, per hectare of the sown area, for the manufacturer to be at a positive zero, is 17.65 dinars. With a price of ten dinars per kilogram of wheat farmer, paor, the peasant is minus 12,000 dinars, based on the calculations made by the Vojvodina Association. It wasn't made by Milorad Kristin. Because, at that price that I had in principle when we had those 15 points of the agricultural agenda, no one believed it would come to such a low price for agricultural products. Now it has proved to be a true thought by the SRS MP group that a pair, a peasant, will fall so low thanks to you from the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23148	National MP Tomislav Ljubenovic submitted to the 48th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 49 of the amendment was submitted by MP Igor Becic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23149	Dear citizens, dear colleagues, on behalf of the SNS, I have submitted an amendment to replace the word "three months" in Article 49(1) with "30 days" in the words "three months". In order to make it more clear, I will read that part of the article which reads: “The responsible insurance company or its authorised representative shall be obliged to submit within three months of the date of the damage claim to the damaged person delivery: 1) the reasoned offer of compensation for damages, if the basis and the height of the damage are undeniable and 2) the reasoned answer, if the basis and the height of the damage are disputed. “ Many of my colleagues spoke today, and that’s professor. Shami also explained, about the too long deadlines that have been allowed insurance companies to carry out their obligation to citizens, because we have a situation where a citizen has to apply within three days, and insurance within 90 days to pay the citizens the damage, in this case to make a reasoned offer to citizens for the damage caused. When we know the economic situation, where citizens are very often left without their vehicle within 90 days, so we have insurance that will extend those deadlines because they have legal opportunities, that many citizens will not be able to repair their vehicles until the insurance company pays them back, it is clear that the citizens in this case are in an unfavourable position, to protect insurance companies here, not citizens. We're giving them a postponement for 90 days; they can invest that money they owe to the citizens several times. When we know that the premiums are over sixteen billion, that the damages paid are half as much, it is clear to what extent the insurance goes to the harm of our citizens. We also have an explanation of the Government for which it does not accept the amendment, which is that the amendment is not accepted for the reasons set out in the reasons for not accepting the amendments to the article. 24, 38, 68. For example, the rejection of amendments to Article 45, which says: “Amendment is not accepted for the reason that the proposed deadline is in line with the development of the insurance market, that is, the deadline in which insurance companies have to carry out all the necessary actions in order to properly respond to the damage to its request. “ We also have an argument that is much mentioned in this law – the amendment is not accepted for the reason that that provision is applied from the date of accession of the Republic of Serbia to the European Union. It is clear that in the European Union these deadlines cannot pass, that surely their citizens do not wait 90 days for any damage to be paid. We can see that they have some benefits, that even citizens while waiting for their vehicle to be done are getting vehicles for use so that their obligations do not suffer from any insurance that they need to look at the documentation submitted by the damaged person, to come out with their opinion and offer the insurance company and to pay for the damages that the citizens have suffered in an additional period. In this case, they are not to blame for what happened, to wait for insurance companies, which, with such incomes, do not allow citizens to exercise their rights for a short time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23150	National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 49th amendment. Here you go, Mrs. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23151	In Article 49. The SRS is asking the proposing to protect the damaged by paying the insurance company after three months, based on a report drawn up by the company, or by its authorised representative, to pay for the damage to the damaged. What are we looking for this for? Because it is unacceptable that after three months, as you have suggested in Article 2, Article 49, the insurance company says – there is a disputed level of damage, there have been such circumstances, and we cannot meet the damage claim. Mrs Dragutinovic, you, or the previous government, in which the current prime minister was the finance minister, passed the Insurance Society Act. A full monopoly was created in Serbia when it comes to insurance companies. You have deleted from the register through the method of liquidation, through the methods of operation of Governor Jelasic, some people, i.e. companies that have been extremely effective in the cost of compensation and who have worked well in the areas where they were registered. Such an example is the insurance company Prizma from Topola, which was liquidated at the time of the account's possession of 139,000,000 dinars, by Governor Radovan Jelasic's decision. In the previous assembly mandate, as well as SRS MPs and other NS MPs, I spoke of the unremembered scandal and that at that time (it was a direct political decision) a gentleman who owned the company was declared a liquidator. Therefore, if you have already passed a law by which you have left insurance companies that are at the will of the parties who are in power – which is so obvious, it is known that they have absolutely direct political ties and the Government directly has a political impact on some of them, not to mention their names – then protect those who are damaged in the bill and accept the SRS amendment that it is quite enough time for them to meet the request damaged. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23152	Member of the 49th Amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Maric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Mrs. Vesna Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23153	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, based on article 147. On behalf of the SRS, the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I have submitted an amendment to the draft law on compulsory insurance in traffic on Article 49(3), which reads: "The National Bank of Serbia will inform the supervisory authority of the Member State of the European Union if the responsible insurance company or its authorised representative are acting contrary to the obligations laid down in Article 1(1). “ In the amendment I proposed that the words “Member States of the European Union” be replaced by the words “other countries”. If an uninformed person in Serbia and Europe reads this bill, in particular Article 49(3) would surely conclude that Serbia is an EU member, because why would the National Bank of Serbia inform the supervisory authority of an EU Member State, or why would it only inform the supervisory authority of an EU Member State, if it is not a member of that international organisation itself? By what criteria? In what state or national interest does Serbia have an obligation to account for the competent authority in Denmark, Luxembourg, Germany or the UK? Even better question, if she had to lay them on someone else, why would she lay them on Germany and not lay them on Russia? Why would she lay them on Holland and not Belarus? That maybe Germany and the Netherlands aren't more friends than Russia and Belarus? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23154	The 50th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23155	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, under this bill of law in Serbia, there will be one information centre where drivers and other traffic participants will be able to obtain information that they are interested in, but only on condition that such information exists in a register that exists in the centre and in the registers of EU member states. If this solution remains in force, virtually all countries and their citizens who are not members of the European Union will be discriminated against. For example, if a citizen of Poland or Luxembourg experiences an accident on the roads in Serbia, he will get all the information he wants in downtown Belgrade, but if, God forbid, an accident will be experienced by someone from Montenegro or Republika Srpska, he will be denied the possibility. In my opinion, there's no logical explanation. In Serbia, we have about 500,000 refugees from Croatia, BiH, and we have about three million citizens originating in these two republics and Montenegro. It's often traveled in one direction or another. We have tens of thousands of Serbian citizens who have Croatian, Montenegrin and BiH citizenship, and vice versa. We have 60,000 Serbian citizens who have cars with Montenegrin plates and plates from Republika Srpska. It can certainly be argued that they will be the most frequent users of these services provided by the Information Centre, but they will not be able to obtain that information. This legal solution becomes even more illogical if we take into account the following three facts: Serbia has the most intense traffic precisely from BiH; secondly, Serbia has special ties with Republika Srpska; thirdly, Serbia has special ties to BiH and the Muslim-Croatian Federation in Sarajevo. For these reasons, I propose that the Government accept this amendment, because this would ensure that the information centre in Belgrade services, the information available to all citizens of all European countries, regardless of whether these countries are members of the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23156	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 50 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 50 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23157	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, members of the 50th and other members in several places, mention "other EU member states". If you interpret these words in the context of Article 50, then a person can get some wrong impression – that the Republic of Serbia is an EU member and that there are other countries that are also members. Of course, you know, Mrs Dragutinovic, that the Republic of Serbia is not an EU member and the question is whether it will ever be. The fact that you sow false promises from Serbian citizens from day to day that we have just entered the EU is what you are probably doing to promote your own political party, but you yourself know that this is not true and that the EU itself is clearly showing not only that it does not want the Republic of Serbia in its composition, but that there are strong resistances in the EU itself that the EU is further expanding, given, for example, that the Republic of Ireland has refused to ratify the Lisbon Treaty. What is also interesting, Mrs Dragutinovic, I do not know whether you or anyone from the Government of the Republic of Serbia responded to the fact that on the official website of the United Kingdom Embassy in Belgrade, therefore, Great Britain, a map of the Republic of Serbia without Kosovo and Metohija was published. The United Kingdom Embassy's headquarters in Belgrade was indicated and Serbia's map without Kosovo and Metohija was then published. So, the official view of the UK is that Kosovo and Metohija are not part of Serbia. Now we can only expect that in a few months or a few years, when you adopt the Statute of Vojvodina on this map, the Republic of Serbia without the Vojvodina is adopted. I ask you, how long will this piece of Republic of Serbia take and how long will you be silent about the fact that your alleged EU friends are working hard to divide Serbia and that Serbia disappears from political and not just geographical maps of Europe? Otherwise, Mrs Dragutinovic, I came to this site by reading on the site of RTS on 16 June 2009 about the reception of the Queen of England at the Embassy of Great Britain in Belgrade. On this occasion, Mr. Stephen Wardsworth, the British ambassador, said "this party is for our Serbian friends. The people we invited to join us today in celebration were our most important partners over the past 365 days. As they do, we want to see progress, flourish and a better future for Serbia. “ You see, they see a better future in Serbia, a boom and progress without Kosovo and Metohija, and they are not ashamed of it. So, everyone... You can do the same when the National Assembly session starts, so go to the site, the official United Kingdom Embassy site in Belgrade, and you will see a map of Serbia without Kosovo and Metohija. And this is what that increased map looks like, so there won't be any dilemma. It is interesting to hear who were guests at this reception for the birthday of the Queen of England, who at night cannot sleep to worry about the well-being of Serbia and the Serbian people. So, the reception was attended by Serbian Deputy Prime Minister Bozidar Djelic, Justice Minister Snezana Malovic, Defence Minister Dragan Sutanovac, European Commission delegation chief in Serbia Jose Ljoveras and SNS leader Tomislav Nikolic. So, I don't know what else should happen, Mrs Dragutinovic, which part of Serbia should be separated, how many more Serbs should be expelled from their hearths, how much Serbian property still needs to be destroyed, so that you understand what the citizens of Serbia have long understood -- the European Union and NATO pact don't want us. It's not a matter of whether you want to, you probably want to, and your government, but they don't want us. They might want us at some point, when it's completely irrelevant whether we're going to be or not to be a member of the EU. If they take away Kosovo and Metohija, which you agree to, but who knows, you may formally admit it soon; if you remain silent about the fact that very clear signals are coming from Vojvodina that those who lead the Vojvodina today do not only want no AP, they are making it very clear to you that they will not calm down until Vojvodina becomes an independent state and you are persistently silent... I ask you, why do you keep talking about the standards of the European Union, the European Union, from law to law? Even the language context is completely pointless, you say "other EU Member States". What others? We are not an EU member. If you had written "EU Member States", I would have understood it in a language sense. This is not even the language of what you have written, and it is politically scandalous that the entire Serbian government is silent about the fact, and you are even going to the reception of a man representing a country whose official site has a map of Serbia without Kosovo and Metohija. I would very much like to see if anyone would come to the reception of the Serbian ambassador to London to, say, appear on the official website of the Serbian Embassy in London a map of Great Britain without Northern Ireland. The ambassador would be declared a non-grat person and returned to Belgrade on the first plane within 24 hours. You are still going to the reception of a man who says openly – people, for us and for my country, Kosovo and Metohija did not form part of Serbia. What's this about? You're still telling us how pro-European the law is. We could hear here from individual MPs of the ruling coalition that the epochal achievement of this law is what insurance premiums will be recognised in EU member states as well. We've had this case before without this law. What has not happened and I ask you when will it happen, when will the premiums of insurance of Serbian insurance companies be recognised in countries that do not now, such as Russia, Belarus and Turkey? Why not try to go to the Russian market with our insurance premiums, but boast of some achievements that already exist, even if you don't pass this law?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23158	The remaining time available to the SRS parliamentary group is seven minutes. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 50 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sladjan Mijaljevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's Messenger Sladjan Mijaljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23159	I have submitted an amendment to Article 50(8) to delete the words "Member of the European Union" and I have explained that the SRS believes that this law must have the exact same relationship with all other countries and their citizens, whether they are members of the EU or not. I have received an answer -- the amendment is not accepted because this provision will apply from the day Serbia enters the EU. And yesterday I voiced a surprise about the law that was on the agenda yesterday, so the minister wasn't comfortable, but I really can't spare her my surprise about this law and this answer, because I can't believe that someone is proposing a certain provision in the law for something that might happen in a few years, and it might never happen. If we really happen to enter one day, God forbid, in this EU, we can pass that regulation, supplement Law 2017, 2020, 2025, when we are suggested that we might enter the EU. But I see something else here. I see a certain mental attitude, I see a certain elitism, I see your desire that as soon as possible, in any way, you join that EU and enter it, even though you think you have entered it, even though more than half of Europe does not accept you and more than half of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia do not want to join the EU. I really can't understand this subjective, vassal and courteous attitude that you're trying to declare at every moment, in every law, in every regulation, in the way that it might happen in some foreseeable time, and it may not happen, but we do imagine that we are members of the EU. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23160	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 51st Amendment was submitted by MP Marko Milenkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 53 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vlad Milojkovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Vlad Milojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23161	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 53(3), on the grounds that this law must have the exact same relationship with all other countries and their citizens, whether they are members of the EU or not. Article 53 states that a damaged person resident in the Republic of Serbia may make a compensation claim to the Bureau for damages if a traffic accident occurred in another EU Member State. In an explanation for the adoption of this law, the Government states that the Bureau was introduced as an institute for the protection of damaged persons only in exceptional cases when an accident occurred in EU Member States. The government has not accepted this amendment because the termology referred to is not in line with EU directives. It can be seen from the reasons for not accepting this amendment that this law is passed by the Government under the EU directive, without taking care of its citizens and harming the countries that are not EU members. Ladies and gentlemen, this is just another law that imposes on us the EU, which will not do Serbia's citizens any good. This law will benefit only the insurance companies, and probably those societies that impose on us the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23162	Member of the 53rd amendment was submitted by MP Vuceta Toskovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 54th amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Dejan Mirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23163	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment has been submitted to Article 54. It's a bill of law. The purpose of this amendment is to adapt the bill to reality, both in legal and geographical terms. It is generally known, as one of our predecessors said, that the EU extends to about 40% of the European continent. So over 60% of the continent's surface is out of Brussels' supranational organization. In that sense, right but also in the legislation should use clear definitions. It is clear to us that for propaganda reasons two concepts are identified – Europe and Brussels, but it is not the same. On the contrary, there is a greater resemblance between Brussels and its economic policy and the IMF than between the terms Brussels and Europe. In this context, as is known, Brussels and the IMF are helping so-called Independent Kosovo. Also, Brussels and the IMF have a common economic policy towards Serbia. In addition, this is openly stated in Article 117. Stabilisation and Association Agreements. Finally, the IMF, with the support of Brussels, imposed more than harsh conditions on our government. For example, Serbia's budget deficit should not be above 3% of GDP, while in the United States, around 12%, in the Russian Federation, even though the country, as generally known, has an incomparably higher GDP than the Republic of Serbia. Finally, this law, but also the entire state policy in this context, needs to be adapted to real life, not some kind of pro-briselle virtual ideology. Clear and more precise definitions, which we require, are used even in Brussels law (so-called aki communitre), although it is, as you know, a hundred thousand pages, often meaningless, regulations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23164	National MP Zoran Popovic submitted to the 55th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Zoran Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23165	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, based on article 147. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I have tabled an amendment to the draft law on mandatory traffic insurance, which reads: "Article 55(1) is deleted". A member of whom I have proposed to delete shall read: ‘A damaged person referred to in Article 53(2) of this Act shall not be able to submit to the Bureau for compensation damage damages if he has brought proceedings directly against persons who have caused a car accident or a responsible insurance company’. In the light of this proposal, the law states, among other things: "Amendment is not accepted for the reason that the Office for Compensation of Damages was introduced as an institute for the protection of damaged persons only in exceptional cases, when a traffic accident occurred in an EU Member State, or a third country that is a member of the green card system, and is different from the state of the damaged person. “ This argument is not acceptable, for in one case, a person can be damaged on various grounds. One of these grounds can be the subject of court proceedings, and another of the grounds for damages. If my amendment is not accepted, the damaged person will not be able to achieve his rights as a whole.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23166	National MP Goran Mihajlovic submitted to the 55th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 55 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ognjen Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 56 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Mladenovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 56 of the amendment was submitted by National MP Pai Momchilov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 56 of the amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's Messenger Mirko Munjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23167	In Article 56(2), point 3) the words ‘EU Member States’ shall be replaced by the words ‘other countries’. The question arises why favour only EU countries, why simply not have the same relationship with other countries and their citizens? It is already clear to all of us that this autistic thinking and doing its full bloom is experiencing with you Eurostolgics. You simply see in that fraternizing with the West and entering that common European home a solution to all problems. Just to join the EU, and all the problems of this country will be solved. It is clear to us that, according to the phrase "Ideal beauty for the frog is a frog", everything that is European for you is best. You don't see how new and new problems are being put in front of you. This same European Union is setting new and new conditions before you again. Someone else needs to be arrested, Kosovo has to be recognised, Vojvodina needs to be resolved, Serbia to seven feeds, more unsold is to be sold out. Simply, there will be a condition – both he and this people should be abolished. Indeed, to you such a European Union.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23168	The National MP Milan M. Nikolic submitted the title above Article 60 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Milan M. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23169	Honorable MPs, respected citizens, in front of the SRS, have submitted an amendment to the proposal for mandatory traffic insurance laws. The amendment reads: In the title above Article 60, the words ‘European Union, or parties’ are replaced by ‘others’. The Serbian Radical Party believes that this law must have the exact same relationship with all other countries and their citizens, whether they are members of the EU or not. The amendment is not accepted for the following reasons: because the terminology is given in accordance with EU directives; joining and joining the EU is a strategic definition of Serbia. The very word “directory ” irritates. We are as a state and people capable and professional to adapt our laws without a directive to be applicable to persons from other countries, without particular emphasis on whether they are from the EU or other Union. This article in 60 is given to foreign insurance companies to work in our country and earn profits on the burden of our citizens and businesses. It's exactly the same as the way foreign banks work in our country, all on the burden of our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23170	National MP Zoran Popovic submitted to the 60th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Zoran Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23171	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, based on article 147. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I submit an amendment to the Proposal for a Law on Mandatory Traffic Insurance, which reads: Article 60(1) of the word "Member States of the European Union" is replaced by the words "other countries". As far as I know, Serbia is not yet a member of the European Union. As you know, better than I do, it won't be for the next ten years. True, in 2000, you promised to join the European Union in 2005. In 2002 you announced your entry into the EU for 2007, you announced for 2012. When it comes in 2012, you'll announce it for 2020. It's another of the countless false promises you've made to the citizens of Serbia. Since we are not an EU member, it is inadmissible and it is not normal for the government to propose legal solutions as if it were, and this has just been done with this bill. It sets out specific, special and, most recently, unilateral obligations towards EU countries. That's inadmissible. The fact that you are in a vassal relationship with Brussels, the NATO Pact, does not give the European Union the right to make personal commitments and debts to them binding and borrowing Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23172	On Article 64 of the amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from the Verse of Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23173	Article 64 speaks of insurance of boat owners against liability for damage caused by third parties. In the third position of this member, you of the Government say that the owner of a foreign boat that sails in domestic territorial waters must be provided with responsibility for the damage referred to in Article 1, if there is no other security for compensation for damages or if the international contract is not otherwise arranged. We have suggested that this attitude be deleted, not because we object to such a provision, but simply because it is in collegiate with the previous views of this same member. Perhaps you should have redecorated the whole article, previously read this translation in order to know what it says here, because you, in the position of the 2nd of this article, say that “under the damages of Article 1 of this article, is meant and the damage done to the third person by falling or throwing things out of the boat. ” The following attitude states: “The third person in Article 1 is not considered a person carrying a boat. “ The very text of this article in 64 makes it clear that the damages are paid to the third person, who fell out of the boat. But if the third person, as set out in paragraph 3, is not considered to be the person carrying the boat, then it really remains unclear how it can fall out of the boat. What's provided for in article 64 doesn't make sense. The government now explains why it does not accept the amendment, because, of course, they will not accept some amendment from the opposition MPs, he says: "The amendment is not accepted for the reason in Article 64(2). The draft law establishing an obligation, provided that, under the damage caused by the boat owner by the use of the boat to third parties due to the death, injury to the body or health impairment, and the damage that, due to the fall of things or the throw of things out of the boat, the cause of third parties, and not the fall of the face from the boat. “ Mrs Dragutinović, if you understand this explanation, I would like to ask you more clearly to say what you have written completely unwittingly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23174	National MP Zoran Kasalovic submitted to the 70th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 70th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has an MP, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23175	Mr. Kasalovic wrote the amendment, it's similar to mine, not to say it's identical. You adopted his, you didn't adopt mine. But mine is more complete. His amendment applies only to the introductory sentence, which you accepted, and mine also has point 5), with the same intervention. And if you were thinking about adopting an amendment, then it was more logical to adopt mine, which means he was sublimated and his. But that's not the point. I know everything I'd suggest to you, it disgusts you. I don't blame you for that. You simply chose that path. In view of this, almost pathologically, using the word "European Union", I just have to warn you -- why are you bringing Switzerland and Norway into a more unfavourable position, when it comes to this bill, compared to France and Germany? You see, this government is known for its nickname as the Prime Minister. His nickname is Mirko Pacer. That's what his friends call him, Mirko Pacer. He doesn't know how to play cards, he loses, so they say in a joke – Mirko Pacer. But this government has really become a Pacerian. It puts us in an awkward situation towards Norway and Switzerland, the two richest countries in Europe, compared to EU members such as Bulgaria, which is twice as much misery as we are. For what? Because, simply, they're pushing the EU everywhere, and where it needs to be and where it doesn't need to be. Just to draw attention to you, when you write these laws, you wrote in article 70 – jobs that are performed as public powers. See the last point in paragraph 1 - performs other tasks set out in this law. Not all jobs prescribed by law are public authorities. You put in everything and everything, just to make as much of a division as possible. The central regulation concerning insurance companies gives jurisdiction to the National Bank of Serbia. Now, with this mandatory, you're pulling out surveillance and giving it to the Ministry of Finance. Don't get your advantageous argument between G 17 plus and the Democratic Party to raise to the level of the state's problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23176	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before I set a break, I am informing the National Assembly, based on Article 85, paragraph 5, that we will be working today after 1800 hours. We will continue the debate on the agenda point that will be discussed at that time. I'm setting a break now. We continue our work in the afternoon at 15.00 hours of discussion in particular, on an amendment that was submitted to the head above members of the 73rd National MP Gordana Pavnović-Milosavljevic. Thank you. [[After break – 15:00]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session's work in the afternoon debate in particular, on the amendment that was tabled on top of the article 73rd by Parliament of the People Gordana Paunović - Milosavljevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 73 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Mr. Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23178	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I must also explain to the Minister in absentia - regardless of its illogical or sometimes cynical attitude towards amendments submitted by the SRS Parliamentary Group, as was the previous day, we express and oppose our opinion to the Government, concerning the guarantee fund. Is there a need to pass a mandatory traffic insurance law? Yeah, there's nothing to argue about. Is there any need to introduce a guarantee fund? It's something the SRS disagree with. If the provisions of the law were consistently respected, then the guarantee fund should not exist, but you are trained how and in what way you are looking for words that are good for the citizens of Serbia, so when you say "guarantee aid," when you say "providing state aid to Serbian citizens, they really think that this government will do something good for them, and it's actually doing everything the opposite of what it should do. If there was a need for a guarantee fund and your intention to develop Serbia's territory evenly would be sincere... I have to remind you of one thing, you'll probably pass this bill, because you'll have enough votes in the voting day, but think about the next. In article 73, you said the seat of the guarantee fund would be in Belgrade. Why is it that the seat of the guarantee fund, if you introduce it, is not, for example, in Priboj? Why in Priboy? Because we had a big business giant there, the car factory. Move the centre of the guarantee fund from Belgrade to Pribo or Valjevo, to Loznica, anywhere else; then we would partially trust you when you talk about even regional development, that your goal is indeed to develop in a balanced and correct way the entire territory of the Serbian state. But you don't want it, you just want to introduce a large number of institutions and bodies. Since privatisation is almost over and brought to an end, except for those companies you were warned about last night by the president of the Parliamentary Group, Mr Dragan Todorovic, you are now trying to establish some funds, institutions or institutes to which you will transfer some of the budget funds. You predicted that the basic funds for the functioning of this fund were, among other things, the funds from the Republic of Serbia's budget. Already in article 73, you have clearly defined that the funds for the start-up of this fund will be provided in the budget of the Republic of Serbia, but later in some members you say that there are alternative sources of security for some other funds. You will take funds from citizens of the Republic of Serbia through the budget of the Republic of Serbia, place them in a guarantee fund, and then, instead of paying off by insurance companies already privatised, that role will be played by the guarantee fund. There is a new way of robbing Serbian citizens and after selling all the companies you plan to do in this short period of time while you are in power. Yesterday, we talked about state aid to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. state aid control -- there is no help for the citizens of Serbia, to God's help, and eventually, in the next elections, when they show confidence to the Serbian Radical Party, when together the citizens of Serbia and the SRS take the fate and responsibility into their own hands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23179	The time available to the SRS parliamentary group is three minutes and thirty seconds. The word is a letter from the Prophet of Radet, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23180	Madam Chairman, I would like to draw your attention to a member of our 87th Rules of Procedure who says that members of the Government are taking part in meetings of the National Assembly, next to the MPs, etc. I'm just reading the most important part. Madam Minister was here in the afternoon. True, she did not comment on the views of the MPs within their interpretation of the amendments they submitted, but at least she was formally sitting here. I think you're okay with that, and I know that's your position, otherwise, that without a government representative you can't discuss, and in particular, it's not possible to argue without a government representative in particular. You know there's always the possibility that a representative of the government will accept an amendment if the MP convinces him by reason that it makes sense and that it's good for the proposed text of the law, so I ask you best to ensure the presence of a representative of the Government or that we wait for some time for Mrs. Minister to arrive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23181	Minister Diana Dragutinovic is in the building and will be in the O.R. in about ten minutes. He does the same work he does listening to the MPs. The Secretary of State is here, there are representatives of the government. There is no damage to the quality of the debate by not being present in the gym physically for ten minutes during the afternoon or afternoon. He'll be here in ten minutes. Member of the 73rd amendment was submitted by MP Dušanka Plecevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23182	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 1 73's position. The draft mandatory traffic insurance law shall be deleted. This article refers to the establishment of a guarantee fund, which, under the proposal of this law, would deal with the protection of passengers in public transport and damaged persons from an unsecured and unknown means of transport. The government’s argument states that the guarantee fund is established as a special legal person, in accordance with Article 1. The second EU manual. Gentlemen of the government, since you are blindly following EU instructions, why didn't you ask to be funded by the establishment of such funds, agencies, directorates and so forth? Why didn't you explain that Serbia can't take this number of parasites on its mangers anymore? It's completely absurd that, for example, someone with their unsecured i.e. Unregistered vehicle damages someone in public traffic, and that's the damage paid by the citizens of the budget, through the fund. I guess that someone has to pay for whatever damage he's doing, whether he's doing it in traffic or in any other situation. Why would Serbian citizens pay for the damages of those who commit such multiple violations? There is another hypothetical structure of yours, in the form of an "unknown means of transport" whose damage would also be paid by this fund from our pockets. What kind of unknown means of transport? That kind of thing can exist temporarily, until the investigation reveals the perpetrator, like any other offence or crime. Therefore, the situations in which you predict the use of hard-earned money by Serbian citizens through the establishment of this fund and so far have been resolved in an efficient, legal manner -- the damage of the payer of the one who made it, and the point.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23183	Member of the 73rd amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Vitomir Plužarević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23184	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have tabled an amendment in front of the SRS to Article 73, paragraph 2. As did my colleagues who had previously commented on the formation of a guarantee fund, so do we, with this amendment to Article 73(2), propose that Article 2 be deleted for a certain reason, which I will now explain in short lines. We believe that because of our economic crisis and the situation in the world, and because of all these activities currently being carried out by the Republic government and facing them, where the budget is present... You increased VAT, increased excise duties, increased oil prices, and reduced the prices of agricultural products spoken by my colleagues Milorad Krstin, Petar Jojic and others. We believe that the guarantee fund is a new body, as well as an agency, a leech, which only sucks up the national dinar, and it benefits only individuals who know how to unlock that fund with a key carried by the Serbian government. You suggest that this law be passed these days, and the fund will live in two years. You are about to organize yourself, raise your money, and then, where my dear ones are, with a new addition to the new law. This fund, as well as the law on providing assistance, was taking away what it hoped for. I would like to make one comment: $200 billion has done us harm to NATO and EU gentlemen. If one of you who runs this government and this Parliament were to ask the question, whether tomorrow or the day after tomorrow, in Strasbourg or at any level, that they would deprive us and give us back those 200 billion, then it wouldn't make any sense that this fund (which we consider to be excessive) exists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23185	The 7rd amendment was submitted by Parliament member Gordana Pop-Lazic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 73 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dobrislav Prelic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Dobrislav Prelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23186	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as well as my colleagues, I have submitted an amendment, which reads in Article 73, paragraph 4. The position of the Serbian Radical Party is generally known; we are generally against the establishment of all funds, agencies, etc., since it is widely known how much you have increased the state apparatus since 2000. We think that it is absolutely unnecessary to set up any new fund; that it is only an additional burden for citizens of Serbia; that all of this can be done in certain ministries in the prebooked administration anyway, that it can be done by the personnel you currently have. What's particularly interesting about these points of the agenda is the title where these three points are united, and that's the bill of state control. This is what I purposely said and emphasized – about control. What kind of control are you gentlemen talking about when you haven't submitted your final bill in eight years? That's why you know you control everyone else, start with small, medium-sized enterprises, ride on our citizens' backs, skin off their backs. The people are on the verge of existence. From day to day, more and more strikes are being striked. Yesterday in Nis, people came into a situation to cut off their finger and eat. You're absolutely not interested in that. Call on your senses and start thinking about the citizens of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23187	The title above Article 74 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Marina Ragush. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 74 of the amendment was tabled by the People's Parliament of the People's Republic of Rade. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from the Verse of Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23188	In Article 74(1), it prescribes what the tasks of the guarantee fund are and provides a definition, says: “The guarantee fund is established for the economic protection of passengers in public transport and third parties damaged, in cases where the damage is caused by the use of an unsecured or unknown means of transport, as well as for damages to which the insurance company is responsible for which the bankruptcy proceedings have been initiated, in accordance with this law. “ In this very definition, you have justified all our amendments to which we are asking for the removal of the guarantee fund, or we suggest that the guarantee fund be not an integral part of this law. You've heard and heard our argument that we are absolutely opposed to the para-state authorities, behind which different ministries are actually hiding. If we're talking about the use of an unsecured or unknown means of transport, isn't that the job of the police department? Does the Ministry of Police do its job if we have vehicles like this described in Article 74? Or, you say, for the damages of the responsible insurance company over which the bankruptcy proceedings were initiated. There is already someone who manages bankruptcy proceedings, but there is already some agency that keeps track of all started or completed bankruptcy procedures, but all this is not enough, it needs another fund, it needs another cost on the back of Serbian citizens. We'll keep this up, of course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23189	National MP Milovan Radovanovic submitted to the 74th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Milovan Radovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23190	In favour of the position of the Serbian Radical Party is the amendment that I have submitted to Article 74, which requires that Article 2 of Article 74 be deleted, because this is because we do not want, especially in this situation, to say not that phrase, the global economic crisis, which is being exaggerated and which, on the one hand, justifys the citizens of Serbia the difficult economic and social situation, and on the other hand, the citizens of the Republic of Serbia's budget for funding various bureaus, information centres, agencies and so on... This introduces another administrative state body that needs to spend huge money, and efficiency in all of this is at large a question. Of course, in the position of Article 74, which I have submitted to the amendment, you have stated, I must admit, a very good explanation which, people say, “drinks water, ” and that is the good part. But, on the other hand, increasing the administration at this point is really unwarranted and unacceptable. On the one hand, we are talking about austerity measures, measures of rationalisation; this is where many members of the government direct us, I recently heard Bozidar Djelic say that it should be saved, that we should focus the home budget on the most fundamental existential needs. On the other hand, money from the Republic of Serbia's budget, all Serbian citizens, is being wasted on other irrelevant matters, to a greater extent, although there are other justified reasons. In any case, we cannot say from the SRS that no guarantee fund is needed, but in this situation, especially when every dinar needs to be directed towards existence, both in public consumption and in all Serbian citizens, should wait for it. We in the Serbian Radical Party are in principle, and in that sense this amendment is also filed against any increase in the administration. Thank you. The seconds are gone.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23191	Member of the 74th Amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Nikola Savic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23192	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 74. Proposal for a mandatory traffic insurance law. As you can see, this member also treats the Guarantee Fund and this amendment, as well as my colleagues' amendments, gives critical consideration to this fund and its work. In fact, the law shows that funds for the start of the fund are provided in the Republic of Serbia's budget. I must say, you seem to have forgotten that in Serbia, as in the whole world, there is an economic crisis and that the budget lacks funds for much more important purposes than this. It is said that this fund for its liabilities corresponds to its assets, however, neither can it be seen from the law nor can it be assumed that there is any property of the guarantee fund and, if possible, how much it is. All that matters to you is that the guarantee fund has the chairman of the board of directors, the board of directors, the director of the board of directors and that all these gentlemen are appointed by the Government and, of course, that they have a certain compensation for their work, that is to say, the application. Given the economic crisis, I think it is another imposition on the Republic of Serbia's budget. Also, the law provides for conditions to be met by board members and directors. The law says they should be recognised by law experts in the field of law, economy and insurance, but I think the word "engineers" is left out in this law, because engineers are in the most direct way incorporated into these things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23193	Member of the 74th Amendment was submitted by MP Suleiman Spaho. Does anyone want a word? Please, MP, just press the corresponding key once.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23194	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have tabled an amendment to Article 74, paragraph 2, point 3, which is literally to be deleted. With this law, we establish another state institution that will be financed by Serbian citizens, already burdened with numerous taxes and other fiscal taxes, which will allow them to live even worse than they have ever lived. It raises the question of the limits of the sustainability of citizens and the inconclusion of the current government in the waste of hard-earned folk money. The Serbian Radical Party opposes the current government's activities to establish agencies, funds, commissions financed from state funds, or from the Republika Srpska budget almost every day. The Guarantee Fund is another state body, in fact, a legal person who performs the tasks defined by the provisions of Article 74. It's a bill of law. The current government has dropped control in the area of insurance, which, under the provisions of the Law on the National Bank of Serbia, is being carried out by a special body of the National Bank. Believe that control isn't there either. Insurance companies work at their discretion, we all know that, not respecting the interests of citizens, but only their own interests and interests of the shareholders of these societies. The guarantee fund, as a state body, cannot meet all the anomalies that exist in the area of traffic insurance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23195	Members of the 74th amendment were submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Dragan Stevanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23196	Mrs. Komic, if you do not take me for harm, I would like to remind you that ten minutes have expired, and you have promised that so many ministers, or an authorised representative of the government, will come. They may have the right to mock the Assembly, but you are also obliged, on behalf of all of us, to protect us from all of this, certainly respecting the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, which you have voted for, which you have adopted. My question at this point, and as for the guarantee fund, is – why did the government provide for the law to be adopted by an emergency procedure? The lady's here, she's here. In the light of this law, it doesn't say that. Why does it matter? Article 73 further provides for the definition, i.e. the formation of a guarantee fund. The law elaborates on funding, the way money is spent, the administrative authorities, the executive bodies of the fund, all the way down to detail, and then you write in the law that the fund will start working in two years, and that from the day of the entry into force of this law. This same law will enter into force on the 60th day of its publication in "The Official Messenger". Why is this so and what is it that justifies the urgency of the procedure when it comes to this law? We understand that you are calling for EU practice, but this does not always have to be the cost side of the Republic of Serbia's budget. We would really be happy and happy if you started to apply and adopt standards that would provide the revenue side of the Republic of Serbia's budget. So, can an authorised representative of the government tell us when this whole law will begin to apply? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23197	National MP Filip Stojanovic submitted to the 74th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Filip Stojanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23198	Dear Members of the People, ladies and gentlemen, the Honorable Minister, I have submitted an amendment to Article 74. Proposal for a mandatory traffic insurance law which I suggest deletes Article 3. Our intention is to show the citizens of Serbia that this regime is making reckless moves at the time of the economic crisis. So this proposal for the DS law creates another state body, a guarantee fund. Of course, Serbian citizens will have to pay for all this. In Article 73, the proposings states: "The funds for the establishment and start of the guarantee fund are provided in the Republic of Serbia's budget. “ Again, we have no record of what these funds are. In the transitional and final provisions, you are preparing the ground for the unlawful recognition of Kosovo and Metohija's independence, as in that part, the promoters say: "The provisions of Article will apply until the accession of the Republic of the European Union. 1 - 101. Proposal for a law, except for questions which are provided by the provisions of the Article. 103 - 108. The proposal for a law is otherwise regulated (Article 102). The following issues are particularly regulated: the territorial importance of the mandatory insurance contract (on the territory of the Republic of Serbia, unless otherwise provided for by the international agreement)... “ It’s just a matter of time before I go home. ” In the Constitution of Serbia, the highest legal act in the country, the territory of the Republic of Serbia is unique and indivisible. The regime of the Democratic Party and its satellites in this part notes that this does not apply if some international contract exempts the territory of the southern Serbian province. This means the DS is seeking to break Serbia. To prevent this blow to the pocket of Serbian citizens and to divide our territory, I urge you to accept my amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23199	The title above article 75 was submitted by MP Dragan Todorovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Marina Toman submitted to Article 75 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter by Marina Toman.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23200	With this amendment, we propose that Article 75 point (1) be deleted. The Serbian Radical Party believes the current situation of the general economic crisis is a problem to cover the budget deficit when the governor and individual government representatives propose an increase in VAT. The establishment of another state body such as the guarantee fund is a non-local and economically inappropriate move by the Serbian government, a move that does not follow the economic reality here. The fact that the establishment of a guarantee fund is foreseen at the end of two years from the date of entry into force of the bill's proposal raises another question – why is it established after two years and does this not confirm the position of the Serbian Radical Party that this area can be regulated without a guarantee fund, i.e. by judicial means, as so far? The length of court disputes is a matter for the government, which must certainly solve the problem of the efficiency of the judicial system. The amendment is a logical trail of previous amendments and requires the removal of the guarantee fund. The position of the SRS is, once again, that the economic protection of passengers and third-party damaged persons can be achieved in another way, rather than by establishing another state body whose work will fall on the burden, above all, of taxpayers. Under the bill, the highest funding in the guarantee fund is provided from the Republic of Serbia's budget. Some of these funds are also investment revenues and other assets of the guarantee fund, which are also realised on the basis of funds from the budget fund. However, we must ask who guarantees whether the guarantee fund will achieve revenue rather than expenditure that will fall back on the burden of the budget? Finally, the guarantee fund will be nothing more than another unnecessary budget cost.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23201	National MP Natasa Jovanovic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23202	I'm reporting on the basis of Article 31. Rules of Procedure. Mrs. Komic, MPs from our parliamentary group react, but also others, I don't know if you noticed, but five speakers spoke about amendments, and on monitors in the internal transmission in the hall, the picture was black. While I'm talking now, there's nothing, so I'd like to ask you to check on what this is all about right now. You'll say it doesn't matter because it's an RTS transmission with other cameras, but you have to understand that colleagues sitting on the left of us from the Socialist Party, or colleagues from the SPS, or DS, can't clearly see the speaker from the SRS, and our amendments are. I don't know what this is about, I tried to explain to them that it's a digital camera that's in the field looking for a parliamentary unit and speakers per room, but this has never happened in all the failures of the technique we've had. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23203	People's MPs, it's about abuse of right to word. The provision you tried to explain doesn't exist anywhere in the Rules of Procedure. The public of work is secured, the right to free word is secured. I warn you that this is a reason for me to give you a warning measure and not abuse the right to receive a word on the basis of article 100 and not to humiliate the National Assembly by playing with the freedoms and rights of the MPs. Members of the 75th Amendment were submitted by MP Milan Škrbic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 75 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Babic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 75 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljubisa Petkovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Ljubisa Petkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23204	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 75 point one. 3) and suggested eradicating her. If there were more order in the state of Serbia, according to the SRS, an institution such as a guarantee fund should not even exist. Government in Article 75(1) The bill also defines the original assets of the guarantee fund and says the original funds are the funds of the Republic of Serbia's budget. There are two problems for us in the SRS regarding the allocation of funds from the Republic of Serbia's budget. The first is, why should unconscious citizens protect the budget of the Republic of Serbia? Secondly, if you have defined yourself to allocate funds from the Republic of Serbia's budget and help unconscious citizens, you do not specify what the amount of funds is, so that can be the total amount. Based on the argument given, I expect the Parliament to accept my amendment in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23205	The word is for Messenger Mirko Chikiriz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23206	As regards this amendment, of course, I would suggest that it, as well as the previous amendments which require the erasure of the provisions on the existence of a guarantee fund, be not accepted. The fact is that by 1996, we had a legal solution whereby damages from unsecured vehicles could be charged by any insurance company from the territory of the Republic of Serbia, and then "Dunav insurance", as privileged or, as it was called, by a state-owned undertaking, was overloaded by lawsuits, because it was known to be the best business, that state funds stand behind that society; then it was, neither wrongly nor necessarily, paying the damages caused by unsecured vehicles or by unknown perpetrators. The current legal solution, before this law of course, envisions the existence of a guarantee fund at the Association of Insurance Organisations of Yugoslavia. Why is a guarantee fund now formed as a special legal person? Just for the sake of need. Why is no percentage participation of funds from the Republic of Serbia's budget in the guarantee fund reserve not defined? Simply because there is no predicting how much damage there will be from unsecured vehicles, there is no telling how much that amount is, and since the operations of insurance organisations, which are now fully operating in accordance with the law and which, because of their allocation of funds to the guarantee fund, have been fined twice because of those insurance organisations that did not operate in accordance with the law... They were fined twice for the following reasons: they paid their own damages, they paid the damages that were not paid by other insurance companies, which had deliberately done business against the law, took funds from the insurance premium, and did not pay the injured persons any damage. If part of the funds from the Republic of Serbia's budget would not be paid into the guarantee fund, that means that again the security insurance companies would be punished twice, paying their and other damages.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23207	National MP Milan Avramovic submitted to the 75th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Milan Avramović.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23208	And this amendment applies to the way in which the guarantee fund is financed. What is proposed in the amendment is to delete point 4 that says – other sources according to the law, which means how to fill the budget of this fund. I would also like to comment on the government's argument that the establishment of a guarantee fund is in accordance with Article 1. The second handbook of the European Union. Since you Europeans have put so many provisions, downfalls and verbs, and everything that is grammatically wrong, binding to two letters – the EU, I ask you why there are no IPA funds available now, why is there no grants from the international community and other European community programmes? Why is there no credit for international financial institutions and business banks now? What does this point 4 mean – other sources according to the law? Will this "other sources" refer to donations, contributions and gifts of legal and natural persons? What does point 3 mean – income from investments? Will this guarantee fund have its own business to increase its financial power; or, how will it invest a guarantee fund, and in what, to get those funds back? The fact is that the IPA Fund has five components, one of which refers to human resources and the construction of traffic-related institutions. We don't see that possibility here, we see that possibility here when it comes to division and dispersion, more specifically, your statistical regionalization, and when you need to decompose yourself to the citizens, there's no help. I would ask another question – how does this fund know how many car accidents are going to happen in one year, and how does it have any idea how many damages they're going to do in one year? How is this guarantee fund's spending program being made? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23209	National MP Boris Aleksic submitted to the 75th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 75 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Acimovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 75 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Elena Christmas-Talian. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 75 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. The word is Mr. Milorad Buha.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23210	On behalf of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 75(5) and requested that this position be deleted. Article 75(5) provides that the level of the insurance company's contribution shall be determined by the Management Board of the Guarantee Fund, with the consent of the Government. Why did I ask you to delete this attitude? In fact, the full member of the 75th is incomplete and unspeakable in financial terms. In Article 75, it is said that the resources of the guarantee fund stem from the contributions of insurance companies, budget funds, investment revenue and other incomes of the guarantee fund, other sources in accordance with the law. The practical and pragmatic question arises: who can be in the role of the fund's fund at the moment? Could that be the budget? You've predicted here, but the question is how much money. How will the Management Board of the Guarantee Fund tomorrow when the Management Board is elected draw up a financial plan? What financial indicators does the guarantee fund have to draw up a financial plan? You stated here in Section 3 and 4 how to aliminate funds from insurance companies. However, I am now asking one particular question – can insurance companies be sufficient fund-holder of this fund, if the state and other sources of income cannot do so? I don't think so. On the other hand, we don't even have sanctions for those who don't pay, that is, too long will be a court procedure for all those funds that are necessary for security. That is why I propose that this amendment be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23211	The title above the 76th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Veselinovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 76 of the amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Vukicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 76 of the amendment was submitted by MP Jadranko Vukovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Jadranko Vukovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23212	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have tabled an amendment to Article 76 of item 1 of point 2), which the Proposer rejected with a reason that the amendment is not accepted because the position determines the means of compensation for damaged persons. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS believes that in the current situation, the general economic crisis is the establishment of another state body such as the guarantee fund is a non-road, cost-effective move by the Serbian government. In this particular case, in the proposal for a mandatory traffic insurance law, we meet with a guarantee fund, so another new state body that the Serbian government is forming, a new body that will be another user of the already burdened budget of the Republic of Serbia. The Serbian Radical Party, who knows for what time, in discussions and discussions on all these amendments, wonders where this end is, at the time of today's general economic and any other crisis, how does the Serbian Government behave, what kind of savings is here, when it seems exactly the opposite? For all these reasons, my amendment is to delete the mandatory traffic insurance bill in Article 76 paragraph 1(2). Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23213	Member of the 76th Amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Vukovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Slobodan Vukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23214	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, based on article 147. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I submit an amendment to the draft law on mandatory traffic insurance. The amendment refers to Article 76(1) of point 3 and this amendment proposes that this point be deleted. The explanation -- the SRS believes that in the current situation of the general economic crisis, the establishment of another state body such as the guarantee fund is a non-road, cost-effective move by the Serbian government is at the heart of citizens. The explanation of why this amendment was rejected reads: "Amendment is not accepted because the position determines the purpose of the means of compensation for damaged persons. “ This point provides for compensation for the damage caused by the use of motor vehicle, aircraft, boat or other means of transport for which the compulsory insurance agreement with the insurance company is concluded. There are a few questions opening up here. The promoter obviously intends to take people's money out of the budget. Whoever has provided his means, who is seeking damage, should obviously address that insurance company that took the money for it. I'm explaining this for the citizens who need to understand what's going on here. This company, this insurance company, has in some way failed (this is what this point is talking about) and a bankruptcy procedure has been initiated against that organisation. First, why does the Government not do everything in its power to speed up and liquidate such bankruptcy? Secondly, the question arises why is no damage compensated from bankruptcy, not that people pay for damages to an insurance company that does not work properly and comes to terms with paying citizens for it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23215	The time available to the parliamentary group is two minutes and thirty seconds. The 76th Amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Momcilo Duvnjak submitted the title above Article 77 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branimir Djokić. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Branimir Djokić.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23216	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, I have submitted an amendment to Article 77. The Serbian Radical Party believes that in the current situation, the general economic crisis is the establishment of another state body such as the guarantee fund is a non-road, cost-effective move by the Serbian government. I don't think this is the time, in this economic crisis, that these funds are being set up, so I believe, on behalf of myself and on behalf of the SRS, that this article 77 should be deleted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23217	The title above article 78 was submitted by MP Srboljub Zivanovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Srboljub Zivanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23218	Ladies and gentlemen, I have submitted an amendment to Article 78, and the title above the amendment is deleted. The Government's reply is that it does not accept my amendment because the position establishes the management and investment of funds intended to pay the damage. Ladies and gentlemen, as you can see, investment has begun from the state budget. I don't know how long it's been called investment, but it's probably now, according to the new financial dictionary, and it's starting to be investment. Your friends from the EU probably don't trust you anymore, or they don't trust our insurance houses. In fact, they're supposed to believe to you that from the state budget, and through this guarantee fund, they can take money if there's any damage to their vehicles or even to the people who died in some kind of car accident. This tells you once again how much your European friends do not believe you, as well as the Partnership for Peace you have signed, when their army can be in Serbia's territory, can burn and burn, rape, but that it does not correspond to any of our courts, but corresponds to the court of its state. As you can see, your European friends don't trust you. They don't believe it, because many ministers who were in previous governments have dirtyed their hands, become part of the mafia, become a symbiosis of the mafia and newly-compromised businessmen. That's what the IMF is probably about, and all possible associations of Europe don't trust you anymore, so now you see. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23219	Member of the 78th Amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Zivkov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 78 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Žutić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 78 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Radisa Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23220	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 78. The proposal for a mandatory traffic insurance law, with a proposal to delete the position of the 3rd member, which reads: "The assets of Article 1, paragraph 1, cannot be subject to forced payment. “ Article 78. The proposal for a mandatory traffic insurance law refers to the management and investment of funds intended for the payment of damages. Article 73 states that the guarantee fund is established for the purpose of economic protection of passengers in public transport and third parties in cases where the damage is caused by the use of an unsecured or unknown means of transport, as well as for damages to which the insurance company is responsible for the bankruptcy. As far as the guarantee fund is concerned, it is really unnecessary, given that the judiciary has been functioning in Serbia, which has solved the aforementioned situations in accordance with existing laws. The proposed trust fund was established on the same principle as the established commissions, councils or agencies. The guarantee fund will be pooled with funds from the Republic of Serbia's budget, then from the contributions of insurance and income companies from investments and other incomes from the guarantee fund. The funds are likely to be significant and the question is who will continue to monitor how the authorised authority will dispose of these funds. On a practical note, it is really unclear why you should be taking funds from a guarantee fund if the damage is done by someone with an unsecured means of transport. That unsub has a name and name, or company name. For this there is a Law on Violations and Criminal Law and the application of these laws, the damage done can be settled.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23221	National MP Vladan Jeremic submitted the title above article 79th. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Vladan Jeremic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23222	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, the title above article 79 is "Responsibility". On behalf of the SRS Parliamentary Group, I have submitted an amendment asking for the removal of the title above Article 79, because if we have crossed the path of evolution from the global economic crisis as a chance for Serbia to not reflect on Serbia's economy, if we know that the decline in Serbian budget revenue has already shown at the beginning of this year how unrealistic and pointless the claims were and when budget revenues were even lower by 21% than planned or about 137,00,000 euros, then it must in particular worry that such a fall in budget revenues was mainly due to the collection of tax on company profits. If we add to all of this a major drop in industrial production, it is clear that Serbia's economy has been collapsed since the beginning of this year. In response to this poor situation, the government's anti-crisis programme envisioned around 1,300,000 euros to help Serbia's economy and citizens, which is certainly a large sum for a small and poor country such as Serbia. However, as in some earlier cases, the dispute against the sale of NIS to Russia's Gazprom, an announcement of the business of the century between Italy's Fiat and the Kragujevac car factory, has divided five million so-called "Fiita" and the Kragujevac car factory. Free action to Serbian citizens has proved that all these claims are not based on real economic data, but primarily on political phrases and demagogy, which is designed at the IMF headquarters in Washington or another Western propaganda centre. Of the entire amount, it is only certain that 84,000 euros will be invested by the state of Serbia, and the rest should be provided by the foreign sector, more specifically, by Western banks. With all this in mind, it is irresponsible to form another state body, and all under another law that stems from obligations towards the EU. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23223	National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 79th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23224	On behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I asked that Article 79 be deleted because it says that the guarantee fund corresponds to its assets, and the bill promoter, i.e. the government, Mrs Dragutinovic, did not specify what the asset of the guarantee fund is. We see from which means to fill the guarantee fund, i.e. the funds from the Republic of Serbia's budget (probably you know what they are) filled with a guarantee fund, but no assets are available. Since it has been announced that the president of the Republic of Boris Tadic will move from Andric's wedding, from this building of the presidency to Dedinje, it is possible that the guarantee fund will have the presidency building in its possession, or another building. We really don't know what this is about, how someone can guarantee their property for something they don't own? We know that the Republic Pension and Disabilities Insurance Fund owns certain assets. We know some other funds in the state have their own assets, but the guarantee fund doesn't have any. There are funds that are questionable, especially in the situation, which he also spoke about, when the country's political and economic crisis is complete, particularly economically, and when it is projected that it will "shake" the Republic of Serbia especially next year, since all economists agree with the assessment that a dramatic drop in GDP is expected, and the state of Serbia, except for one law and a proposal for measures known only to Boris Tadic, possibly some of you, does not know how to get out of the economic crisis. Unlike us, the countries of the Shanghai Organisation and BRIK groups that gathered together, headed by Russian President Medvedov, brought clear guidance yesterday on how these countries, which are gathered in two associations involving three billion people, operate in a period of time, they say, as countries that are powers, have so many people, in a period of only the coming crisis. The state of Serbia and this government -- and not to mention the president of a state that interferes directly in the work of the government and the legislative authorities, since he said last night when the Assembly will work, in which period we will have a vacation -- there is no clear solution, unlike the BRIK Group countries, headed by Russia, China, India and Brazil, how to get out of this difficult crisis. Where is our national currency today? Is this empowered, as some media call it, the dinar course a product of direct increased production, exports, when we know that hundreds of tons of fruit have failed, especially cherries in the Sabbath and other parts of Serbia? Therefore, there is a complete economy of destruction here, which cannot guarantee even Serbian citizens that they will have regular incomes, especially for poor pensioners, both for agricultural and other pensioners. The trust fund doesn't own any property. Or, if there is, it is your obligation, Madam Minister, to answer me, or to the SRS Parliamentary Group, which is the property of which the guarantee fund will stand behind its obligations?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23225	The remaining time available to the SRS parliamentary group is 45 seconds. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 80th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23226	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as far as this amendment is concerned, the SRS thinks that this article 80 is really pointless and that it does not contain a norm that should be effective and be of some importance when it comes to the guarantee fund. This isn't about how many employees there are in that guarantee fund, what they're going to be. The Rules of Procedure, they said, were to bring consent to the Rules of Procedure, however, should have been given by the National Assembly. As far as the guarantee fund is concerned, will the Government of the Republic of Serbia form one guarantee fund, whether or not it is called, that will provide and protect the disreputed workers? First of all, they're workers who are out of work, who have been chased by tycoons from factories and businesses. I'm asking the Minister of Finance and I'm asking the Secretary of State and I'm asking the President or the Chairman to forward this question to the Prime Minister: since it's Panchevo? Panchevo, above all, had in Serbia and the former Yugoslavia the first glass mill, the first factory of aircraft, the first brewery, the first azotar... (President: National MP, please bring Panchevo into contact with the topic of the agenda and remember the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. I'm sorry, I'm saying, will there be, please, a fund to protect workers, those who die, who are hungry... (President: National MP, Article 103, Article 106, is allowed to speak only about what is on the agenda, and I ask you not to violate the Rules of Procedure. Here you go. This is supposed to be in a relationship. This isn't too inclusive, this is mostly instructive... (President: National MP, bring in Panchevo and traffic security. In that case, it'll be fine. I'm talking about the government still having to take care of the disreputed people and the downtrodden workers. Here's the guarantee fund. You see, the trust fund has huge resources. Today, Mr Krasic said it was about 15 billion dinars. Where's the money from this amount, if you consider now some mathematician who's going to say, here, seven billion is left, for what purpose is that money going to? He could have gone to Panchevo because Panchevo was sold for free. All the factories are in Pancheva, I have to tell you, sell. Let some guarantee fund be formed that will guarantee the citizens, I believe that you, too, stand up for it, that the citizens... You see, Azotara is closed, no artificial fertilizer for farmers. Why doesn't some trust fund, the government's money be provided for those workers? They're 3,000 out of a job, haven't received a yellow bank in a year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23227	National MP Radica Jocic submitted to the 80th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter, Radica Jocic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23228	On behalf of the SRS Parliamentary Group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 80. Proposal for a mandatory traffic insurance law, which I asked for Article 80(1) to be deleted. The government's argument states that the amendment has not been accepted, as this stance determines that the guarantee fund has statutes and other general acts in accordance with the law. This, ladies and gentlemen, is being told to you every day by the MPs of the SRS: every law you adopt in this hall, immediately, at first, in the first few members, or possibly later, means the formation of additional funds, agencies and commissions, which sometimes have very broad powers that very often cannot be adequately controlled. The questions of the guarantee fund organisation and business shall be governed by the statute of the fund, to which the government agrees. If a guarantee fund can only be established two years after the law enters into force, it is very likely that the protection of passengers and third parties can be regulated in another way, without establishing a guarantee fund. At a time when Serbian citizens are finding it increasingly difficult to survive, which means only to feed and provide a minimum of existence, the government has the courage to propose the formation of another fund, which means again the president, board members, directors and others. How much longer? The smaller the state, the more the administration gets. I only have one question – what production will make money for all this administration? When does the government intend to take any steps to launch production in this country? How long do you plan on inventing jobs that just mean getting paid? Maybe this is too simple to say, but that's the point. Once again, the admission of personnel will take place in an alleged public competition and, by chance, only DS or G 17 will have the necessary frame, and again, according to the already seen scenario, there will be party personnel on the budget. Of course, the fund's headquarters will be in Belgrade, reportedly due to easier co-operation with similar institutions, and all to the pompously announced decentralisation and even regional development. That is why the position of the SRS on this issue is clear: in the current situation of the general economic crisis, the establishment of another state body such as the guarantee fund is a non-road and cost-effective move by the Serbian government.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23229	The time available to the MP's group is another 15 seconds. National MP Ljubomir Kragovic submitted to the 80th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Ljubomir Kragovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23230	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on the proposal for a mandatory traffic insurance law, I have filed before the SRS an amendment to delete Article 80(2). In order to make it more clear why I asked for Article 2 to be deleted, I will read Article 80, which defines general acts and profits: "The Guarantee Fund has statutes and other general acts, in accordance with law and statute. The Statute shall be adopted by the Management Board of the Guarantee Fund, with the consent of the Government. The statute is given to the National Bank of Serbia for an opinion before the government is delivered. The Management Board of the Guarantee Fund shall consider the NBS observations. The Management Board of the Guarantee Fund shall inform the Government of any objections which it has not accepted and the reasons for not accepting those objections when submitting the statutes to consent. The Statute of the Guarantee Fund shall regulate the organisation and business of the Guarantee Fund. For earnings, fees and other remuneration of employees in the guarantee fund, the rules on earnings, fees and other public services are applied accordingly. “ This member defines the administrative reason why the SRS Group is asking to stop setting up these so - called SRS. The agency, the commission, the funds, which have only one goal, which is that the fine is still an impoverished Serbian people, who cannot survive. You're making up all kinds of funds, commissions, agencies, and I can swear there aren't any ministers who can count how many there are in the government right now. That would be one of the questions to anyone in the government, from prime ministers to all ministers. I claim that none could count them, because it is a big machine, which only serves to employ your party colleagues and your party friends, and at the expense of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, which, thanks to these funds, commissions and agencies, will live only worse and worse and harder and harder. Because for fund members, the commission, the agency has to find resources, and let the people suffer, and let them suffer, and let them live as they know and know.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23231	National MP, the time available to explain the amendments and the time available to the SRS parliamentary group has been used. On Article 80 of the amendment, in the same text, are mid-term MPs Zoran Mašić and Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23232	Although this member refers to the statutes and general acts, I think it is much more important to conclude the following: the owners of motor vehicles, the owners of those motor vehicles that intend to use those motor vehicles, are obliged to ensure, in the event of damage. The variant of a vehicle whose owner did not provide that type of insurance, or to appear unknown, is very rare. However, they are more important to the guarantee fund because it is reportedly in some EU directive, so let's also have it with us. It is more important because of those insurance companies that go into bankruptcy, so they need to settle down on this basis of damage, and to make a choice of funds to settle that damage. The point is the next one. There's general law, insurance law. There, when it goes bankrupt, it's another procedure. The procedure in force in that law should also apply to this variant of insurance, which is compulsory insurance. But they're running away from it. They simply do not care, but they need to get closer to the EU, to imitate what is in them. When it comes to vehicles which are not insured or unknown, then there is responsibility for the general principles of guilt and for the vehicle as a dangerous thing to cause damage. However, they need to exercise full control of all financial flows and so they invented this fund, counting on it to be something similar to banks; we have a deposit insurance agency there, bank liquidation, etc. And that's where they mess up the ones who want to mess up here. There's a little more G17 plus, there's going to be a little more of those who are closer to the Democratic Party. I don't know why you're looking for the enthusiasm and complicity of all MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23233	The word has a folk letter from Judita Popovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23234	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would begin to conclude that there is also a positive shift in the problem of compulsory insurance. First of all, this refers to the fact that the role of the guarantee fund is much more seriously defined, especially since the guarantee fund is obliged to pay the compensation to the person who suffered in the car accident, in case the insurance company is in a bankruptcy procedure, so if the bankruptcy procedure is initiated. So far, it has been a practice, i.e. the law, that the guarantee fund should take over the role of the defendant insurance company only in the event that the bankruptcy proceedings are terminated. For this reason, we have had people prosecuted for years because they cannot end their claim for damages, because the proceedings before the courts are suspended until the bankruptcy proceedings are over, and bankruptcy proceedings are ongoing, so these litigation proceedings are also ongoing because they are in direct connection with the completion of the bankruptcy proceedings. That is why it has happened many times that whoever applied for damages and did not experience any satisfaction in terms of compensation for damages. That is why this solution is good, as regards the role of the guarantee fund, already in the opening of the bankruptcy procedure. However, in addition to this solution being positive, it is obvious that it is not fixed. Why isn't it finished? For this reason, the law does not regulate what happens in cases where an insurance company goes into bankruptcy proceedings during a litigation procedure. So, if they've been on trial for years, and we know how our courts judge, the insurance company goes bankrupt, then what happens to the claim, what happens to the damages? Well, it happens that the process, in practice so far, begins from the beginning. What's the result? The result is a long-term trial, double court proceedings, because so far, the first person to suffer damage and insurance companies has been tried. When the insurance company went into bankruptcy and after the bankruptcy procedure ended, the guarantee fund entered the case instead. But then it all begins from the beginning, as the alleged guarantee fund can only account for the damage found against it in a normal, regular court procedure. The existing legislative proposal does not address this big problem of compensation for damages against the guarantee fund because the guarantee fund, under this proposal of the law, is bound by the pest, normally, when the insurance company goes bankrupt, or when the bankruptcy proceedings are initiated. However, it is not said specifically and clearly what happens to the existing procedures, whether the guarantee fund comes into a lawsuit as a legal follower or once again moves the whole story from the beginning. This is one serious inconsistencies of the bill and does not solve existing dilemmas and the existing problem of the trial for damages. I'm saying this for this reason because in my long-standing law practice, I've had the opportunity to see how much trouble it is to make a certain claim for compensation, how much time it takes to realize this prosecutor's need to get that compensation. Therefore, it was really much easier for the law to resolve this ambiguity and this dilemma, which will also become current again when this law comes into force and most likely will. As a result, we believe that the problem of the guarantee fund has not been fully resolved, although to a large extent a solution has been improved regarding the time when it becomes binding on the person who has suffered certain damages. Otherwise, LDP generally has several objections to this bill. The first of these objections concerns the fact that this law, as well as many other laws, is put into practice in an emergency procedure. So we "quickly" started to discuss one law, with at least twenty provisions in place, i.e. starting to apply only after the Republic of Serbia has joined the European Union. So it's a little strange that he's in such a hurry to pass this law, if we delay the application of at least 20 members of the law, legal provisions. In any case, it remains an obstacle not to see why certain solutions, which are much better than the existing law, would be delayed until Serbia's EU accession. Otherwise, there are several other members of the law whose stay is scheduled – at the end of three years, after the end of one year, by 1 January etc. This law itself will take effect at the end of 90 days from the day of publication. So these are all some deadlines that are completely unnecessary, because legal solutions are really not new to that extent and to that extent burdensome to apply so much delay in their application. Our next observation, as far as the law is concerned, is that insurance companies are put back in a much more favourable position than those who are obliged to ensure their liability to third parties of auto responsibility. Therefore, it is again the citizens who are in a somewhat subordinate position to insurance companies, who apparently had a strong lobby in terms of making this law, because how else to explain Articles 24, 29 and 95 of the legislative proposal. In fact, Article 24 provides for compensation. He says: “The insurance company determines the damage to the face by applying the prescribed criteria for compensation and damages. “ So there are some criteria that are not clearly indicated in the bill. Who determines these criteria? Paragraph 2 states: “The government is drawing closer to the method and criteria for determining the material damage and the way and criteria for determining the immaterial damage... “ It’s just a matter of time before I go home. ” Again, something is left to the Government; once this law is passed in the regular assembly procedure, when MPs have the opportunity and the opportunity to discuss this law, it is left to the Government, in its opinion, to determine the criteria by which the damage compensation will take place, and in particular the compensation of immaterial damages, shall take place. Otherwise, it's always a problem to determine the amount of immaterial damage. In the case of material damage, you have clear evidence, you have accounts, you have a much more exact way of determining the amount of that damage, unlike immaterial damage, which is often left to some court practice. The case law with us could not be a source of law. However, we often use one generally taken practice, agreement of courts, judicial councils in which to judge what heights for certain types of immaterial damage. Therefore, if the Government decides on the criteria for determining the amount of material and immaterial damage, we do not have a transparent vision of how these damages will indeed be determined, who can make these criteria clearly label and present to the Government to decide. As a result, we believe that insurance companies are in a more favourable position than the other party, which should expect compensation in one of these proceedings. If we start from the assumption that insurance companies are in a more favourable position, then it becomes clear why it is conditioned that the person who suffered certain damage before addressing the court must first address the insurance company in order to try to collect damage from the insurance company. It's clear why your deadlines are so long, and it's 90 days. Why is that, in fact, a problem? Because we are guaranteed by the Constitution that everyone has the right to address the court and ask to be tried for a certain request. We have a constitution guaranteeing free access to justice and justice. However, the solutions to this bill limit this right. You can't go to court directly. You must first contact whoever decides in a three-month procedure whether or not to compensate you for the damage, although under the law it is binding to compensate for damages, because a mandatory insurance contract has been concluded. Therefore, it leaves the possibility for the self-will of an insurance company and allows the insurance company to dictate the conditions and convince those lay people who do not have sufficient resources to address the procedure at that stage for professional assistance, legal and legal assistance and to satisfy them with far smaller amounts of compensation than they would possibly have the right to do. I believe that such a solution is that primarily insurance companies must address insurance companies and that only after they do not accept what is offered by the insurance company or if the insurance company refuses to apply can the court, an unconstitutional and unconstitutional legal solution be addressed. We believe it is necessary to leave the citizen's freedom to decide whether to make an extrajudicial settlement, unburdened. It is his choice whether he will address the insurance company before addressing the court. (President: Mrs Popovic, it has been 15 minutes. I'd use the rest of my time. Therefore, I do not see why we should restrict the citizens in their right to immediately decide on court proceedings by shortening the whole process that awaits them unless there is a favourable solution to this extrajudicial procedure. Unfortunately, our court proceedings last and continue, and these 90 days are too long for certain mandatory insurance rights to be exercised. Otherwise, I'd like to draw your attention to the intrinsic damage in the event that a person who has suffered immaterial damage dies during court proceedings, does not welcome a judicial decision on the determined amount of damage, heirs cannot inherit that possible damage. Therefore, it is just a delay in the whole damages procedure and it can happen that whoever has the right to do so simply does not welcome it, and neither does his successors. Therefore, I do not see why it has approached this way of resolving access to the court for damages, unless (that is a problem) insurance companies have and how it has had an impact on the creation of this legislative proposal. I would return to Article 26 of the legislative proposal, because I believe that it is common practice for us to leave many legislative solutions for which the Parliament is responsible to the government, or to the executive body, to be easily left to it. I believe that, if we have a legislative body, if we have a parliament in which legislative proposals are being discussed, in which MPs can make their observations and have the right to submit amendments to certain legislative solutions, it is much more comprehensive, more transparent and much better way to establish legal solutions and define the law. If we leave a little bit to the government, or to the executive authority, to supplement the law, we are in fact leaving legislative action to the executive authority, and it is not good for this society either, nor for this state, and it is not good for this Parliament either. Therefore, we should insist that when the laws are written, given in the procedure in the Assembly, they are clear, unequivocal, that these solutions that the laws contain provide clear answers and that they create as little confusion and as little dilemmas as possible about the application of legal solutions. Unfortunately, laws that are not defined in this sense are often inapplicable, so for this reason we have many laws that we have passed that we do not apply, even though we have also called these laws European laws. Therefore, this law, which will and will be in circulation because it regulates very important life problems, will not be able in every segment and at any moment to respond to the dilemmas which will challenge its legal solutions. The courts will often be unable to comply with the provisions of the law, because they will not have clear instructions; instructions will not come out of clear and concrete legal provisions, or legal members, and all this will again be left to the interpretations of the executive authority. When we put these laws into practice, why don't those laws, which are written by professionals, really construct and suggest that they be both lifelike and real and applicable? Therefore, this law has serious failures and vague provisions, which will most likely have to be changed within a very soon period of time. Normally, it will all be prolonged because many members, as far as their application is concerned, are also prolonged; it may not act as illogically as certain legal solutions are clear, but for now, when individual members of this law are analysed, and how it is apparent that everything is not so precise and clear as this kind of law should be determined.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23235	Thank you. Mr. Vladan Batic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23236	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this bill represents some small shift, but not enough, and the whole text is quite disputable. Here's the shift, and here's what's questionable. It is a good thing that the guarantee fund, unlike some earlier time, allows the compensation to be realised for those citizens who were insured by insurance companies that went bankrupt. That way, the guarantee fund appears as a subsidiary defendant or a subsidiary debtor, and that's good. However, it seems to me that there is a certain legal gap in situations where a litigation procedure has been initiated, is not legally completed, the insurance company is being sued, a procedure for the liquidation and bankruptcy of that insurance company is being initiated, everything is being interrupted and then it turns out that everything must be brought back to Jovo. Why is it not regulated by law that the guarantee fund immediately enters the case as a legal follower of an insurance company that goes into bankruptcy? Even such a situation may occur that the practical case is over; it follows only to make a written correction of the verdict, and then it happens with the insurance company, that it proceeds through bankruptcy. How long does the insurance company have to wait for the bankruptcy proceedings to be closed and then sue the guarantee fund again? That doesn't make sense. One more thing, it is an incredible manner of the existing government, and in this case the legislator, that certain provisions of the bill, i.e. the whole law, come into force in a few years. We had a senseless chamber law, which is due to come into force in 2013, to satisfy Dinkic, to be the "major of chambers", at least the virtual boss, because on January 1, 2013, no one will remember that there was a Mladjan Dinkic on the political scene in Serbia. Certain provisions of this law come into force when Serbia enters the EU, as a principle of "not a smoother donkey to green grass". It's legal uncertainty, it's something that's incompatible with the essence of the legal regulation of certain matter. It must regulate social relations now, at this point, as they are today, and not – it appears to you what they will be. It doesn't exist anywhere in the legal system. Give me one law of a European country that regulates this matter, where certain provisions will come in who knows when. We have heard that there is no way that Croatia, Iceland and Turkey can enter the EU by the end of 2011, and we are, unfortunately, much further from them when it comes to EU accession. My third reserve, I'm saying this as someone who's been a lawyer for 25 years, who's had a lot of these disputes, refers to the question of material and immaterial damage, the criteria for determining material and immaterial damage. They'll be determined by the government. By what principle? Or what kind of meatball? Then the government changes and then the new government redefines the criteria for determining material and immaterial damage. In particular, this matter of determining the amount of immaterial damage is very fluid, tanan and sophisticated, and it is absolutely not to be done by the Government according to any idea, according to some of its criteria, such or such. Those are my reserves. So there's a shift, but generally, this is not a good enough proposal for me as a practitioner in this matter to vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23237	Thank you. The People's MP Milorad Krstin submitted to the 80th Amendment. Do you want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23238	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on the proposal for a mandatory traffic insurance law, I have submitted an amendment to delete in Article 80(4). The explanation is: The SRS believes that in the current situation, the general economic crisis is the establishment of another state body such as the guarantee fund is a non-road, cost-effective move by the Serbian government. Madam Minister, I would suggest that you set up a fund like this, but a fund for the fallen Serbian agrarian. I can see you're not comfortable, but you're sitting in government. For the sake of the public, for the sake of couples and peasants, confirmed from two sources – barley will not be more expensive than eight dinars, along with VAT. Last year, 2008, it was 14.5 dinars. Eighty percent is now cheaper your product, gentlemen of the pair. The wheat last year was 15.75 to 16, now it's 10 dinars and it won't be more expensive. I told you that according to the calculations of the Vojvodina Association Group, which sent a letter to the SRS this morning, the price for wheat should be 17.65 dinars. According to this, the farmer, the wheat pair, loses about 12,000 dinars per hectare. Therefore, do not increase the administration and again in the pocket of Serbian citizens, do not create some new guarantee funds with directors who will have a salary of 200,000 dinars, but be sure to buy at least 200,000 tonnes of wheat stocks, so that the market and peasants are stabilised, as much as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23239	National MP Tomislav Ljubenovic submitted to the 80th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Vesna Maric submitted to the title above Article 81 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Mrs. Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23240	Honored citizens of Serbia, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS, and on the basis of Article 147. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I have submitted an amendment to Article 81. Proposal for a mandatory traffic insurance law, which I provided for the title above article 81 to be deleted. In relation to the existing legal solution, the draft law establishes a guarantee fund as a special legal person, in accordance with Article 1. The second EU manual, and the authorities of the guarantee fund are the Management Board and the Director. The Serbian Radical Party believes that the formation of a new state body is not justified and that in times of economic crisis, the state administration should not be increased and additional pressure on the pockets of Serbian citizens. We are principled against the formation of institutions (associations, funds, commissions, etc.) which will be financed from the budget of the Republic of Serbia, whose funding will fall on the overburdened back of Serbian citizens anyway. In addition, only after the unilateral implementation of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, according to the Republic government, the losses of our state and budget will amount to 267.000,000 euros. The incapacitated regime will take exactly that amount of money from the citizens of Serbia, which is not in the interest of the people, who are already suffering under the burden of the economic crisis. I would point to another nonsense, which is that you are adopting a law on the basis of which the guarantee fund will begin working two years after the entry into force of this law. In the overall economic situation, what to say about the unreasonable actions of the current government, except—no smaller state, no larger state administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23241	The 81st Amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Mr. Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23242	Ladies and gentlemen, I have proposed to delete Article 81, which provides that the guarantee fund has a board of directors and directors. The following Article 82 provides that the Management Board shall have five members, including the President, and shall make compensation for their work in the Guarantee Fund according to the same member of the Chair and members of the Management Board. Earlier, article 75 provides that the guarantee fund will, among other things, be financed by funds from the Republic of Serbia's budget. What does that mean? This means a new financial burden for increasingly poor citizens of Serbia. The set of countries they finance will be even more expensive. I suggest that these funds, in question several million dinars on an annual basis, focus on solving cases such as Stojan Stojkovic's case from the Great Plan. I have here one confirmation from the Company for Tool Production and Machines "Gosa" from Smederevska Palanka, which says: "It is confirmed that Stojković Stojan, worker, number 313, Gosa - The factory for production of tools and machines, has for the period of 11,12 months 2008 and the first month of 2009 personal income of 8,500 dinars, an average of 2,833 dinars per month. The certificate shall be issued for the purpose of exercising the right to treatment. “ When a man lives in a country where the government has 28 ministers, more than 28,000 employees, more than 200 deputy ministers and secretary of state, he has nothing left to do but take this certificate, go to treatment, and go to a psychiatrist to see if he sees or isn’t normal.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23243	The title above article 82 was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23244	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, all amendments by the Serbian Radical Party to the members of this bill from 73rd to 96th clearly state that the SRS is against the formation of such a guarantee fund. So neither am I with this amendment to Article 82 against the formation of a board of directors or any other body in that guarantee fund, but I am against the formation of a guarantee fund. The reason is very simple: the guarantee fund guarantees nothing but a new bureaucratic pyramid. Another cloned bureaucratic monster of an extraordinary appetite, which will paralyze Serbian citizens on their backs. You, gentlemen of the Serbian Government, make that clear in article 73 in the last paragraph; the last position says: "The funds for the establishment and start of the guarantee fund are provided in the budget of the Republic of Serbia. “ So when the door “sits” comes to your door, when you have“ blankets, ” that is, the domestic economic crisis, when you are forced to cut off both health care, and to enlighten and local self-government of the budget grant, you will be providing funds from that same budget for the formation of a guarantee fund and for the start of work. He says, Article 75: "The sources of the guarantee fund's resources are (1) contributions from insurance companies," so the insurance company will have to come from its budget, from the money collected from Serbian citizens paying insurance, part of the funds to the guarantee fund, "2) the funds of the Republic of Serbia's budget," so not only for the first time, it will initial injection financially, but the parasite, as long as it exists or as long as there is a budget, depends on what sooner it will die, suck out of the money budget, "3) income from investment and other income from the guarantee fund", I am very interested in what other revenues the guarantee fund is, "4) other sources according to the law. “ What other sources are these that are not directly or indirectly from the back of the Serbian people? Furthermore, Article 74 states: “The guarantee fund is established to protect passengers in public traffic, ” and so on,“ using an unsecured or unknown means of transport... “ It’s just a matter of time before I go home. ” Ladies and gentlemen of the government, since you've already allowed... (President: Time. I'll finish my sentence, if you don't mind. (President: Your group no longer has time. I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23245	Mr. Chiquiriz Mirko.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23246	I think it's necessary, for the sake of the public, to say in two sentences the meaning of the creation of a guarantee fund society. Fishermen in medieval Italy often had shipwrecks, accidents, etc. during their fishing trip and during trade. Then, which would be like the Citizens' Association today, they agreed that some of the resources of the fish sales and trade were allocated to accidents that would be paid to the persons who experienced these accidents during those trips. It's the beginning of the insurance company. Today we've heard that, Malten, there are no accidents from unknown vehicles or unsecured vehicles. That's not true. If a man drives, say, at night, out of some urban environment, across a mountain and someone moves to his side of August, of course, to avoid a car accident, he will certainly land from the road and suffer damage. The contact was not reached with a vehicle that was coming into contact and misbehaved, and the maltenes are impossible to determine who caused the car accident. The foundation of a guarantee fund covers these very risks. What do you do in a situation where a motor vehicle moves at a speed of 100 kilometers per hour on an open road, with no witnesses, hits by foot? The tracks on the motor vehicle are almost gone, and even if there are witnesses, in the night conditions of traffic, they will say it was the white "South". How many of these cars are there in Serbia, and is it easy to find a perpetrator, or pest? The guarantee fund also covers these damages. Most of the stakes in the guarantee fund have so far been held by insurance companies. I had already said, until now, those who had done safe business, in accordance with the law, have paid their damages, paid the damages for insurance that did not comply with the law and who often deliberately produced bankruptcy and liquidation, because they only took the insurance premium and did not pay the damage. With control, which is legally regulated, established by the National Bank of Serbia, at any time by the NBS and anyone who goes to the NBS site can check the insurance organisations' very easily. If someone wants something that existed between 1990 and 2000, which was called insurance hiducia, to promote it as today's insurance situation, they must be wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23247	Members of the 82nd Amendment were submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23248	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, if you analyze article 82, you will see that the board of directors of the guarantee fund is fully in the hands of the government. Namely, the government appoints and relieves the president and members of the board of directors. When you look further, you see that the president and members of the trust fund management board are named on the proposal of the relevant state bodies of the Government, the National Bank, then on the proposal of the insurance association and then you have an interesting provision – that the president and members of the board of directors are not employed in the guarantee fund, but that, on the other hand, they make compensation for their work in the guarantee fund. Unfortunately, we in the Republic of Serbia have had very negative experience with profits in various boards of directors. As you know, in the fall of last year, great dust was raised about it. Little has been done specifically to resolve this issue. The possibility is now being reopened that the president and members of the trust fund's board of directors will have extremely high incomes. It is realistic to assume that these receipts will indeed be extremely high, given the fact that it is an area of insurance, where there is a lot of money. On behalf of the SRS, I ask the question - if the board of directors is already in the hands of the Government, then why is the bill not prescribed that the president and members of the board of directors will be the people who are in the state apparatus? They are already receiving salaries based on the fact that ministers, state secretaries, ministerial assistants, etc., and if there is already a guarantee fund of a minority state body, then the question arises why, if it is already a state body, did you not appoint in that state body people who are now civil servants? Then the people who work in that guarantee fund would be completely deprived of any compensation for their work, because they already receive wages as civil servants, or government officials. This way, you've formed a board of trust funds; it's in the hands of the government, but there will be people who are not civil servants and are not government officials, and it can be realistically assumed that they will collect huge revenues in the name of membership on the board of directors.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23249	It's been two minutes. Thank you. Member of the 82nd amendment was submitted by Ambassador Sladjan Mijaljevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Myalevich.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23250	Dear fellow Members, I have submitted an amendment to Article 82(2) to delete point 1). We have submitted a typical explanation, which embellishes the government and the minister, which reads: "The Serbian Radical Party believes that in the current situation, the general economic crisis is the establishment of another state body such as the guarantee fund is a non-road, cost-effective move by the Serbian government. “ Madam Minister, as you said yesterday, our arguments are funny to you, perhaps because they are typical, but this is how we try to help you with the large number of repetitions of certain our views to understand what we want to say as easily as possible. Indeed, the complete teams that come here to the Government Assembly are incredibly smiling and funny, as if they had come to some fun park, and we don't think it's funny for Serbian citizens either. Our attitude is principled and is based on at least two reasons why we are against funds and agencies. The first reason is that in this economic situation we must in no way create new jobs that are financed from the budget. Another reason is the conceptual nature, as regards the organisation of the executive authority. Your concept is -- to form as many agencies and guarantee funds as possible, and the government for itself, or its ministries, creates a situation, an environment where you put the government at the level of the citizens' association, so ministers say "we will help," "we will help where we can", and so on. Are you a government or a humanitarian organization? Do you need to share help or create an ambience to work and earn and spend as little as possible? It may be a funny situation for you that you have brought Serbia into, but I can tell you the feelings of most Serbian citizens – they are not laughing, but they have fallen dark to their eyes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23251	Member of the 82nd amendment was submitted by MP Marko Milenkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 82 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vlad Milojkovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Milojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23252	Ladies and gentlemen, I have submitted an amendment to Article 82(2). The proposal for a mandatory traffic insurance law is deleted. We in the SRS believe that in the current situation of the global economic crisis, the establishment of another state body such as the guarantee fund is another reckless and wasteful move by the government. The government establishes this member of the law a guarantee fund and such a guarantee fund has a board of directors that counts five members. Members are elected for four years, with the right to be re-elected. The president and members are not members of the trust fund staff. All this says that this fund, as well as other agencies and funds, will serve to provide party personnel, as compensation for this work will be received by members and chairman of the board of directors in a guarantee fund. The government did not accept this amendment, with a reason that the article 82 regulates the composition and selection of the Management Board of the Guarantee Fund. The government has not given a single word of reason why it introduces another fund. Ladies and gentlemen, the reason for the introduction of another fund is probably clear to everyone, which is the material care of another party colleague or relative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23253	National MP Dejan Mirovic submitted the amendment to article 82. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Mirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23254	Ladies and gentlemen, the amendment has been submitted to article 82. It's a bill of law. The purpose of this amendment, as well as our previous amendments, is to point to a real situation in the Republic of Serbia. In this context, we do not want to compete here in saying phrases about the East and the West, EU membership and at the same time the preservation of Kosovo and Metohija in the composition of the Republic of Serbia, because it is more than clear that this is an unreal goal, we are already pointing to a context in which this guarantee fund and the board of directors, which is regulated by Article 82, is established. So we don't think it's a good idea to finance a guarantee fund from the budget, because it's not appropriate at this point. In this sense, it is known that the Republic of Serbia's budget has huge losses due to the unilateral implementation of the Transition Agreement with the EU, and the tax revenues of the Republic of Serbia are falling, while, absurdly, the revenues of the private company Delta, which deals with insurance, are reaching three billion euros for this year. Also, funds from the Glorified IPA Fund are invested in the budget, not in development projects, which also shows the real state of the budget. At the same time, the concept of dominating Austrian capital on our financial market is incriminating in this area, although it is known that it is written by a well-known insurance expert, Prof. Predrag Sulejic, that Austria's insurance houses and banks have just caused a major financial crisis in the first Yugoslavia. In the sense of this legislative proposal, they are completely uncritically analysed so-called. Brussels integration and in this area, although, as probably noted by the distinguished Mrs Dragutinovic, one of our biggest experts in international finance, Dr Predrag Jovanovic-Gavrilovic, of the Faculty of Economics in Belgrade, warned in 2007, as early as I quote, "that financial houses that are actually looking for jobs that involve too much risk in modern business." I think that on the question of a guarantee fund, this definition should be taken into account, because the very word "security" in various languages in its own etemological sense means security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23255	Gentlemen, allow me to give you two notices. First of all, tomorrow, on Thursday, June 18th at 10:00 p.m. in the central hall of the House of the National Assembly, a public vote will be held to support the devil's candidacy for seven world wonders of nature. The natural phenomenon of the Devil's Varosh is officially on the list of candidates for seven world wonders of nature. As the only representative of Serbia, the site of the Devil's Varos was placed under the protection of the state in 1959, and since 1995, the government of the Republic of Serbia has declared it a natural good of exceptional importance, i.e. a monument of nature. The importance this election has for Serbia's promotion is great, and the position of the Devil in the category of seven world wonders of nature would have far-reaching effects for the future. I call on all MPs to join the campaign, to support this significant activity by giving their own voice in the House of National Assembly's hall, and thus to help with our authority to give Serbia one of the seven wonders of the world. That's one notice. Secondly, you have also been given the parliamentary groups, but another reminder: a public debate will be held in the National Assembly on topics of importance for the draft law on the National Assembly and the draft Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The debate will take place on 18 and 19 June 2009, starting at 9.00 p.m., in the small hall of the House of the National Assembly, the Square of Nikola Pasic, so please take part. Thank you. We're continuing our work. National MP Goran Mihajlovic submitted the amendment to article 82. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 82 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ognjen Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 82 of the amendment was submitted by MP Jorgovanka Tabakovic, who wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23256	Article 82 defines the composition and selection of the Management Board. Parliament Club Forward Serbia, the SNS proposed by its amendment to add a new position on 6th -- a monthly fee for working on the board of directors is fixed once a year and cannot be higher than the monthly average personal income achieved on the territory of the Republic of Serbia in the year preceding the year for which the fee is determined and the compensation for the president can be increased to 50% and for the other members increased to 30%. We felt that it was necessary to legally restrict the payment of compensation to board members, not only in this law, but in all laws where the Government has any kind of ownership or participation in membership on boards, not only where it has as a state, directly from a republican level, but also as a local self-government. That we were right and that what is stated in Article should have been carried out consistently. 73, 75 and 80 speak the following three positions that I will read to you: Article 73 defines that funds for the establishment and start of a guarantee fund are currently provided by the Republic of Serbia. This is the right that has been derived from this, to limit the amount of compensation to board members. Furthermore, Article 75 says the sources of funding for the work of the guarantee fund, under point 2), are the funds of the Republic of Serbia's budget. I'm glad you adopted my colleague Zoran Babic's amendment that these funds are the source of funds for the work of the fund only in the first year, because he later provides from other funds, such as. contributions from the insurance company, funds for its work. In Article 80, last position, it is defined to be for earnings, fees and other remuneration of employees... (President: You have another minute from group time. You want to use it? )......................................................................................................... The guarantee fund shall apply the rules on earnings, fees and other public service revenue. It should have been heard and adopted this amendment, because it is just consistently implementing the legal solutions set out in Articles 73, 75 and 80 and talking about the responsible state, which takes care of the level of compensation of all those bodies it establishes and for which it has responsibility in its work.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23257	Thank you. The title above article 84 was submitted by MP Bojan Mladenovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 84 of the amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23258	Article 84(1) is deleted. The guarantee fund with all the board of directors and directors – here is another way to increase the pre-greet administration anyway. With the insurance regulations and their consistent application, we really wouldn't need this. I'd like to point out one more thing here. Our reformers are now changing the motive of their songs. Do you remember just a few years ago, eight or nine years ago, not so long ago, saying that in three or four years we would live in a country of prosperity, that life would be boring in that country, that we would live and work in a Swedish model. We are now told that we are going through a difficult period of free market, that by entering the EU, the West is going to reduce this period significantly, but that we also need to reconcile with a large number of negative processes, which are unemployment, recession, inflation, division of rich and poor, etc. Now someone's dictating us and setting up some guarantee fund. All of what you're doing is you're filtering us through some statistic, hairing everything, from the growth of gross social product, the cost of living, the rate of dinars, inflation, now the guarantee fund. That statistic of yours reminds the most of what the great Salvador Dali said about that same statistic. She, she says, resembles a swimsuit bikini; what shows a man seems suggestive, but yet the most important thing is hidden. That's your statistic, and as far as the people are concerned, he knows best. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23259	Members of the 84th Amendment were submitted by MP Milan M. Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23260	Dear People's MPs, respected citizens, in front of the SRS, I submit an amendment to the proposal for a mandatory traffic insurance law. The amendment applies to Article 84(2) and is deleted. What's the term? "The Director of the Guarantee Fund shall be appointed for a period of four years and may be re-appointed. "The Serbian Radical Party believes that in the current situation, the general economic crisis is the establishment of another organ such as the guarantee fund is irrational. Each law proposed by the government contains a proposal to introduce new institutions on the burden of budgets. These are the costs of Serbian citizens. I'm going to list some of the institutions that are proposed in this set of laws that are before us today. These are: Competition Protection Commission, Commission appointed by the Commission, Commission on State Aid Control, National Council on Regional Development, National Agency for Regional Development, Regional Development Council, Regional Development Agency, Regional Association, and not to mention services to be organised by the municipal police. These institutions will, in experience, be filled from party lines, according to party patterns. So it will be with a guarantee fund, which has five members: two proposed by the Ministry of Finance, one National Bank, two associations of insurance companies, and appointed and resolved by the government. That's why I suggested erasing this member. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23261	The National MP of Pai Momchilov submitted to the 84th Amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 84 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Popovic, who wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23262	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 84, which requires that paragraph 4 be deleted: "The Director of the Guarantee Fund shall also carry out other tasks from the jurisdiction of the Guarantee Fund, if this law does not specify that the Management Board is responsible for these tasks. “ In the light of this law, it states, among other things,: “The formation of organs and bodies whose activity is aimed at protecting damaged persons and in order to create appropriate institutes and information systems that will allow greater protection and faster exercise of the rights of a person entitled to compensation by means of a means of transport. “ This reasoning justifies the formation of another government body to be financed from the coat of arms of this people, which is a guarantee fund and its institutions (director, chairman of the board of directors and board of directors), all according to the instructions of the EU and for insurance against self-responsibility. We in the existing regulations have an institution called the Insurance Society, so we don't need another similar institution. So I suggest you accept this amendment. Otherwise, the state budget will be burdened with new multibillion-dollar salaries and fees for newly admitted officials. The bill shows that these will require at least between five and seven million dinars.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23263	The National MP Gordana Paunovic-Milosavljevic submitted the title above article 85th. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 85th amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23264	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, you are now pedantically keeping track of how many amendments the SRS MPs submit with the proposal to delete the guarantee fund; when the debate is over, you will have a little cynical reference to it, but I know that you are intimately agreeing with all these amendments submitted by the Serbian Radical Party, because you yourself have seen that this law of good idea is transformed into something that is not like anything. For what? Because of the guarantee fund, we can't even assume how many people you intend to hire. Let's put that aside, 'cause we all have a desire to get a job. But you're going to waste money through that guarantee fund. The more institutions the funds from the Republic of Serbia's budget will go to, the harder it will be to control. Mr. Chikiriz, I welcome the idea of medieval Italian fishermen, who wanted to provide themselves in the event of unforeseen situations. That would be fine with us in the first two cases you have mentioned from practice – and there are colleagues in the SRS who spent some time as lawyers and have just worked on these cases – that's good, but there is also that third case, where you say, with insurance companies that are running bankruptcy, where the funds for damaged persons should be compensated. I can't imagine how many insurance companies will be, since we know under whose control they are, which occasionally, when enough funds are raised in the guarantee fund, will consciously come into a position to launch bankruptcy proceedings over them to get as many undeserved funds as possible. The best example was illustrated by Mr Krasic when he said how much money is collected on an annual basis on the basis of insurance premiums and how much is paid. What about that difference? Do we, in today's conditions, have to make enormously high profits, on the one hand, for resourceful... It does not slow the SRS to make good and profit, but we are trying to place ourselves as guardians of the people's money, guardians of what all citizens of Serbia single out, and that is why some undeserved, through the government and... Mr. Chikiriz, who else believes in the government of Mirko Cvetkovic? I am sure that Mrs Diana Dragutinovic will be one of the first to resign as minister, because many things are going through that she disagrees with. I don't want to challenge her personal qualifications, but her capacity, because, remember, she was saying, she was making public statements...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23265	Time. Member of the 85th Amendment was submitted by MP Dušanka Plecevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23266	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I propose, by amendment, that Article 85(2) be deleted. This member shall discuss the conditions for the appointment of the President and members of the Management Board and the Director of the Guarantee Fund. The establishment of that fund, the employment of those officials, other officials and compulsory secretaries will especially delight those troubled citizens of Serbia who naively believed that you would exercise power in their interest, and who today have no business, do not know how to survive tomorrow, how to ask you not to rob them of such blasphemous distractions anymore, as if we live in a land of abundance and prosperity. You know very well that citizens, cut up like this, will swallow this humiliation, especially if for days across all the media in prime time, you will convince them that it is an investment in their future, which is about to begin. Even if, according to a tried-out recipe, a journalist, afraid of the latest war crimes charges, frightened himself, intimidates the viewers, the matter will soon lie down and the staff of the "yellow company" can take their seats on the people's mangers. By who knows which time we warn you to look around and remember that you are here for the citizens of Serbia, not for the citizens of the EU.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23267	Member of the 85th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 85th Amendment was submitted by MP Dobrislav Prelic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Flea.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23268	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the position of the Serbian Radical Party is well known when it comes to establishing new funds, agencies, etc., so it is certainly logical to continue and my amendment, i.e. the proposal to delete in Article 85(5). Given that you will probably have a majority of 126, that you will adopt this law and that you will establish this fund, Mr. Todorovic proposed to you last night some of your experts to join the board, such as Bozidar Djelic, Mladjan Dinkic, Bojan Krist, and I would suggest that Mrs. Komic enter this committee, as she is an expert on the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, so she may have an impact on making the committee more efficient. You have in government, besides experts, Mrs Dragutinovic, and "universals" – how you form another government, just move from chair to chair; the only thing they know is to ruin what they should do. You had Mr. Milosavljevic, who was Minister of Agriculture. He continued to destroy agriculture after Mrs. Dulic, and then took over the store, signed to import milk powder. He directly killed our farmers and cattlemen. There are us dealing with agriculture and livestock, Mrs Dragutinović. We're in cattle business, we didn't eat bull talk, so it's much smarter for you to make an urgent appointment for the Agriculture Committee, and for you to seriously consider the situation in agriculture at the government's session, because this is more than...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23269	Time, thank you. Member of the 85th Amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23270	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have filed before the SRS the amendment and on this article 85; my colleagues have already made their comments. As far as this article is concerned, 85, I will be in short lines, as long as it allows me, to give my judgment on this amendment, or on this whole article. "For the president and member of the Management Board, i.e. the Director of the Guarantee Fund may be appointed a person who: 1) has citizenship of the Republic of Serbia; 2) has a higher education; 3) is a recognised expert in the field of insurance, law or economy... “ It’s just a matter of time before I go home. ” We suggest that this third position be deleted for known reasons. If someone is now going to comment further, there will be some comments that will follow in a later commentary. The government says - the amendment is not accepted because conditions for the appointment of the president and members of the Management Board and the Director are being arranged. Your bill of law is a kind of economic pleonism in a series of your laws. The authorities of the guarantee fund are the board of directors and directors. It's regulated by the statute of consent given by the government. When I think of all these famous experts, and it is about attitude 3 that we propose to delete, which led us to today's situation, these are, for example: Miroljub Labus, Mladjan Dinkić, Bozidar Djelic, Zoran Zivkovic... You know what happened to Miroljub Labus, what happened. Mladjan Dinkic, to say the point is to recognise an expert in all the governments so far, and he's had a lot of comments and we've given our judgment on that. Haven't you had enough...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23271	Thank you. The title above article 86 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marina Ragush. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 86 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Ms. Verica Radet. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. The word is "Veriza Radeta".
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23272	Today, Madam Minister, we're talking about a mandatory traffic insurance law. As a lawyer, I immediately conclude from this title that we will no longer have any problems in the field of traffic insurance, but you have no instrument of the state that would lead to the fact that we no longer have unsecured vehicles. This guarantee fund of yours is certainly not that instrument, and it cannot be that instrument, because this guarantee fund is another budget spender, and not only for the financing of members of that fund, the board of directors, directors, etc., but from the budget of the Republic of Serbia, you provide for the allocation of certain funds that this fund will spend to protect public traffic participants from, among other things, unsecured vehicles. Again, what I was saying about half an hour or an hour ago, about -- you didn't predict that the authorities that are competent under other laws were in control of this area, but you're inventing some new bodies, organizations, I don't know what you'd call it, and here in the light of this law, you're telling us that, apart from the funds set out in Article 83(4) that need to be provided within two years of the entry into force of this law, to implement this law from the Serbian budget, there is no need to provide additional resources. Mrs Dragutinović, this is not true.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23273	Thank you, Mrs. Radeta. Milovan Radovanovic submitted to the 86th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Radovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23274	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs Dragutinovic, you should know that we SRS MPs are in no way against the economic protection of passengers in public transport and third-party damaged persons in cases where the damage is caused by the use of unsecured or unknown means of transport, as well as the liability of an insurance company against which bankruptcy proceedings have been initiated. We are for the economic protection of these persons, however, there have been a lot of words here by the MPs of the SRS why we are against the introduction of a guarantee fund as another state body, in addition to all these powerful agencies, bureaus, commissions with the Government of the Republic of Serbia, with certain ministries, which are already burdening a restrictive budget. Recently, you have admitted and shown that there is really no money in the budget by changing and supplementing, i.e. by reducing funds in the budget. If we consider Article 75, that the funds for the guarantee fund are provided, among other things, from the funds of the Republic of Serbia's budget and if only two years from now this guarantee fund will start operating, then it gives us the right when we explain that in this situation the economic crisis in Serbia is not justified that there is a guarantee fund. The government in its response which did not accept the amendment to Article 86 says the amendment is not accepted because it is a conflict of interest in the guarantee fund. We know that. We know it's being resolved here and eliminated by the existence of a conflict of interest, but we're against the existence of a guarantee fund at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23275	The title above article 87 was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Saviæ.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23276	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 87. Proposal for a mandatory traffic insurance law by deleting the title above this article. And this article 87 is related to the Guarantee Fund, by treating surplus, or deficit, or vice versa, anyway, revenue over expenditure. I want to remind you that the budget is the main source of the guarantee fund financing. Of course, there are other sources, but the budget of the Republic of Serbia is the main source of the funding. The law states that any surpluses will be defined and where any deficits will be compensated, however, I am convinced that there is nothing in the law. Since the budget is the main source of funding, I ask the present Mrs Dragutinovic, will the surplus in the guarantee fund be returned to the Republic of Serbia's budget? I'm not sure, but I'm sure that the deficit, when it comes to it, and the much greater likelihood of a lack of excess will be compensated from the Republic of Serbia's budget, again at the expense of Serbian citizens. Therefore, I have no doubt that this law will have a foothold in reality and therefore this law will pass as everyone passes, many of the laws proposed and passed by by this government will remain a dead letter on paper.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23277	Member of the 87th Amendment was submitted by MP Suleiman Spaho. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Mr. Spaho, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23278	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam President, you have invited us to attend tomorrow at 9.30 p.m. an initiative to accept an old town for a world miracle, and I think another world miracle exists, and that's your government, which has existed in this space for a long time. For everything you've done to Serbian citizens, I think it's an even bigger world miracle than this, than an old townie, but let's move on to the amendment. I have submitted an amendment to the proposal for a mandatory traffic insurance law to delete in Article 87(1). The guarantee fund is difficult to achieve more revenue than expenditure, as it assumes damages from unregistered vehicles and damages where mandatory insurance contracts are not made up. The Serbian Radical Party believes that under the conditions of the economic and financial crisis that is happening to us, with the huge indifference of the economy, the difficult conditions of business, the deficit of the budget, the deficit in the work of the PIO, are unacceptable to establish new associations, new institutions that are financed from state sources. In the light of the draft law, it is pointed out that this is necessary in order to raise the quality of the performance of compulsory insurance according to the standards that exist in developed market economies and because of the need for harmonisation...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23279	Thank you. National MP Dragan Stevanovic submitted the amendment to article 87.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23280	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, there was a noticeable reaction from you and your associates earlier when Mrs Popovic asked why the law was adopted by emergency procedure. You said the law wasn't in the emergency procedure, but it doesn't amnest you out of responsibility for the nonsense you've introduced into this law, which is that more than twenty members will be delayed, and that's not known at what time period. I will remind you that this law entered the procedure on May 15th, and we are already discussing the same debate today; the social housing law entered on July 18th last, which the government and most obviously have no intention of instructing the Assembly to consider and possible adoption. We can truly understand all nine reasons that oblige you to adopt this law, you who represent the government, or the congregation majority. We can't understand why the provisions of this law relating to the guarantee fund are being applied for two years. To be more insolent, some members of this law will apply, no less than 60 days from Serbia's entry into the EU. Can you tell us when it's gonna be? Or, it will apply after Serbia's entry into the WTO. The Commission, which monitors Serbia's progress in the context of its inclusion in the World Trade Organisation, found over 500 objections to this country in the context of this progress. In law, enter the provision that it will apply when it...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23281	Thank you, Mr. Stevanovic. The title above article 88 was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23282	Dear Members of the People, ladies and gentlemen, I have submitted an amendment to Article 88. Proposal for a mandatory traffic insurance law. As you can see so far, our goal is to prevent unnecessary increases in state administration and hyperproduction of state authorities and agencies. At this point, we find it unnecessary to create another state body, a guarantee fund, whose work is defined in Article 88, to which I have submitted the amendment. In Article 88's point of view, "The supervision of the management of the guarantee fund is carried out by the National Bank of Serbia. “ Ladies and gentlemen, all these months we have been able to make sure that the NBS does not carry out its duty under the law. Then how can anyone believe that they will successfully control the business of the guarantee fund? The role of the NBS is, among other things, to control the work of business banks. Regardless of the legal obligation, citizens who took loans from commercial banks could have noticed that their wars were the same in recent months or have been increased, although the reference interest rate fell by more than 50% since the end of last year. This means that business banks have started to take a racket from citizens and are illegally increasing the loan margin. The NBS had to react and prevent this kind of green banking, but it didn't. For these reasons, I invite you to accept my amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23283	Thank you. National MP Dragan Todorovic submitted to the 88th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 88 of the amendment was submitted by the MP Marina Toman. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23284	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS is proposing that Article 88 be deleted from Article 2. The amendment is a logical trace of the previous amendments that we are asking for to be deleted from the guarantee fund. We therefore propose to delete members of the law relating to his supervision. To repeat my colleagues' position – Serbia has a bulky state administration that would also pose a great burden for countries with much more developed economies. There are 28,000 employees in Serbia. Let me remind you, in 2000 it was about eight thousand. Today we are facing a large number of agencies, administrations, commissions. We're facing unnecessary, parallel state bodies. It is too much burden for taxpayers, for Serbia's budget, and not only in the context of the economic crisis. The position of the SRS is that the government must have more rational budgetary resources. Unreal spending is not desirable, not only in terms of economic crisis. However, if we reject the main argument as to why a guarantee fund should not be established, other problems remain, particularly inaccurately defined members of the law relating to the guarantee fund, which creates additional confusion. We believe that they can in no way adequately protect passengers and other damaged faces.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23285	The amendment was submitted by MP Milan Škrbic to article 88. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 88th Amendment was submitted by MP Ljubisa Petkovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23286	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 88(4) and suggested that it be deleted. I'd like to remind you that when I explain my amendment to article 75. The draft mandatory traffic insurance law laid down its position and position of the SRS parliamentary group. My remarks concerned the way in which the guarantee fund was financed, i.e. the way in which funds were provided for compensation for damaged persons by non-aware persons. In view of the way in which the guarantee fund is financed and the risk of uncontrollable spending of funds taken from citizens of Serbia in connection with this explanation, it was logical to submit an amendment to Article 88 of the proposed law. If I suggest, for example, Article 75 doesn't exist and is not introduced by this law, then it makes sense that the non-existent is not audited. I expect the Parliament to accept the proposed amendment in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23287	Thank you. The title above article 88 was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23288	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, through your active participation in the debate on this law and amendments to the SRS MPs, I've gotten the impression that you're not moving through Belgrade traffic at all. Besides using an official government vehicle, you don't participate in public transportation of the city's company or in private. I don't know who to discuss with or who to convince that this amendment is good with. Since you're not from that profession, let's talk about areas related to finance. My amendment refers to an annual account, which, in my opinion, makes no sense at all. If we take into account the fact that Article 89 of the text reads as follows: ‘The annual account for the previous year, with a report on the business and the report of the authorised auditor’, make sure that it is not Deloitte and Touche or Ecovesor, ‘the guarantee fund is submitted to the NBS and to the Ministry of Finance's tasks until 30 April of the current year’; if we do not know what means the guarantee fund has, or Article 119, which says that this law enters into force 90 days from the date of publication in the ‘Official Messenger’, we do not even know when it will be published; when we take into account the argument of the Government why it does not accept any amendments, and this is the answer that the establishment of a guarantee fund is foreseen after two years from the date of entry into force of the draft law, I ask – who, who, for the previous year, in the following year, if the law enters into force only two days after the entry into force of 11 years, the entry into force of entry into force? Financially, I don't know who's giving what, or any report, when we don't have the means for a guarantee fund at all. It's just proof of the metaphor, which my colleague Markovic said, that the guarantee fund doesn't guarantee anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23289	Thank you. The amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic to article 89. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Dragan Acimovic submitted the title above article 90th. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, Mr. Acimovic. Just re-apply.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23290	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have tabled an amendment to the mandatory traffic insurance bill: "The title above article 90 is deleted. “ Realistically, this mandatory traffic insurance law is unnecessary, because previous legal acts regulated mandatory traffic insurance, through an insurance company; the only problem was the implementation and operation of an insurance company. I'm sending a special remark from the SRS to the competent ministry. It is contained in the establishment and education of a guarantee fund, which represents another parallel state body, which, in such a difficult economic crisis, exclusively spends people's money and employs solely activists of the ruling parties to whom you have an obligation from previous parliamentary elections. If there are already insurance companies under the patronage of a particular ministry, what do we need another paraorgan, which will cost the state dearly? That's why I suggested that this article be deleted and my amendment adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23291	The 90th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Elena Christmas-Talian. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Article 91, the People's MP, Milorad Buh, submitted the amendment. Would you like a word, Mr. Buha? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23292	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable citizens of Serbia, I have submitted an amendment to the title above article 91. The bill of law and requested his expropriation. There are two reasons why I asked to delete: one is logical, the other is legal. First, the title says "The payment of the security amount, i.e. the compensation of the damage when the compulsory insurance contract is not concluded". Article 91 gives rise to a life obligation, which in practical life is possible for damage to occur without the contract being concluded. So there's no secure amount. This title should read as ‘The damages compensation when the compulsory insurance contract is not concluded’. The legal reason why you should not have installed such a title (not only a title, but also a provision of Article 91) stems from the already standardised legal rules that are in the legal life, which are the provisions of the Law on Liabilities, the Law on Mandatory Insurance and the Law on the Insurance of Assets and Persons, which define and regulate this area legally. There is no need for us to have several laws in our legal life, several legal provisions that regulate the same matter. This is a duplication of legal matter, extremely unnecessary, and therefore I suggest that this amendment be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23293	National MP Milan Veselinovic submitted to the 91st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 91 of the amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Vukicevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23294	On behalf of the SRS Parliamentary Group, I have suggested that Article 2 be deleted. Proposal for a mandatory traffic insurance law. It's about the cost of a secure sum, i.e. Compensation of damages when a mandatory insurance contract is not concluded. The second position, whose removal I requested by amendment, refers to the regress request, at the cost of the amount secured, i.e. compensation incurred by the owner of the motor vehicle, aircraft, boat or any other means of transport which has not concluded the compulsory insurance contract, for the amount of the compensation paid, the interest from the payment of the compensation and the costs of the proceedings. I consider this amendment to be a meaningful and logical trace of the view of the SRS on the proposed legal solution. The explanation of the draft law for not accepting amendments is that it allegedly refers to the application of the provisions on the right to payment of the secured sum, i.e. Compensation of damages when a mandatory insurance contract is not concluded. ... which is quite unquality and to a large extent is not clearly defined. The draft law, which was created as another obligation towards the EU, for this reason alone did not come to the understanding of opposition parties. I think the amendments are essential quality. For this reason, he did not come across the approval of opposition parties, especially the SRS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23295	Thank you. The title above article 92 was submitted by MP Jadranko Vukovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23296	Ladies and gentlemen, the amendment reads, "The title above article 92 is deleted." Prior to the explanation of this proposal, I will read Section 2 where the motion says: “In the event of damage caused by an unknown motor vehicle, the guarantee fund will compensate for the damage to things if a participant in the car accident compensated for the serious physical injury that required hospital treatment, with the participation of a damaged person in the damage of 10%... “ It’s just a matter of time before I go home. ” Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the question is, how many such cases will be and how will the guarantee fund provide funds for that purpose to pay for damaged persons? In practice, we have a lot of cases where perpetrators of the crimes that caused the damage escaped from the scene and the authorities of the prosecution are unable to detect the real perpetrator. Practice has shown that over 30% of the damage caused by undetected faces. So it's about huge funds that the guarantee fund will have to pay off in case the perpetrators are undetectable. The question arises, what is the incentive of a proponent to enter such a risk? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23297	Thank you. The amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Vukovic to Article 92. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Mr. Vukovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23298	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, based on article 147. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23299	Mr. Vukovic, I apologize, we've just been disfellowshipped from direct transmission. During the night, the transmission will be delayed. We're continuing our work. Here you go. Sign up again, so I can give you my word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23300	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of Parliament, honourable citizens, on the basis of Article 147. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I submit an amendment to the draft law on mandatory traffic insurance. With my amendment to Article 92(1), this position shall be deleted. The explanation of the SRS, which is mine, is that the SRS and I believe that, in the current situation, the general economic crisis is the establishment of another state body such as the guarantee fund is an unwitting and cost-effective move by the government. My amendment was rejected by reason of not accepting it because it refers to damages to the use of an unknown motor vehicle. With this article, or this point, which I will now quote, the legislator is obviously looking for space to find a way to get even more money out of the budget from the people, and I doubt those motives. This article reads: ‘The damage caused by the use of an unknown motor vehicle, aircraft and a boat shall be compensated to the extent that this law limits the obligations of the insurance company for the damage caused by the use of those means of transport on the day of the occurrence of the adverse event. “ It is clear to all of us that whoever is doing this job is seeking to pay as little money as possible to those who have suffered damage. Normally, by taking money from the budget this way, this fund tends to collect as much money as possible. This intention to pay only up to 10% obviously hides how the government will even more for its own purposes, and we know what it's used for, attracts as much money as possible. This amendment we have submitted is principled, and the argument is similar to that of the other amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23301	The amendment was submitted by MP Milan Knezevic to Article 92. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Mr. Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23302	In front of Parliament Club Forward Serbia, I have submitted an amendment to the proposal for a mandatory traffic insurance law, which refers to Article 92(2). The amendment foresees that the remaining part of the text is deleted in this second position following the word "healing". This remaining part of the text, I will read, read, reads: "with the participation of the damaged person in the damage of 10%, with this participation cannot amount to more than 500 euros in the dinar equivalent on the day of the harmful event". Practically, conditioning participation to compensate for damages requiring hospital treatment is one inappropriate move. I think the adoption of this amendment would make this article 92 much more appropriate. I will read this dry sentence in the government's reasoning when the amendment is rejected, which reads: "Amendment is not accepted because it refers to damages by using an unknown motor vehicle. “ This is an explanation for the five amendments that other colleagues have submitted to this article 92. This argument practically means nothing, no argument, no fact why the amendment was rejected. The adoption of this amendment would significantly improve this position and Article 92 of this Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23303	The amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Dimitrijevic to Article 92. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 92 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Duvnjak. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Branimir Djokic to the title above Article 93. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23304	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the President-in-Office, submitted an amendment to Article 93 on the proposal for a mandatory traffic insurance law. We ask that the title above that member be deleted. The reason is that the SRS believes that in the current situation, the general economic crisis is the establishment of another state body such as the guarantee fund is a non-road and cost-effective move by the Serbian government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23305	The 93rd amendment was submitted by MP Srboljub Zivanovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23306	Ladies and gentlemen, I have submitted an amendment in front of the SRS to Article 93, which reads: “The damage caused by the use of motor vehicles, aircrafts, boats or other means of transport, and the mandatory insurance contract has been concluded with the insurance company that is subject to bankruptcy proceedings, is being compensated from the funds of the guarantee fund. “ The government’s reply is that it does not accept this amendment, since it refers to the payment of the amount secured, or compensation from the insurance company that was subject to bankruptcy proceedings. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm afraid, since there is a great cohabitation between the mafia and the government, that this will lead to retroactive, that it will reactivate many of the unpaid damages of many insurance companies that have been reopened somehow suspiciously. As you can see, I'm afraid there's no such case as is present today: the crop has begun, the government is sitting in the cold and in the air-conditioned rooms, and the peasants are reaping and giving a ransom to the state. I think the law of nature is present, you know it well – when animals die in nature, then vultures come along, take what suits them, and then others come along again... Since 2000, there have been many such vultures, who have "defiled" the budget of the Republic of Serbia, who have "defiled" Serbia, who brought workers and peasants...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23307	Thank you. The 93rd amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Zivkov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Žutić to the title above Article 94. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 94 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23308	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 94, with a proposal to delete Section One. Article 94 refers to the obligations of the damaged person when applying for damages. To repeat, the guarantee fund is set up to compensate the economic damage of passengers, in cases where the damage is caused by the use of an unsecured or unknown means of transport. Since it is obvious that on our roads it will not be in any large number of cruises unsecured, this means unregistered and unknown vehicles, owned by Serbian citizens, this guarantee fund will now be intended to compensate victims and damaged by the implementation of the SOFA agreement, signed by the President of the Republic of Boris Tadic on 7 October 2006 with Condoleezza Rice on behalf of the United States, which will allow free transit and movement of NATO pact members in Serbia. So, on our roads, highways, local cruise routes, no regard for other traffic participants, NATO pact members, and perhaps even their drunken soldiers, and will not take care of pedestrians near schools, hospitals, etc. We have a lot of examples from the environment of how many American soldiers, or NATO troops, have caused traffic accidents involving both human casualties and major material damage. Remember, in 2003, they even managed to run over the Macedonian minister, who remained on the spot dead after driving US soldiers on the streets of Skopje. What is worst, the perpetrators of these serious crimes cannot be prosecuted before domestic courts, thanks to this SOFA agreement, and the damage will have to be compensated by the Republic of Serbia, so this guarantee fund is now in their favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23309	The amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic to Article 94. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Mr. Jeremic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23310	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, this 94th member of the Obligation Insurance Bill in Transport refers to the obligation of a damaged person to apply for damages. The amendment that I submitted on behalf of the SRS Group was requested to remove the second position of the mentioned member, a position relating to the fact that a damaged person is required to attach, with this claim for compensation, the relevant evidence that the damage caused by an unsecured means of transport, an unknown means of transport, or a means of transport provided by the insurance company under which the bankruptcy proceedings were initiated. The basic and essential objection and this part of the law refers to the establishment of another state body, a guarantee fund, in terms of the economic crisis, in a situation where the state is obviously relying on the aid of Western banks, Western creditors, although it is rather uncertain whether that money will ever be provided. The representatives of the Western banks have even admitted it. They say, for example, that loans under the anti-crisis programme, which we talked about earlier, should be approved with the currency clause, therefore according to the value of the euro, not the dinar. Simply, in terms of general indifference, it is unrealistic to expect banks to suddenly give such sums of money. It is clear that banks will have to borrow selectively, and those sectors that make profits. Of course, in this whole story, in this context, we find an absolutely unacceptable new way, that is, the type of budget spending as envisaged by the creation of a guarantee fund, which should sort of regulate certain provisions of the Transport Safety Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23311	National MP Natasa Jovanovic has submitted the title above the 95th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23312	We've come to the possibility that in a claim for damage damages the damaged prosecutor's guarantee fund. We Serbian radicals all the time in explaining our amendments asked for an actual guarantee fund to be abolished, because it was incorrectly defined how it would work. I have to go back to what Mr. Sreto Peric was talking about, and the chairman of the Finance Committee, our MP, Mr. Krasic. These are the funds that will be provided through premiums by insurance companies to fill the guarantee fund. I'll go back to the case I mentioned earlier, although this someone will probably follow up after midnight tonight, if he stays awake. This is the case of the insurance company Prizma from Topola, which did excellent business, without any delay in paying for the damages, and then, suddenly, by the will of the governors and the National Bank of Serbia, there was the liquidation of the insurance company, at the time the account was held by 139,000,000 dinars. Therefore, as counterpart Jojic said in the morning hours, I believe that, as his amendment is behind this, he will continue to warn the public that our courts are not effective, that we have a radical law on the executive procedure. The law on the enforcement procedure brought into this assembly and adopted in the Citizens' Council in 1999, when Mr. Jojic was minister of justice, was fully applicable and effective. You today have a situation that workers who have entered the dispute because they have been cheated under the privatisation and social programme, robbed, left on the street, can't make their executive rulings. Then the question arises – who are you even distracting by pointing him to a guarantee fund, or state, which is not responsible for anything? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23313	The 95th Amendment was submitted by Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23314	Ladies and gentlemen, compared to Article 95, certainly Miss Natasa Jovanovic pointed to these deadlines. The 90-day deadline was due to be reduced to 15 days, because it is an appropriate time limit. This is essential for citizens to be able to recover damages in good time. Under the applicable Implementing Procedure Act, the debt lobby is protected, and the debt lobby is a state and are insurance companies. That's why you've been suing the state for 33 years and the state won't pay any damage to citizens who have every right. Secondly, I would ask the question – what are we going to do in case Shiptar comes from the AP Kosovo and Metohija, causes car crash, damages and escapes? Who will pay for this damage, Eulex or local self-government, or territorial unit, Serbian AP Kosovo and Metohija? On the other hand, I think this law is full of blanks, full of misunderstandings. It is in practice causing chaos because it is now between the Law on Liabilities, Criminal Law and the Law on Prosecution and Executive Procedure. It's a mess. So, Madam President, you just announced that tomorrow at 10:00... Can I just ask you something, if you let me, I won't make a mistake, so you don't get me wrong? I understand earlier that tomorrow the government, or this House, will hold a session to promote our pearly town. I don't think this is an appropriate name – the Devil's Varosh, because someone will say, I won't, but someone can say, I can, in the end, rule the devil, I won't insult her, I suggest she be a devil's baroster. Madam President, I suggest that you draw attention to the government and those who suggest this, let them call it a Serbian pearl town. Because Serbia is not the devil, it was the only one Biden called, both her and the Serbs, that they were the devil's people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23315	There are cultural reasons and other reasons why the town is called the Devil. The 95th Amendment was submitted by MP Gojko Radic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Article 96 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radica Jocic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23316	I have submitted an amendment to the title above article 96, which reads: "The payment of the security amount, i.e. the compensation of a person who is not a Serbian citizen", and I have asked that this title be deleted. It is true, ladies and gentlemen, that foreign persons who are injured in Serbia's territory also have the right to pay the amounts secured, i.e. compensation for damages, but the fact that the SRS does not, in the opinion of the SRS, have to form a guarantee fund to ensure that this is regulated, because we already have an association which, by reason of the government, will continue to carry out the tasks of its work until the day of the entry into force of this bill. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to know whether those who support the adoption of this law can only answer one question – do the words "Serbian territory" mean Kosovo and Metohija? For the SRS, of course, it also implies the territory of our southern province, but I am not sure that today, 17 June 2009, includes all members of the ruling coalition and members of the government. If you think that countless times the phrase that Serbia will never recognise Kosovo can convince us that you really mean it, you're wrong. Why, then, does the foreign minister feel that there will be more and more of those who view the process on the side and who will conclude that an attempt to impose independence, where one side gets everything, and the other side nothing, is not a solution that guarantees long-term peace and stability in the Balkans? Does it suggest that a solution where both sides get something could guarantee long-term peace and stability in the Balkans? I can't even think about what this insinuation can apply to. So don't serve us the laws here just because you have to adopt them, even if you're not sure which territory they'll be able to apply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23317	The amendment was submitted by MP Ljubomir Kragovic to Article 96. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23318	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, based on article 147. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I have submitted an amendment to the draft law on mandatory traffic insurance. The amendment reads as follows: ‘Article 96 is deleted’. Article 96 refers to non-citizens of Serbia, and I will read it: "A person who is not a citizen of the Republic of Serbia, whose use of motor vehicles, aircrafts, boats or other means of transport in the cases referred to in Article 74(1) of this law is caused by damages, has the right to pay off the amounts secured, i.e. the right to compensation under the provisions of this law. “ I find it excessive that this is in the law, since a foreign citizen has his own insurance, which withdraws that insurance provision from the country of origin. On the other hand, the question arises whether such a provision is contained in laws in other EU countries, so that Serbian citizens in another country can also collect traffic insurance damage under a similar law? This formulation is rather vague, and I think this should be brought into line with some of the state agreements, not that those who are foreign citizens have the right to compensation, regardless of whether Serbian citizens have the same rights when they are in another country. I therefore believe that the Government should accept this amendment in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23319	Member of the 97th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic, who wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23320	Article 97 refers to commercial offences which can be committed by companies and other legal entities as owners of a means of transport. This amendment applies to point 2) of Article 1. The amendment requires a reduction, first of all, of the amount of fines for the economic offense. But more importantly, I think most of these dots are practically inapplicable, because they contain certain specifics such as "non-enabled", "old self", etc., something that is very problematic from the point of view of the description. In point 2) there is something I see for the first time in my life – that as a business offense, there is something that is in the transitional and final provisions. You can imagine what is in the transitional provisions – chapter "Transitional provisions that will apply until the accession of the European Union". I remember that in time, while we had sanctions, we passed laws, which we treated as modern, but there was always a chapter "Special provisions during the application of sanctions from the international community against the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia", and it was never in transitional and final provisions, but in special provisions. This is truly a world miracle that from the transitional provisions, Article 105, which refers to foreigners, foreign legal and physical persons, we are responsible for economic offenses. I really haven't had a chance to see this before, a bright mind like this. I need to draw your attention that this with two minutes of explanation really looks nothing like anything. Simply, the number of MPs present in the congregation shows that the political power and power of persuasion toward MPs is not in the National Assembly, but probably outside the National Assembly. Then you really ask the question...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23321	Thank you. The amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic to Article 97. Would you like a word, Mr. Arsic? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23322	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when it comes to Article 97 paragraph 1(2), I can say that this is the simplest racket of the legislator, which, by adopting this law, should become legal. What's this about? In Article 97(2), it will be punishable if, as the owner of the means of transport, it does not allow the driver of the means of transport to have an insurance policy or other evidence of the contract being concluded during use of the means of transport. Now, watch out, point 1) is that this same penalty for the owner of the motor vehicle, or means of transport if there is no policy, or if he has not concluded the insurance contract, and he has put the vehicle on the market, so it is not registered. You are completely equal to those who are absolutely illegally involved in traffic and vehicles that are perfectly legally and legally registered you punish because there is no policy. The explanation is, among other things, to report damage as soon as possible. Now I can say that whoever wrote it has no idea what insurance companies are or how the damages are going. You can't charge for damages from another insurance company unless you have a record of the MUP, the traffic police. An integral part of the traffic police record is both the number of policies and which the insurance company represents which participants in the traffic. Since we don't live at the time of the Ned Lud Industrial Revolution, but in the 21st century, gentlemen of the Ministry of the Interior, the Department of Traffic Police can deliver you within three minutes, so this provision is completely insane. I don't know what else to call it, but an absolutely state racket to ensure, apparently, a salary or compensation for the work of the board of directors of the guarantee fund... (President: Time. I've got another minute from the MP's group. (President: Exactly that minute.) I don’t see what else is involved, but only to fill the budget, to find something, because there are no harmful consequences. The vehicle is registered, the vehicle cannot be registered if there is no mandatory autosecuring contract and therefore such a penalty cannot be placed in the same rank as when it comes to the vehicle involved in the traffic, and there is no registration at all, no insurance policy concluded.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23323	The amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Krstin. Do you want a word? Here you go, sir.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23324	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have tabled an amendment to the mandatory traffic insurance bill and in Article 97(2) of the criminal provisions, in fact, those are fines, I have replaced your proposal "from 20,000 to 200,000 dinars" with the words "10,000 to 100,000 dinars", because I believe that in the current situation, the overall economic crisis is more appropriate. Here, I would also read your argument of this law, especially in relation to the provisions of Articles 97 to 101, which states: “The bill introduces a procedure of responsibility for non-compliance with the prescribed obligations, both for companies and citizens of users of mandatory insurance services in traffic and for insurance companies. In this respect, legal persons and responsible persons shall be liable for commercial offences within the limits of the Commercial Crimes Act. For entrepreneurs and natural persons, appropriate violations are prescribed. “ Madam Minister, I would like to ask you, it says here that for the economic offense of Article 1 this member will be punished and the responsible person in a company or in another legal person by a fine that you have prescribed, and I am asking that it be less. However, in Article 97(2), it says – if, as the owner of the means of transport, it does not allow the driver of the means of transport to have an insurance policy or other evidence of a concluded insurance contract, and as the owner of the motor vehicle and the European accident report. I ask you well-intentioned – what kind of document is this, specifically, European traffic accident report? I'd like you to explain to me, because I'm sure most of the MPs (which are a little bit in this room) there's something not clear here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23325	The amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Ljubenovic to Article 98. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 98 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Maric. Would you like a word, Mrs. Maric? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23326	Dear citizens of Serbia, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 98. The draft mandatory traffic insurance law, which I provided for in Article 98(2) to replace "from 100,000 to 200,000 dinars" with the words "from 50,000 to 100,000 dinars". The government has not accepted the amendment, with the reason that the criminal provision and its height are intended to prevent a commercial offence by the responsible person in the association. The aim of this amendment is to point to the public the serious consequences of the economic crisis on the lives of Serbian citizens. The word is the economic crisis the regime has caused itself. The Republic government believes that by increasing the financial penalties in all laws where they are intended to fill the gaps in the budget it itself has made, underlining the general interest of tycoon such as Miroslav Miskovic, Milan Bek, Dragan Gilas, etc. What sources are these people funded from? Where do they get the one-on-one capital they own? Dragan Gilas built a facility in the middle of Belgrade, the Big Brother's house, under the pretext of building a child's accommodation facility. It pays only 416.6 euros a month for 2,000 square meters of that space. Miskovic and Beku were sold to Luke Belgrade's land, 220 hectares, for 50m euros, although its market value is 2 and a half billion euros. Some entities spend ten times more money than the largest parties financed from the budget above their party. Where did they get that money? The tycoons are funding them. Rightly those who buy state property at triple the price. Ladies and gentlemen, if anyone wants to fill the budget of the Republic of Serbia, let them start doing what Russian Federation Prime Minister Vladimir Putin does. There are oligarchs and tycoons in front of Putin. It's the other way around in Serbia. As long as it does, the citizens will live in growing poverty, because the tycoons will, with the help of the regime...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23327	Time. Thank you. The 99th Amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Dusan Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23328	Ladies and gentlemen, I have suggested that the amount of fines from 100,000 to 500,000 dinars be reduced to between 150,000 and 200,000 dinars, because we in the SRS consider the amount of fines to be excessive. On the one hand, the people are being given the money of the pardon, and on the other hand, the money is being financed by the creation of new jobs in the state administration. Yesterday, I presented the information that the ruling parties have employed ten people, their party activists, in the Serbian government, from 5 October 2000 to today. Meanwhile, the SRS Parliament Club is being reported by citizens who are asking if this is possible. Unfortunately, it's possible. The data is amazing, but true. Here's the math: In 2000, 8,000 people were employed in the government in 2008, 28.0000. If you multiply eight years by 365 days, you get 2,920 days. Since you haven't hired, I guess, on weekends and holidays, we refuse to say, 920 days of waste on weekends and holidays. It stays clean for 2,000 days. So we have 54 weekends, times two, that's 104, plus ten holidays, 115, multiplied by four years, at eight, that's 920 days, so there's no confusion, it's just 2,000 days, as many DOS parties are in power in Serbia. Simply, if the number of people who have been employed from October 5th to today, that's 20,000 people, divide by 2,000 days, you get ten. So every day you hire ten people in the state administration. I hope there's nothing more controversial. I wasn't in the best relationship with math, but I mastered addition, multiplication, seduction and division. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23329	National MP Momir Markovic submitted to the 100th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23330	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, gentlemen of the government, starting with the assumption that those fairy tales and fairy tales you've been telling Serbian citizens for nine years will finally come true, that our economy will be quick to revive, that our factories will start to produce, that you will bring us into the EU and that our transport capacities will be maximum employees, that our carriers will cruise along and across Serbia (accounting for this unfinished Corridor 10), that our goods will flood Europe, in which case someone will send a truck, but in so much traffic, the truck cannot return until the day it's registered, so it can be one day, two days, and, of course, by a member of 100. you would punish that man by the penalty of 10,000 to 300,000 dinars. I suggested that that sentence be between 5,000 and 100,000, because I think it's far more appropriate. Because a man who runs a transport company is so busy, he needs to meet the deadlines, to transport all the goods we've produced, to fill the European shelves with our goods, and I thought this would be much more appropriate. The answer is why my amendment is not accepted: “The criminal provision and its height want to prevent the offence by the entrepreneur, the owner of the means of transport. “ Now I'm just curious to know which cantar you measured so that it couldn’t be five, and it couldn’t be ten, and it couldn’t be a table, the other one, and it couldn’t be 300. What are the criteria that you set, unless it's imported from Europe without us knowing in Serbia? I think it's much more appropriate to punish from 5,000 to 100,000, because it's an extremely large range, you can fit in – we're going to punish this one with a table, the one that's closer to us than 5,000. He wouldn't lose anything of the law, because he doesn't have anything. He wouldn't lose anything with this provision.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23331	Thank you. National MP Predrag Mijatovic submitted to the 100th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23332	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam President, Madam Minister, on behalf of the SNS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 100(2) of the Law on compulsory traffic insurance, which refers to violations. Namely, point 2), which is listed here on several occasions, provides for a fine of between 10,000 and 300,000 dinars for an entrepreneur who owns a means of transport, if he does not allow the driver of a means of transport to have insurance policy or other evidence of a completed insurance contract, and as the owner of a motor vehicle and the European Car Safety Report. I can admit that I don't understand what this European traffic accident report is. In this law, we haven't been able to find an explanation of what it represents. The amendment proposes that point 2) be deleted because such an inappropriate dragon penalty is punishable by the owner of a motor vehicle that owns an insurance policy and this European accident report, but at the time of the control of the traffic police, either he or the driver who manages the motor vehicle. By erasing this point from the law, what needs to be paid attention - abuse, i.e. intentional harm to an entrepreneur who owns a motor vehicle by an employee driver, who can do it for any reason. I consider this point only to be a charge of the Republic of Serbia's budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23333	The 100th amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23334	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here is the government's explanation given for this amendment that best says how far the bill and the reasoning, or the Government's opinion on the proposed amendments, have been done. Look, Madam Minister, the title above article 100 reads "Fences". Paragraph 1 of Article 100 states: “A fine of between 10,000 and 300,000 dinars will be fined by an entrepreneur, owner of a means of transport... “ It’s just a matter of time before I go home. ” Now, on the side that the range is completely irrationally determined, from 10,000 to 300,000 dinars, and in Article 100 paragraph 2, it says: “For the violation of Article 1, this member will also be punished by a natural person - the owner of a vehicle with a fine of between 10,000 and 50,000 dinars. “ At least two legal problems are now being raised here. In an explanation of why you do not accept this amendment, you say: “The criminal provision and its height want to prevent an economic offense by a natural person – the owner of a means of transport” and it is an offence. In the bill of law, you say this is a felony, and in your opinion of the amendment, you say it's a business offense! Madam Minister, you're probably not a lawyer, but your associates, probably one of them is. Business crimes and violations are two completely different types of criminal acts. Now you can't identify it all. It's impossible for a physical person to be responsible for a business offense. Only legal persons, economic operators, shall be responsible for commercial offences. A person can't be responsible for a business offense. There's a law on economic crimes that regulates that matter. On the other hand, how are you going to punish the same person twice? Are you going to conduct two procedures? In the position of Article 1, you're punishing a natural person like...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23335	Time. National MP Sladjan Mijaljevic submitted to the 101st amendment. Would you like a word, Mr. Myalevich? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23336	In Article 100, the words ‘from 10,000 to 50,000 dinars’ are replaced by ‘thousand to 20,000 dinars’. Explanation – The SRS considers that in the current situation, the overall economic crisis is more appropriate. The state of our country and the social situation in which Serbian citizens are located is amazing. I'm expressing my surprise again. As the law comes, I'm more surprised. We know, and that's what we warned, that the budget will be empty and you won't be able to grant yourself every wish. We can't believe that through all the proposed laws that you've been passing these past few months, there are 10,000 fines and up to 500,000 dinars. I ask the question, who are you going to charge this money from? Of the impoverished citizens of Serbia, for which it has become an empty desire to receive a salary, let alone more than five, ten or fifteen thousand dinars. For a fine of 50,000 dinars, he needs to work at least half a year. Of course, he can't pay and - then what? He's going to jail. According to this pricer of yours, you'll put more than half of Serbia in jail. You do not seem to realize that the other half will deliberately commit some kind of violation to have free accommodation and food. It's better to go to jail than to throw it at the train tracks. I believe that my proposed figure "from 5,000 to 20,000 dinars" is much more humane than what you suggested. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23337	Members of the 101st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric and Milutin Jelic. Would you like a word, Mrs. Djeric? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23338	Dear Madam Minister, we have submitted an amendment to Article 101 where we have requested that the words "and witnesses" be deleted in attitude 2. First of all, Section 2 of Article 101 reads: “For the violation of Article 1(2), this member will also be punished by a natural person - a participant and witness to a harmful event with a fine of 100,000 to 200,000 dinars. ” We see no logic at all, no reason, no reasonable justification for a witness to a harmful event – we know what a witness is, it is someone who can accidentally be found at the scene of an accident – being punished by a dragon penalty. (President: The government, by the way, has accepted the amendment. I didn't get an explanation.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23339	The word has Mrs. Secretary.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23340	The amendment was accepted by the government.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23341	We're moving on to the next amendment. National MP Marko Milenkovic submitted to the 101st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric and Milutin Jelic. Would you like a word, Mrs. Djeric? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23342	I ask that the use of the word "euro" be replaced and that money value is indicated in the monetary value, because the euro is not an official means of payment with us. Even though Article 10 explains why the law states so, I still think the law should contain a dinar means of payment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23343	Thank you. The title above Article 111 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vlad Milojkovic. Here you go, Mr. Milojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23344	Ladies and gentlemen, to article 111. I have submitted an amendment to the mandatory insurance law, which is to be deleted. Article 111 The government states that the fund is starting to work, i.e. by performing the tasks set out in this law, at the end of two years from the date of entry into force of this law, and during this period, the Association shall carry out operations through a special dedicated account of the Guarantee Fund, and that account shall be obliged to open the Association after the entry into force of this Act. The question arises: if a guarantee fund is necessary, why not start working immediately? The answer to this question is given by the government itself in a proposal for this law at the end, where it says, "The guarantee fund will take over and employees of the Association." The government did not accept this amendment, with an explanation that reads: "The legislator has given the time limit for all necessary preparatory actions to be taken and all necessary conditions to be met. “ Ladies and gentlemen, with this response, the government shows that it does not care about the amendments and their content. How is it possible without preparation and conditions, as stated by the Government, to open the gyro-account of the guarantee fund and to work with that gyro-account for two years? This is amazing, that someone is working with someone else's jury account, not theirs! A simple question arises – who will be responsible for the loss if it occurs in this period? Probably the Association, which won't exist after two years.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23345	Member of the 111th Amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milos Radulovic and Zoran Shami. Here you go, Mr. Shami.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23347	Madam President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the Democratic Party of Serbia, I have tabled an amendment to Article 111 and allow me to explain this. Namely, you are in art. from 73rd to 96th introduce a guarantee fund. Unlike some of my esteemed colleagues, I don't think it's a bad thing, I think it's a good thing, because it's some guarantee that insurance companies will be able to collect damage even in cases where they can't do it so far. In particular, in Article 74, I will only read item 1: "The guarantee fund is established for the economic protection of passengers in public transport and third damaged persons, in cases where the damage is caused by the use of an unsecured or unknown means of transport, as well as for damages to which the insurance company is responsible for the insolvency proceedings. “ It’s all nice and nice. Such guarantee funds exist in many civilized countries, whether they are within the EU or not. The only thing that is wrong is that you, by Article 111, say that the guarantee fund will begin to carry out the tasks set out in this law at the end of two years from the date of entry into force of this law. That is, the law will come into force, as you suggested, at the end of September of this year, so at the end of September 2011, citizens will receive such protection. So, 24 members of this bill, which is about a quarter or a fifth, you've spent on something that won't apply for the next two years and three months. On the other hand, there is absolutely no reason why the guarantee fund would not be established immediately. I can appreciate the reasons why certain funds are needed to form a guarantee fund. I can respect these reasons, but we proposed in the amendment that the guarantee fund be formed from 1 January 2010. So the first next budget will form a guarantee fund. It's something that's normal. But what I think is definitely about your bill and everything else, I'll talk about it in the end. I totally don't understand why such an amendment has not been accepted, as I don't understand why other DSS amendments have not been accepted, and as I don't understand why a large number of amendments have arrived from other parliamentary groups have not been accepted. The law is so disastrously bad that you could accept at least a third or half of these amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23348	The amendment was submitted to Article 111 by MP Ognjen Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 111 of the amendment was submitted by MP Goran Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 111 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Mladenovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 111 of the amendment was submitted by National MP Pai Momchilov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Article 112 of the amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Would you like a word, Mr. Lightning? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23349	The title above Article 112 shall be deleted. It reads: “Sources of liabilities by the guarantee fund at the Association”. Your explanation of the eligibility of Article 112 is that the new guarantee fund would not be burdened with the practice and its consequences from the pre-stabilisation of the insurance market. What kind of stabilisation of the insurance market are you talking about? We have been listening all day to arguments that help us to see that many of the things in this bill will lead to the destabilization of the insurance market. We have seen today what is the difference between the amount charged in the form of the insurance premium and the amount paid on the basis of the damage. If there were no abuse and corruption in this part, it could indeed be talked about stabilising the insurance market, as you state in the reasoning of this member. However, as long as abuse and corruption are in place, there is no speech of stabilisation. This is how you try to stabilise the insurance market and the market in general, then, how you try to prevent Serbian citizens from finding out, for example. What are the salaries in public enterprises and institutions, what are the salaries on boards, agencies, etc., reminds you of what you're hinting at a girl in the dark – you're the only one who knows what you're doing, but no one else knows. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23350	The amendment was submitted by MP Milan M. Nikolic to Article 112. Do you want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23351	Dear People's MPs, I have submitted an amendment to the proposal for a mandatory traffic insurance law. It refers to Article 112(1) to be deleted. This view reads as follows: ‘The sources of the guarantee fund at the Association of Obligations Obligations under Article 111(3) of this Act are: additional contributions from insurance companies and other sources according to the regulations which were in force until the date of entry into force of this Act. "The Serbian Radical Party believes that in the current situation, the general economic crisis is the establishment of another state body such as the guarantee fund is unnecessary. The government didn't accept the amendment. The government has its reasons and it is based on the following: “Amendment is not accepted for the reason that the establishment of a guarantee fund is in accordance with Article 1. The second leave of the European Union. The aim of its establishment is to provide more efficient economic protection for passengers and third parties in cases where the damage is caused by the use of an unsecured, or unknown means of transport, as well as the protection caused by the use of a means of transport for which the insurance company is responsible for the insolvency proceedings. The establishment of a guarantee fund is foreseen at the end of two years from the date of entry into force of the draft law. “ I remain that the establishment of a guarantee fund, numbering five members, appointed and resolved by the government, is unnecessary and goes to the harm of the Serbian budget and citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23352	The amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Popovic to Article 112. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23353	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I request an amendment to delete the position of 2nd Article 112. Proposal for a mandatory traffic insurance law. The following point is inserted: ‘The additional contribution referred to in Article 1(1) shall be paid by insurance companies by way of an exemption from the premium of compulsory insurance and the funds made by the regressors to persons who have not concluded a liability insurance contract in a manner, within the time limits and scope established by the Minister in charge of financial affairs. “ In explaining the amendments to article 84, I pointed out the inability to form a guarantee fund. In the current situation of the general economic crisis, the establishment of another state body would practically mean the duplication of the institutions that exist in relation to traffic insurance. This kind of cost-effective move by the government is inadmissible. You're just increasing the state administration. I remind you, when you came to power on 5 October 2000, there were eight thousand employees employed in the Serbian government. There are now more than 28,000. After the adoption and application of these laws, that number will be more than 29,000, and you promised that once you came to power, you would reduce the state administration, that the state would be cheaper and more efficient. Instead of hiring new employees in the state administration, I suggest you finally start with the promise you made in the budget rebalancing debate – you promised to reduce the number of employees in the state administration by one-third. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23354	The amendments, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Gordana Paunović-Milosavljevic and Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23355	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, if you weren't a doctor of economic science, if you weren't doing what you're doing, you'd have packed up the coasts very nicely. I'll do my best, based on my humble knowledge, to explain to you what it looks like. In Article 112, paragraph 3 you have provided for funds for the operation of the fund, and besides, you say – and other funds. Isn't it logical for other funds to be the secondary ones, the ones that cost the citizens of Serbia less? See what is provided for under other means: they are provided from the Republic of Serbia's budget, under one; under two, by privatisation of insurance companies. Whose societies? State. Under three, other funds set up by the minister in charge of finance affairs. I've come to article 112 and a definition of why we have a law like this, which is why you're defending it. That is the attitude of others, and the donations of domestic and foreign persons. This "donations of domestic and foreign legal entities" can be – and other means, but what we have counted are funds that are directly collected from Serbian citizens and that cannot be acceptable for us from the SRS. Also: "The amount of funding from the Republic of Serbia's budget is determined by the finance minister. “ Better than better - looking. I assume that you have defined yourself for this law for the simple reason that the NGOs that exist in Serbia, and they are funded by those who want to destroy the Republic of Serbia, or the state of Serbia, are asking you to make the path to the European Union (i.e. the map of the road, which we are talking about whether it is good or not) faster. You say, "Mothers, through the law that is now on the agenda, we will promise you that we stand up for it." And as you promise, that's what my colleagues will do when they comment on the amendments they submitted to the article. 116th and 117th of this law explaining when certain provisions...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23356	The amendment was submitted to Article 112 by MP Jorgovanka Tabakovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23357	The amendment refers to Article 112, which defines the sources of liabilities to be settled by the guarantee fund, which are disputed for SNS in the sense that part of the assets achieved by privatisation of insurance companies is actually used to settle obligations under Article 111(3) and these are obligations arising from the mandatory insurance contract concluded with insurance companies which have been withdrawn from the insurance authorisation until the date of entry into force of this law. The funds that we have already achieved by privatising insurance companies (or those that we will achieve) we will settle the obligations of the companies that we have extinguished. Whose fault these societies were extinguished, whether their shut-down was carried out by law, that is the topic that I am revoking this amendment because when we adopted the Insurance Act in October 2007 we submitted an amendment to which we wanted the National Bank and its employees to control this type of activity to personally respond if they were recklessly or with extreme negligence, even unintendedly, to harm these insurance companies by closing them. You yourself know that the legal proceedings of shutting down these societies are very problematic, some still current. Now you're asking us to grant you the means of shutting down one important financial factor, which is insurance companies, or privatisation, to focus on what someone has done with carelessness or error, and to defend that you have put in order. Whether the order has been introduced or the market has been cleared is not the subject of feelings or impressions, but concrete results on our financial market. At the moment when the US state invests state resources, budget, to raise the insurance company AIG to its feet, you, gentlemen, are obliged to help us with the adoption of the loan agreement with the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, where they promised us those 34 and 900,000 euros, or $50 million, for this purpose, that you will be aware of the participation of the domestic insurance sector from 34% to 30%. From these means, from the privatisation of the domestic insurance sector, which you will reduce while world trends are completely different, we will direct part of these funds within the meaning of this law to obligations where, by mistake and non-domestic business of the NBS, damage has been done to someone; they have not been paid those damages, and we are going to overrun from one damage to another. That you made a mistake then, and unlike many other modern solutions, you let the People's Bank work and control over the insurance companies, issue and withdraw licenses, we can't pay a hundred times, and it's not right for us to pay, twice the least, by this and this solution. I really don't see any reason for me to say a little bit and brazenly to us, to state error to cover new damage to our citizens. In the light of the amendment, we told you that by privatizing the remaining state, social, call them whatever you want, insurance companies to cover these damages, because these insurance companies were supposed to sell until we did, if they were to be sold at all, and I'm saying it's not... They should have been kept in majority state ownership, as they are one of those factors for the development of the financial market, where we would have competition between banks, insurance companies, investment funds, voluntary pension funds. No, you want to leave everything to strangers, in a way that makes this remaining insurance company as low as possible because it's exposed to the competition of foreign insurance companies at a time when we were neither capable enough nor strong enough to engage in that competition. We've been telling you all along that it's not a privatisation rescue. Friedman admitted at the end of his life that it is not only an objective to privatise, but also to introduce regulation, to change management, that management must be in a function of efficient business. Not everything can be solved by privatisation at all costs. I can't have government officials, the control officers of the National Bank, who have closed down, under very problematic circumstances, many insurance companies, being protected in this way by providing the means to make such insurance commitments disappear now from privatisation. I don't think this is really a good solution, and that this source - part of the funds achieved by privatisation - must not be the source of funds to settle obligations by the guarantee fund at the Association. Other funds can and should be sources, but this part has to be deleted, because it is not correct to talk about development, and what is charged to pay for the compensation of some previously committed mistakes, motivated by certainly unobstructive reasons, certainly also has subjective reasons.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23358	Thank you. The amendment was submitted to Article 112 by MP Dušanka Plecevic. Here you go, Mrs. Plecevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23359	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I propose, by amendment, that Article 112 be deleted. Article 112 refers to the resources for the settlement of commitments by the guarantee fund at the Association. The position of the 4th proposal says the amount of funding from the Republika Srpska budget is determined by the finance minister. I ask, from whom will the minister take the money and give this fund, how much money will it take, how will the amount of these funds be calculated, where these funds are provided in Serbia's budget, will a new budget rebalance follow after the establishment of this number of new bureaucratic mouths? Probably will, until all members of DS and G 17 plus are home. You really don't have measures, you don't have solidarity with other citizens of Serbia. In addition to the intention to blindly follow all the instructions from the EU, including the most absurd and most harmful of citizens, you are not touched by any criticism and warnings. Such a degree of criticism cannot be overcome by well-packed floscules, so these are not the moves of the socially responsible government. I propose that all amendments submitted by the Serbian Radical Party, concerning the establishment of this guarantee fund, be accepted, i.e. not to establish this fund. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23360	Thank you. The amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic to Article 112. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 112 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Dobrislav Prelic to the title above Article 113. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Mr. Flea, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23361	I've had three amendments when it comes to this trust fund of an art. 73 to 113, and it makes sense that I asked for all three to be wiped out. We think the Government of the Republic of Serbia has much bigger problems and much more important things to think about than this law. What's this about? On the agenda of this session, under point 1 was the proposal for a law on regional development. How will you explain to our citizens that there is no Kosovo and Metohija as a region within Serbia? Mr. Martinovic tried to explain to you what's going on in Vojvodina. I will now, Madam Minister, give you an example that is astounding, I hope you've heard. We are truly afraid that these are the first steps towards causing unrest in Vojvodina. 713 monuments were destroyed in the populated town of Stapar ten days ago in the cemetery. To be clear, the SRS is against any vandalism, in any cemetery, it doesn't matter what religion is. What is startling is that the Stapar belongs to the Sombor municipality, where the Democrats are in power, and no one has come to that municipality to offer people help. We are the only ones who came from the Odjaks municipality, bordering the Sombor municipality, to offer them help. It is a clear policy of the League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina, it is a clear policy of the Alliance of the Duchy Hungarians, but it is becoming clearer and the politics of Bojan Pajtic and it is increasingly...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23362	The amendment was submitted by MP Marina Ragush to Article 113. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted to the title above Article 114 of the amendment by the People's MP Verica Radet. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23363	Article 114 speaks of the adoption of statutes and the appointment of the Director of the Guarantee Fund. I have proposed erasing, as SRS MPs have proposed to delete all members relating to the constitution and work of the guarantee fund, but I would say a few sentences concerning the adoption of this law. I really don't get it, Mrs Dragutinovic, who's been bothering you to pass this law now when, for the sake of the public above all, this law takes effect only 90 days from the day of publication. Certain provisions of this law will apply on the day Serbia enters the EU. This is really amazing! Instead of dealing with what is today the problem of all Serbian citizens, instead of being a finance minister or part of the government, or the whole government, you are dealing with the problems that citizens today have, which are caused by the crisis in Serbia, to do everything in your power not to have 10,000 people left without a job per month, to do everything in your power to finally start something in Serbia to do, not to close down (and where people possibly work for some 10,000 or 12,000 dinars), you do not care at all about the difficult economic and social situation of Serbian citizens, you are adopting laws that may never apply, because you have no guarantee that...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23364	Thank you. Time's up. The amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Radovanovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23365	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 114. The bill, which states: "The Management Board of the Guarantee Fund will, within 30 days of the date of appointment of the President and members of the Management Board, adopt the Statute of the Guarantee Fund and appoint the Director of the Guarantee Fund. “ By amendment to this article of the bill, I ask that these provisions be deleted. Why? Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs Dragutinovic, when explaining his amendment to Article 86. I mentioned the bill that we SRS MPs are not against the economic protection of passengers in public transport and third-party damaged persons, so that you, and of course Serbian citizens, believe that we are not against it. When interpreting this amendment to Article 114. I assure you, not that we are not against the bill, but that we are responsible for the economic protection of passengers in public transport and third parties in cases where the damage is caused by the use of an unsecured or unknown means of transport, as well as for the compensation of the insurance company over which the bankruptcy proceedings have been initiated. The guarantee fund sounds nice to the citizens of Serbia and all persons found in a secure case, i.e. to seek compensation for the damage suffered by traffic damage, expect the state to do so. The state, then, guarantees something, and to the citizens it's very nice. But will that be possible? Every member along the way... Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, I'm sorry, I overstepped two seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23366	The amendment was submitted to the title above Article 115 by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23367	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 115. The draft mandatory traffic insurance law shall be deleted in such a way that the title above this Article is deleted. In this regard, this Article 115 prescribes time limits for the adoption of the rules necessary for the enforcement of this law. However, we need deadlines to comply with these regulations, if we consider Article 117, which speaks of the delayed application of certain provisions of the law. I'll just remind you that certain provisions of this law come into force at different times. For example, from Articles 1 to 60.17 of the members enter into force when the Republic of Serbia joins the European Union. So, never or who knows when. One-third of the rules laid down in Articles 1 to 60 shall enter into force. In fact, all these members are essential members of this insurance law. Furthermore, the provisions of some members take effect at the end of three years from the date of entry into force of this law, which can essentially mean that this could theoretically take effect after Serbia's EU accession. Furthermore, the provisions of some members shall enter into force at the end of one year from the adoption of this law; provisions of some members from 1 January 2010; provisions of certain members following the accession of the World Trade Organisation. I ask you, state me one law, one normal law in one normal state where every member literally comes into force at different times? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23368	The amendment was submitted by MP Suleiman Spaho to article 115. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic to the title above Article 116. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23369	Madam Minister, in the spirit of this interactive debate that you have shown today and demonstrated your commitment to speak to the MPs, I would ask for an end, given that this is the last amendment that on behalf of the SRS is going to defend or represent, to give us one answer. The answer won't be difficult. I suppose it won't be difficult for you, because I think you're absolutely competent and responsible for giving it away. Although this law is unacceptable to us, we find it essential to apply Articles 6, 27, 33, 34, 36, 37, 38, 42, 46, 49, 50, 51, 53, 57, 60, and 96. The application of these members was determined by Serbia's accession to the World Trade Organisation and the EU. My question in the end won't really be difficult. I am not asking you for a date for Serbia's accession to the EU, but you could give us a year, if we knew when this law would be fully applicable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23370	The amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zeljko Tomic and Milos Radulovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23371	First, I would like to remind myself of the principle debate we had, and we will remember that it was the same late, deep into the night, that we had three joint agenda points and that Mrs Diana Dragutinović first explained those three laws to us, and then Mr Bozidar Djelic. On this law, the Deputy Prime Minister and Madam Minister spent a total of five minutes; only on this law, those other two laws are much more detailed and more detailed. In doing so, they both served, with no ill intention whatsoever, by reading certain data. What I'm saying is that, for my word, this law in the government is quite inconclusive and presented to the MPs at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. What's interesting is that there are as many as 37 provisions in this article that delay the application of this law. It's just amazing! It's a really big number. It means: until the date of accession of the Republic of Serbia to the European Union, at the end of three years from the date of entry into force of this law, at the end of one year from the date of entry into force of this law, from 1 January 2010 and from the date of accession of the Republic of Serbia to the World Trade Organisation. I hear that someone has already said that people's saying, I will repeat it, I wanted to highlight it independently from Mr Batic who said it – this law can be called "Do not lipify the donkey to the green grass". When? Should any traffic participant carry a copy of this law, run an interpreter with him to know what the damage situation is? Should foreigners have a translation of this law, to fit into norms? What will they know and what will it look like in the field? (President: Mr. Tomic, you have five minutes left. I do, I'll spend it. When you say in attitude two. "from the date of accession of the Republic of Serbia to the European Union", and we return to Article 27, the damage for which the damage claims are less than 1000 euros (that is, those minor damages), we should wait because, as you stated in the explanation, and for the rest of things, the same principle is, although not my amendment, but it is very interesting, you say: "Amendment is not accepted for the reason that the bill, in accordance with EU directives, provides for the minimum amount of insurance to which insurance can be agreed. “ So they are foreseen. We cannot use them until the EU joins. Very interesting, but we were able to accept the SAA ourselves, regardless of the EU directives and councils, so our country made public information that, based on customs losses alone, the state of Serbia had a loss of 17m euros in the first quarter. Do I have to multiply it by four so I can figure out how much it's on the annual level, is that going to increase? How do we apply something unilaterally, and here at small damages less than 1,000 euros, we accept a directive, a council or something by the EU? The whole law, I repeat, is a kind of papazian. The average man can't trace the provisions when they're in force. I repeat, there are 37 of them. You reject this amendment. Okay, but just that you made it more understandable, simpler and clearer, and you didn't. You didn't adequately defend him. I'm not saying it's your fault, this isn't your law, we all know. This law is unreasonable, incomprehensible and everything that goes with it. For this reason, the DSS Parliamentary Group cannot support such a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23372	Thank you. Members of the 117th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Shami and Milica Radovic. Would you like a word, Mr. Shami? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23373	President of the Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Madam Minister, Mr Tomic has already explained what this is really about. The amendment tabled by Mrs Radovic and I concerns point 1, which lists as many as 20 members of this law that will start to apply 60 days from the day of EU entry. When it's going to be, there's no point in bidding now, it's almost not going to be. I understand, I've carefully analyzed all these members. Wherever there was any doubt that members might not be applied if we were not in the EU, I understood that. I have proposed that three members be applied immediately. I made a proposal to apply Article 6 immediately to apply Article 27 immediately and to apply Article 42(1) immediately. I'll read you what this is about. Article 6 states, among other things, that I will not read to you the whole article, let's say the 1st point, so you will understand what is going on: "The insurance company is obliged to deliver the conditions of compulsory insurance, tariff and premium system with the technical basis of the premium of that insurance, not later than 90 days before the start of application, and it is solely for the purpose of verifying their compliance with the regulations, actuarial principles and the rules of the insurance profession. “ What does it bother to apply immediately? Why can't he do it right now? I have already given the answer, because we want to keep on going. What does this have to do with our desire to go to the EU and to comply with our laws, even with the rules of the EU game, but with the rules of play that apply in all civilized countries? Also valid in Switzerland, which is not an EU member, is also valid in Norway, in Russia. They can't apply to us, because, my God, we need to continue to cultivate practices that insurance companies have no obligation to insurance companies, and they still have to be insured. Article 27 says - damages for which the damage claim amounts to less than 1000 euros in dinar equivalent and for which, with the request, they have been delivered and the evidence is considered small damages. The insurance company shall pay the damages referred to in Article 1 within eight days of the date of receipt. Of course, we'll only do that one day. Until then, there's no small damage, no eight-day deadline, but there's a time limit that likes it. Article 42: "The insurance company is required... “ It’s just a matter of time before I go home. ” Do you notice that everything you delete refers to the insurance company as a liability? It can't. The insurance company doesn't have to do anything. I'm still surprised that the ruling majority will support this. It is neither in the interest of the citizens of Serbia nor in the interest of yourselves. Therefore, ‘the insurance company is required to calculate the premium for each premium group of the compulsory insurance premium system on the basis of the relevant data for that tariff group’. It can't. You didn't accept anything from the amendment. I have to correct my colleague, Tomic -- not that we will be against this law, but we will gladly vote against it. There is, however, one unfortunate finding, Madam Minister. At the ranking of the worst laws this assembly has adopted or will adopt convincingly in the first place is the budget, and second is the law. Both times you've had this accident to defend it, not guilty or indemnity. This law is not your fault, it is the Serbian government's fault that allows such a scandalous law to be found in parliament. The law is, in fact, misnamed. It's not a traffic insurance law, it's a law on the protection of characters and works of insurance companies. According to my recommendation, there were only two members: the first member to be – insurance companies are not required in any way to those who are insured with them, and the other – if there are obligations, the article is applied. All this other stuff is too high, believe me. What I'm saying is don't take it personally on your account, I've addressed this very precisely to the Serbian Government. I didn't even know how right I was when I was in the debate in principle saying that in this government, neither Eurosceptics nor Eurofanatics were sitting, but Eurosofilants. You really are Eurofolators. In the end, Madam President, regardless of this law and of this amendment, I don't know if they passed on to you, I last time that RTS released a delayed transmission at one night, so probably by four or five o'clock in the morning, it's usually the time when a lot of television is watched, I turned my attention and asked that you as President of this Parliament, who is obliged to guard the honor of this Parliament... Personally, I think the release of a delayed transfer in one night is an open rts mockery of this House and the misrepresentation of this Parliament, please... I understand it can go delayed transmission, but it can't go delayed transmission in one night. I even said – that's when the most serious competition for this assembly is porno films, so please, assembly, please. It's a message from RTS to this assembly. I know you don't determine that time, but I think you're in charge of defending the honor of this House and I'm asking you again to warn RTS that if there is a need for a delayed transmission, it will be at some point in time, immediately after the conclusion of a sporting event or one that has caused the direct transmission to be interrupted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23374	In terms of transmission, I have made an emergency, however, the length of our work determines, in fact, the time, or the free term. Unfortunately, this assembly of parliament cannot solve everything that has not been resolved before. We don't have any mandatory relationships to each other. That has to be precise. That will be when we have the congregation channel. The amendment was submitted by MP Milan Škrbic to Article 118. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed a search of the Bill's proposal in particular, does the representative of Dr Diana Dragutinovic, the finance minister, want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Madam Minister, just sign in.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23375	The Honorable Presidency, honourable MPs, in most of the criticisms of this law has turned into a discussion about the European Union, our place in it, our perspectives, whether or not we are Europeans, what are our chances of entering and what is the deadline. Whether we love or not the European Union, everyone has the right to see themselves, what is only indisputable is that it is more developed, more orderly and that the legal frameworks that it has enable the development of different industries, that it imposes rules of conduct, that they are not bad rules. I take these rules of conduct as general good. All I would say today after this discussion is – is this law the way it is, with a delayed or urgent fact, good or not, better than the previous one? I'd like to remind you of the current, valid law. It's a law on security of property and persons, which has only 20 members and leaves many things unregulated. We may like it, we may not like it, but this is definitely a better law. Maybe it is, Mr. Shami, on your blacklist. I'm very interested in why and the budget? I'd like to hear the reasons. It's just a set of numbers. Are you saying you know exactly what an economic situation is going to be? I think you're a serious man, too, and you don't mean that. I would end up, given the great interest, regardless of the criticism of the length of my exposure, by the fact that this area deserves to be regulated by a special law and that it is based on some other laws, precisely because I think some other countries have more experience and higher levels of human capital, knowledge in this area. We have done nothing that is important different from how countries in the EU regulate this law. There's a lot of criticism about why a delayed application. What I've learned from you, dear MPs, is that whatever I do is not good – or some change goes quickly, we're not ready yet, or when we leave time to adapt to the new framework, when we let the industry take a break without competition, then we do it too slowly. It seems, never in time; too fast, too slow. In any case, I'm sure this law will leave enough time for the development of this industry and for greater stability, more responsibility for the insurance companies. Because it's not true that there's a hiducia here, that's what those who lost their license for, why they lost her. What is certainly most important is that this law is indeed in the interest of insurance and damaged persons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-17-0.u23376	Thank you, dear minister. I'm concluding a review of the mandatory traffic insurance bill, in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. I thank you for your active work in the debate. I thank the minister and her associates. We'll continue work tomorrow at 10:00.
