ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-04-0.u29526	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, as you have heard, we have today a package of four statistical laws relating to classification, statistics and lists. The classification of activity is a general standard according to which the classification of companies, entrepreneurs and other forms of organisation is carried out. The Labour Classification Act is registered by the classification units adopted in 1996. From then on, there have been major changes in the registration process. By law on the registration of economic operators, registration has been arranged in a completely new way and this job is now being carried out by the Agency for Business Registers. The Republic Bureau of Statistics no longer classifies business entities in activity. There was also the need to revise the classification of activity. A European classification, which has been applied since 2008 in the EU, has now been taken as the basis for drawing up the classification of operations. These are the reasons why they have conditioned the adoption of a new law which, under new circumstances, will normably establish the basis for the Republic of Serbia to prescribe a classification of action that will fit the EU's work classification in substance and structural terms. An important law on official statistics regulates the collection of statistics and identifies what republican authorities are empowered to carry out certain statistical research carried out in 1982. (President: Madam Minister, if you'll excuse me, if you'll be a little closer to the microphone, the hearing isn't very good. ) The relevant law on official statistics provides for the collection of statistics and determines which republican authorities are empowered to carry out certain statistical research. (President: Gentlemen of the Parliament, so that we may hear from the Minister, I pray that there may be peace in the hall. ) The existing law was passed in 1982. The changes that occurred in the organisation of business entities and in the institutions of social activities, as well as in the organisation of state bodies, are such as to require the adoption of a new statistical law. During 2002, Eurostat, the EU's statistical body, and the UN's European Economic Commission developed a global assessment of the state of the statistical system in the Republic of Serbia. The report suggested that a master plan be developed for the development of official statistics, with the aim of enabling the dynamic development of official statistics in the Republic of Serbia, to create a basis for obtaining the most significant statistical indicators, to focus the development of official statistics towards harmonisation with EU standards, classifications and methodologies, as well as good international practice, and to promote the role and importance of official statistics in society and encourage its wider use. To achieve these objectives, it is necessary to pass a new law on official statistics. The master's plan envisions that the basic legislation in the field of official statistics should make up two laws. It is the first law to regulate the legal framework of the statistical institution and its activities at the level of the state, and the second law to be passed to carry out large statistical actions, such as the census of the population, the list of agriculture and the like. When drawing up the draft law, the basic principles of official UN statistics and the code of practice of European statistics have been taken into account. The bill sets out that official statistics activities are based on a five-year statistical programme and one-year plans. The programme is brought by the National Assembly and the plan by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The specific section of the draft law regulates the confidentiality of data, since the principle of confidentiality of data is given special importance in the statistical system. Data confidentiality provisions shall be applied in all stages of the production and dissemination of official statistics data. The censuses represent the most extensive and complex statistical research, both by content, methodological solutions, and by their specific organisation. Most ECE countries, Europe, North America, Israel, are planning to implement the next list in 2011 to ensure optimal data comparison between countries. The 2011 census will determine the total number of inhabitants, households and dwellings in the Republic of Serbia, as well as their schedule at lower territorial levels, administrative districts, municipalities, cities and settlements, which will meet the needs of data users in the fields of population policy, spatial planning, the realisation of general and regional urban projects, residential-communal activities and the like. Based on the original notices of the characteristics of the basic units of the list - the resident, the household and the apartment, a number of the most important characteristics – family, agricultural land and buildings will be identified. The aim of the adoption of this law is to regulate in a unique manner the rights and obligations of ministries and other bodies and organisations in relation to the preparation, organisation and implementation of the census, in particular the tasks and tasks of the Republic Bureau of Statistics. In addition, this law regulates both the obligations and duties of data providers and persons directly performing census tasks, as well as the dissemination of census results. Funding funds for the census are provided in the Republic of Serbia's budget, for each year in particular, between 2010 and 2013. According to the estimate, it is necessary to provide a total of 2,896.000,000 dinars. Finally, the Agricultural List Act, which is due to be held in 2011. As you know, agricultural production in Serbia in the value of production takes significant part in the gross domestic product. The World Agricultural List Programme recommends that all countries carry out a list of agriculture between 2006 and 2015. The implementation of the 2010 World Agricultural List Programme has coincided with national needs, since the list of agriculture in the Republic of Serbia has not been implemented since 1960 and structural data on agriculture is missing. On the way to EU accession, Serbia's agriculture must be adapted to a series of EU rules and standards, which will greatly change the situation in our agriculture. The set of laws, rules and procedures to be adopted in agriculture includes legal standards, common agricultural policy and structural funds. In order to successfully monitor the adjustment process and assess the degree of consistency, it is necessary to introduce a number of statistical indicators in agriculture statistics. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-04-0.u29527	Thank you, Madam Minister. Does the rapporteur of the Committee on Science and Technological Development, MP Pavel Marchok, vice president of the Committee, want a word? (No) Did the MPs of Milorad Buha, Srboljub Zivanovic or Marko Milenkovic, who issued an opinion at the session of the Committee on Science and Technological Development, want a word? (Yes) The word is Mr. Buha. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-04-0.u29528	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable citizens of Serbia, are before us four laws, of which we must pay attention to two – relating to the census of residents, households, apartments and agriculture. No matter what the two laws are, we must observe them in general. It is an important task of a country related to population, household, property and, a special area, agriculture. The SRS finds it unacceptable to go like this, as set out in these bill proposals, in two lists. We're up for a list. So, a unique form, with issues that will cover all the databases, the basic data that are necessary for the state, or for the work of the state authorities. In current practice we have databases by various state authorities, so the Ministry of Interior has its own, the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy has its own, etc., but we do not have a single database, which should be done on the basis of a list that will be, we see, in 2011. Regardless of 2011, we do almost nothing to bring this data together and that all state authorities are making an effort to, without financial resources, come up with a particular database that will be comprehensive and make one whole. When we talk about financial resources, we must in particular remain on the financial resources to be allocated from 2010-2011-2012 for these purposes. For the census, households and apartments, it's almost two billion 900 million, and for the list of agriculture, about a billion and a half, or to transfer it to another equivalent, to the euro, it's about 47m euros. These are serious funds for this country. The question is, is that what we need now? If we combine this 47m-euro data with what the state is investing in employment, then we will see the real value this country and this people will set out for the 2011 census. During the period 2007-2008, the state allocated exactly that much, about four and a half billion dinars, or about 50m euros, for employment. It just shows the proportion of these jobs. An open question arises, is it necessary for us now, and can we use these funds that we will invest for a list for other purposes? There are huge resources to be allocated for these purposes, according to these two legal projects. Personally, I think, and the view of the SRS is that we need to think carefully about whether to enter this project right now, whether or not we're going to get from the data we're going to get through this list something in society that is important to us, meaningfully and rationally right now. We don't think that's it. On the other hand, we don't see a comprehensive move from the projects ahead. Here, a month ago we passed the Diaspora Act, about Serbs in the environment. The question arises, are we going to get from this data that you listed in Article 3. Proposal for a census law, get a comprehensive list of all persons living in the diaspora? We won't. Are we going to get information on their assets? We won't. Are we going to get information on the real rights they have in these countries? We won't. The question arises – what about refugees, internally displaced persons? Are we going to include this data that we're going to get through the list? We won't. This raises the question of the purpose of the law itself and of the work that we are entering, and on the other hand, we see what are the funds that we will allocate to these purposes. We believe that this law was passed without serious thinking, without serious consideration, and that it would have no purpose to have.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-04-0.u29529	Thank you. It's been five minutes. Does Mr. Marko Milenkovic want to take part? (Yes)
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-04-0.u29530	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at the session of the Assembly Committee, I issued an opinion on the draft law on censuses, households and dwellings in 2011, above all, because of the enormous, excessive amount of financial resources needed to implement this law of 2,699,125,000 dinars. Citizens of Serbia, what is this government that leaves 10,000 people out of work in yesterday's day, justifying it by saving and rationalising funds, and the next day, it is pointlessly spending 2,700,000 dinars, or two million euros, without reason? Anyone involved in the work of local self-government knows that a census can be done without any additional funding from the budget and that all of this can be resolved through the work of the local administration, and that you will agree with me, the valuable 29m euros invested in the launch of the economy, the creation of healthy conditions for the development of agriculture and livestock, the construction of infrastructure and, together with that, for the employment of construction and all other operations, but it is obvious that this government is not the goal. In search of reasons for this wasteful behavior, we must go from 29m euros, the time limit, from 1 to 15 April 2011, and the list of agriculture from 1 to 15th November 2011, with an additional 16m euros in expenditure, and come to the only conclusion we can come to, which is that it is a simple robbery of taxpayers, who do not eat these statistics, but only wants to work and live from their work, to support their families. Is it, perhaps, about some preparation of the next elections and the purchase of votes, because this government knows very well that it has neither done anything for its people nor will it do anything in the future, so it would not surprise that behind this seemingly pointless spending of Serbia's citizens' money there is this kind of sedition. As far as the 2011 Agricultural List Bill is concerned, it is only one in a series of laws after which the adoption and realization of our citizens will not be better. In addition to costing taxpayers 16m euros, which our country could invest in the development of agriculture, it will, as a public, face the devastating data on the collapse of agricultural production, as agricultural producers are so deceived by this government, have had to reduce both livestock stock and agricultural production to a minimum. The list of farms should be made as cheap and faster as possible, on one comprehensive form – a ticket, and on another form, the same censuser, at the same time, can also make a list of the population, households and apartments; the censuser should be a worker of the local administration who, with modest means, will do quality work and the state save 45m euros. It's the key to resolving these lists, and it's certainly not a senseless spending of money while the state goes on Saturday and new responsibilities, which the government is presenting to the media as a major success. At the meeting of the Assembly Committee, I also issued an opinion on the proposal for a law on official statistics, as well as the need to collect statistics and other data of general interest. I absolutely agree that this is one of the important and necessary laws for every serious and organized state. Now there is a serious question -- as far as we are, if from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Directorate for Africa and the Middle East, we are members of the Friendship Group with Israel, no matter how many of us don't know how it got there, I was looking for Russia, Belarus, India, China, and someone very smart from the ruling majority was determining it, a official reminder of the state of Israel, showing an Israeli stance on non-recognition of Kosovo's independence.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-04-0.u29531	Thank you. It's been five minutes. From the representatives, or president of the parliamentary groups, the word first wants Mr Sinisa Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-04-0.u29532	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, the Honorable Madam Chairman, the Honorable Madam Minister, respected fellows, the adoption of a law on classification of activity, official statistics, the census of the population, households and housing, and on the list of agriculture is one of the most responsible jobs that the National Assembly should do quickly and efficiently, and in line with the highest legal standards. For a long time now, the large legal vacuum has been seriously burdened by the lack of these laws, which classify all the legal entities of our country, provides an unbiased statistical basis for the numerical and representative display of relevant data for our country, and the precise census includes citizens of the RS and for the first time collects the necessary elements from our country's agricultural list. The legal vacuum mentioned was not created by our will, but by the decommissioning, first, the SRJ, then the communities of Serbia-Montenegro. However, it has caused not only a large number of negative consequences, but has also imposed the need to finally, in accordance with Article 97 paragraph 6 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, arrange and provide a system for the performance of certain economic and service activities, collect statistics and other data of general interest, collect, hold, process and use of personal data, family and household. Individual laws explain basic legal institutes, but also concrete solutions necessary for the implementation of the census, agriculture and for the production of certain nomenclature data. The old law on the classification of activity, hence the register, has been the unit of classification and has been valid since 1996. The procedure for the registration of undertakings and entrepreneurs has been moved from commercial courts and transferred as a business now carried out by the Agency for Business Registers. The PUPS parliamentary group considers that there has been a better solution to registration in trade courts than with the Agency, especially since the Republic Bureau of Statistics no longer classifies business entities by work. The need for a revision of the classification is not our creation. This is the imposed need for it to be revised, while, as a basis for our classification of activity, a European classification has been taken, which has become a standard applicable since 2008, and there is no room for objection, because it has to be applied. Subject to the conflict of jurisdiction between the legislative authority, Parliament, and the executive authority, i.e. Governments, as well as the Agency, have been completely eliminated, by now being subject to a conflict of jurisdiction between the legislative authorities, i.e. Parliament, as well as the powers of the executive authority, as well as the Agency, shall, by its content and register, fall within the power of the executive authority. In the public debate, all businessmen and entrepreneurs took exactly the same view that when prescribing the classification of activity, a general standard is to be laid down according to which the activities are classified in the form of the organisation of companies and entrepreneurs. In the view of the PUPS Parliamentary Group, the registration must establish the same obligation to register each activity according to the general classification, regardless of whether it is business companies, entrepreneurs, services or acquisition of profits, since that is why each economic operator becomes, firstly, registered to PIO, the Health Insurance Fund, etc. Statistical research in order to provide data on production, transport, employees, salaries and investments, and in particular data on final accounts, in our opinion, must be strictly protected data. The collection, processing and presentation of data on the situation and developments in the economy, in the social area and in the areas of labour and the environment, as well as in the area of international obligations, in our opinion, must be transparent, accessible to the public, meaning, public data. It is particularly important that this law defines scientific research and analytical work in the field of economy at all levels and degrees of homogeneity, because they are now individual and are located outside clearly defined assemblies, therefore both outside the public and transparency in the work. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has been given a great opportunity, but also an obligation to give a very responsible and correct classification of all the activities in our country, through a sublegal act. The PUPS parliamentary group will also be seen as advocating that the Government covers all forms of companies, cooperative organisation, all forms of banking and financial organisations, all companies for the insurance of persons and property, all forms of brokerage and drug dealers, all forms of financial leaser, agricultural landowners and entrepreneurs, as well as all forms of public enterprises, institutions, state bodies, bodies of autonomous provinces, local self-government, trade union and other political organisations. In particular, all forms of organisations or individuals carrying out activities and representing foreign legal persons should be covered. We think it's a good idea for registration applications to be coded, with the name of activity and the classification code. It is good to establish the obligation to notify of the over-worked classification, as well as the obligation to change in the classification of the activity, when it comes. The PUPS parliamentary group considers this law to be rounding up competences, but also increasing the number of obligations of the Agency for the Economic Register. Its obligation is established that, in the short term, which has not been the case so far, classify all the units of registration, in accordance with this law, and that these data be published on the Internet presentation and on the website of the authorities responsible for statistics affairs. This would make a huge contribution to the clear implementation of the Public Interest Information Act. The PUPS parliamentary group will support the proposed law in the voting day, according to us, procedurally. The law on official statistics is a very important condition for harmonising our data and legal regulation in the field of statistics with current recommendations and EU and UN legislation. At this stage of intensive preparations for possible entry into the EU accession process, it is very important that all statistics, by emergency procedure, are in line with globally applicable directives and recommendations, as well as with legal legislation. The global assessment of our statistical system is not great. This immediately imposes the need to establish a plan of activities to edit all statistical areas, then, a plan of existing and necessary resources, so that our system of statistics is consistent with Eurostat, or with the UN/ECE system. In this set of laws, it is clear that these procedural, technical and basic laws cannot be passed without each other, i.e. the master's plan obliges that all legal regulations in the field of official statistics must first be regulated by one law which, at the level of the State, regulates all statistical institutions that will work on its application, and the other law will regulate the collection of necessary data, such as – censuses of the population, households, lists of agriculture and, ultimately, all other lists at national level. The PUPS parliamentary group believes that, in addition to legal solutions in this set of laws, additional legal documents and regulations are needed to complete the master plan and allow for the dynamic, regular and responsible development of the country's official statistics in transition as our own. We believe that it had to be more precise to define the relationship between the data providers and the data manufacturers, because the degree of mutual, or interactive responsibilities has not finally been defined. We think it's possible to do it with amendments. Closer regulations for the creation of basic and most important statistical indicators should be adopted immediately after the adoption of the law, so that official statistics, after many wanderings, are finally directed towards the alignment of methodologies, the proper classification of the nomenclature and the statistical practices with world standards. Obviously, so far, it has not been enough to compare our official statistics with data from other countries and international organisations, which in world information systems such as the Internet, including some others, has so far caused some disagreements, which you know well. It is obvious that statistics in our society were not used for the greatest needs of our citizens, because it was a closed system, which was entered by institutional methods. This law will allow the right to promote both roles and the importance of official statistics for everyday life and the use of our citizens. The participation of official statistics in making decisions relevant for the development and management of the economy, as well as the protection of the working and environmental environment, is indisputable and extremely important. Information obtained from statistics is necessary to look at the situation in demographic and all other social movements. This is exactly what the legislators of this law had to impose strict respect for all principles of responsibility for the truthfulness of statistical data, for strict respect for the principles of statistical science and profession and for the strictest relationship to professional ethics, with respect for all methods and procedures for the collection, processing and storage of data. Statistics dealing authorities commit this law to a correct play of the published data, which requires them to present data sources, in particular the methods and procedures applied in the collection and processing of these data, which has not been the case so far. In its analysis of this law, the PUPS Group has argued that certain data are strictly protected and that they can be used in the statistical profession in the case of legal persons and that data on natural persons can be published with their consent, or with the approval of the competent court. The protection of the rights of data providers and statistical units, as well as the exercise of their rights, are at this sensitive social moment of special importance in this law. As responsible producers of official statistics, this law has established – the Republic Statistics Institute, the NBS, the City Administration of Belgrade, local self-government and others. They are legally obliged to strictly respect the five-year statistical programme, which is a good solution, as well as the fact that the law detailed all the tasks carried out by responsible statistics producers. Perhaps the Institute should not have been given the right to establish new or to change existing administrative sources, but merely the right to participate in the proposals. The Publisher Group considers that one amendment to that law should specify the right of the Republic Statistics Office to make additional resources through specific data processing, through additional procedures or through statistical activities that are not defined by this law. The Statistics Council, which will deal with the strategic issues of official statistics of our country, is quite well defined in terms of regulating its role, composition and ways of appointment of members of the Council, while perhaps its programme and work plan should be clarified. In particular, the Council would have to establish control refizione authorities that in certain situations would have to carry out control, technical preparation and making records on the basis of which the Council would assess possible failures with the authorities of the statistics producer. This is a technical and administratively very responsible law. The PUPS parliamentary group will support it, with the adoption of several very concrete amendments, aimed at improving the methods of continuous monitoring and monitoring of all adopted statistics. The Census, Households and Apartments Act 2011 is one of the laws of this set of basic and technical laws without which we cannot carry out the collection of statistics and other data of general interest and as set out in Article 42(2). The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, under which the collection, holding, processing and use of personality data can only be carried out under the law. According to our decision of the law, the preparation of the census, organisation and realization will be carried out by the Republic Bureau of Statistics. Of course, at the level of the whole of Europe, including the UN, it is planned to be the year of the census in 2010 and 2011, because of the need to provide optimal conditions for data comparison. It contemplates us in order to discuss whether it is expensive or not, whether it is necessary or not – it is imposed on us and it must be implemented. We believe that this law will establish the total number of citizens, households and dwellings in Serbia, and that we will establish a new real database of censuses following all events related to Serbia, especially migration demographic data, which have changed so much lately. Let us hope that the law will provide a list through which data will quickly and efficiently be obtained in certain parts of each settlement, from the level of statistical and list circles, to the level of the Republic, in order to finally revive all areas of population policy, global and detailed spatial planning and all areas of urban projects in the area of residential-communal activity. The PUPS parliamentary group considers that the list of households and dwellings must be carried out according to the highest standards and with the highest possible responsibility. Listers must be professional and legitimate, authorized to make a list. The person holding the list must be strictly responsible for the confidentiality of all data collected in the list – persons, households, apartments, and the special responsibility will be borne by the Republic Statistics Office. The use of aggregated data from the 2011 census must be strictly protected, technically and securely secured, and the spending of funds intended for the list shall be strictly controlled and transparent. All persons who are listed and all households and housing holders must be provided with a free declaration of nationality, mother tongue and all other rights guaranteed by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The PUPS parliamentary group proposes that the Republic Statistics Institute, which will draw up methodological instructions for the list of persons, households and apartments, be obliged to obtain the consent of the Government of the Republic of Serbia before applying. The Government should therefore agree on the proposal to define all units of lists and their characteristics, as well as to agree on all standards and classifications of the nomenclature, as well as the programme for the introduction, control and correction of the listed building. The government must consider and adopt a proposal from the Republic Statistics Institute for a single tabulation and publication programme of the census of national interest, as well as to issue a programme and tabling for the needs of international institutions, such as the UN, Habitat, UNESCO, Eurostat, etc. In our opinion, the law regulates the issue of the importance and objectives of the census, as well as the way in which the list is organised and executed, with a guidebook for organisation and enforcement. The special responsibility of all participants in the census is required, in particular the Republic Bureau of Statistics, when selecting to draw up and train the list committees to make the list. There is a huge, extremely serious and materially very expensive task of all municipalities and the Republic in timely preparation and update of home numbers, the names of streets, parts of settlements and settlements, with complete lists, in order to carry out the 100% coverage of the units of the list. Preparation of documentation, preparation of statistical and list circles, as well as notices of the importance of listing and the responsibility of participants in the list, is a huge job, which should prevent any disturbance in the preparation and execution of the list. All competent ministries undertake to carry out mandatory preparations for the implementation of the census, primarily the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Agriculture, within their work. The PUPS parliamentary group considers that the deadlines proposed in this action law after the inventory has been carried out are realistic and applicable and that the results of the census should be published within a short period of one year. We believe that the preparation, organisation and implementation of the census, after years of planning, as well as coordination, due to an extremely large number of participants, should produce a good result, with the necessary support of state authorities, but that the final results should be published as quickly as possible. If we have obtained good equipment, which you have notified to the public, and following software for optical data input, and in due time and quality of all the list tasks, with the activation of GPS systems and devices for spatial positioning of residential objects, we believe that making table reports and final results can be possible for a short time. In the voting day, the PUPS will support the adoption of this law, with the support of technical amendments that need to contribute to an even better quality of the law, confident that we will contribute to the list of results on the number of populations, households and apartments being distributed as a basic source of information for small decentralised areas, for municipalities, for serious and responsible national and regional planning and development, as well as for better study of the demographic movements of our population and stages of socio-economic development and economic position of our country. Finally, the 2011 Agricultural List Act is the fourth basic law in the field of collecting statistics from the general interest set out in Article 97 point 11 of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. A strategy to develop official statistics for the period 2009-2012 particularly regulates agricultural statistics, which is in line with the EU methodology and standards. More than once at the state level, it has been found that we do not have a review of the structural characteristics of national agriculture that would be uniformly, fully evidenceable and maximumly usable, as all the approximations of individual data would be eliminated. The fact is, in agriculture now, we don't have a reliable database, which would be based on scientific documents. In Serbia's agriculture, that's the kind of database we used to work on back in 1960. Serbia's definition of forming a register of agricultural holdings from which new legal entities, bearers of obligations, but also subsidies and benefits from the state budget could be reliably established, is finalised by the adoption of this law. The need for responsible data to be available for the development of a sustainable national agrarian policy is ensured precisely by the production of all statistics related to agricultural holdings. Data on the structure of agricultural holdings, on location, land fund, land use categories, areas processed, under crops, on the number of fruit trees and chocolate vines, on irrigation, use of mineral fertilisers, plant protection products, on the number of livestock, livestock, on hives, on large and small agricultural machinery, and on facilities and labour, on ponds and forests, are united into one unique register, which was so lacking in our country.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-04-0.u29533	Mr. Stamenkovic, thank you. The word is made by the People's Messenger Balint Pastor.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-04-0.u29534	Madam President, Madam Minister, Mr. Director of the Department of Statistics, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, I will speak exclusively about the draft law on censuses, households and dwellings in 2011. More specifically, I will talk about the amendment tabled by SVM MPs, the Bosniak Lists for the European Sandzak and the Coalition of Albanians of the Presevo Valley. I believe that, despite the fact that we are only in principle debate, it is very important that the representatives of the government be familiar with this amendment, that they have time to make a final decision and, as we hope, accept this amendment that would specify the population census law in 2011. We have submitted the amendment to Article 27. The proposal for a law and proposed that, for a question of nationality and native language, the intended answer be an open type. Mr. Sinisa Stamenkovic, an authorised representative of the PUPS Parliamentary Group, has recently stated that they are also pushing for a solution like this. I am almost certain that most parliamentary groups have similar views on this issue, on this subject. We have assurances that there is a good will in the Government of the Republic of Serbia to accept this amendment. I may be knocking on the open door now, but it's better to knock twice than never. I hope this exposure will contribute to the success of this amendment. As you know, based on Article 47. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the expression of nationality, is free. In all the population lists in Serbia in the previous decades, in the sections for nationality and native language in the census form, it was envisaged, i.e. the possibility of answering in the open type system, which meant that there was only one line and everyone was writing whatever he wanted. This corresponds to a complete solution from the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, however, during a trial census from 1 April to 15 April 2009, this was not regulated in such a way. It was not regulated in accordance with current practice in Serbia and in accordance with Article 47. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Of course I know that the test list is done precisely to show the shortcomings and that it does not prejudge the solutions to the real list. I hope you too have made sure that this solution is not good, but it is necessary to accept our amendment, in order to give the right list, in 2011, of these issues the opportunity to answer so-called. Open type. The test list provides opportunities, let's say, for question number 14, on nationality -- Serbian and other, or in native language, that's question number 15, it stood -- Serbian and others. In our opinion, the question of nationality is the question of an intimate answer, but with the so-called, so-called, so-called "indeed." With a half-closed type of response, that feeling can be suggested. I do not argue and I do not think at all that it was in the midst of an evil intention, but this way of data collection undoubtedly gives the possibility of abuse, so we want this amendment to be quite certain, clearly from the 2011 census law that this list will take place, above all, in relation to these two issues – nationality and native language. It is doubtless that the way you practiced the codelist facilitates data processing, the process of machine recognition of text. In some ways, we have an understanding of this, but we believe that, however, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia should be respected, that current practice should be respected. That's why we stand for the existence of so-called. open system. This would also be in line with the Constitution of Serbia, with the Law on the Protection of the Rights and Freedom of National Minorities, the Framework Convention for the Protection of National Minorities and the Charter of Regional and Minority Languages. The Republic Council for National Minorities held a constitutional session on 30 November. It is one body made up of government ministers, eight ministers of the government of the Republic of Serbia, who are in some way and to some extent dealing with the problem of protecting the rights and freedom of national minorities, and the president of 15 national councils currently operating in the Republic of Serbia. The president of the Republic Council for National Minorities is Mr Cvetkovic, President of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. According to our knowledge, this council has decided to support this amendment by the Group of Minorities, and that is one solid basis for our amendment to be accepted. I hope so. I hope that I have managed to convince Mrs Matic and Mr. Director of the Statistics Institute in these seven minutes so that this amendment of the Group of Minorities will be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-04-0.u29535	Thank you. The word is Milisav Petronijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-04-0.u29536	President-in-Office, Madam Minister, Representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, four laws – the law on classification of activity and three laws in the field of statistics, are laws currently on the agenda and will be supported by the SPS-JS Group. When it comes to the labour classification law, it is proposed to prescribe the classification of activity as one general standard according to which all companies, entrepreneurs, all forms of organisation that carry out their work, are classified. The regulation of the classification of activity is, under this law, in the power of the government and I expect the government to do so in the best possible way. The basis for this classification of action is the European classification of action, which has been a standard for all EU countries since 2008, and, given that we are seeking the EU, is becoming a standard for our country as well. The proposed law fully responds to such a single European convention. We will support this bill. When it comes to the very important area of official statistics, we have three laws before us – the law on official statistics and two legal lists, one – the population and the other – on the list of agriculture. All three laws, in our opinion, are good laws and we will support them. I'm going to take a quick look at every little bit to explain why we're going to support them. As regards the proposal for a law on official statistics, the law aims to regulate the production of data and information, the organisation of a system of official statistics and, in particular, a significant issue – the presentation of the results of official statistics, i.e. making the results available to all users of official statistics. According to us, these are about three main issues that regulate this law. When it comes to the production of data and information, the proposer maintains that it determines responsible producers of official statistics, above all, the Republic Bureau of Statistics, as the main producer of official statistics, the National Bank of Serbia, the City Administration of Belgrade, and allows other producers of official statistics to do so, of course, those designated by the Council of Official Statistics, for which it is otherwise intended to form this law. When it comes to presenting the results of official statistics, precisely because we want these results to be displayed in the right way, the law provides the basis for this. I'm talking about the law, I'm not talking about practice or possible abuses. It's on one side. On the other hand, it is very important that one of the colleagues rightly warned that these data must be available to all users, but still an important issue must be protected to the extent that other regulations provide. Every reporting unit must be protected, each data must be protected, in accordance with the provided data protection law. We find it important to point that out. We believe, otherwise, when it comes to official statistics, that its existence makes sense if it provides data and information on economic, demographic, social phenomena in the field of working and living environments and provides for all users, from state authorities, to the highest public. We consider it important to point out that this information must be impartial, must be representative. Then official statistics have its full meaning, and if not, then problems arise. The law lays the groundwork for this first. We want, in the end, to say that today in the modern world there is no good decision if it is not based on data, information, statistics, but on the condition, which and the bill provides, that these data and information are relevant, that they must be relevant, impartial, reliable, professional, independent and, what I have already talked about, accessible to the general public and protected from all possible abuses. Such official statistics make sense and it's a very important area. We think this bill provides a legal framework for such official statistics. When it comes to the next law, or two laws on the list, the census law and the agricultural list law, I would like to say again a few notes on the name of the Group. The census is scheduled for April 2011, and was last made in 2002. The law stipulates that residents, households, apartments and housing buildings should be registered. I don't think it's too bad to say that both the census and agriculture is the largest, most important, most extensive action of statistical research and that it deserves to be regulated by law, so it has to be given special attention. It is an important job, which is to be done in 2011, and the notifications that we will get after the list will also tell us what is the number of conditions and most important characteristics of families, households, buildings, etc. We will receive data on the size and degree of use of funds, data on ethnic, economic, educational, migration and other criteria, characteristics of the population, vital data on all changes after the last census, which was in 2002, data that are very important for the active population, data on the ability of the person to perform daily activities, etc. Otherwise, the agricultural list law is based, conditionally speaking, on the population list law. The census should be some preparation for the list of farms, so that when a census is made, the data will be accurate, identifying where a detailed list of agricultural populations should be made. The law accurately regulates the obligations of all state authorities, ministries, the Republic Institute, the list committees which are the main organizers of the work in municipalities, those who provide data, those who collect data. So the obligations of all have been established. What I want to draw attention to, is that it is a great responsibility in front of everyone to make preparations in time, to do the job in the best possible way. Just a few words when it comes to the agricultural list. We'll start with two things. First, the last detailed list of farms was made in 1960, so 50 years ago. He was, in principle, a sample in 1969, 1981, 1991 and 2002, as part of the census. So, after 50 years, we have one detailed survey of the state of agricultural households in Serbia. Second, agricultural production, according to its values, takes a significant place in participation in the gross domestic product. Agricultural production is something we expect a lot, one of the strategic direction of development, a chance for the rural population, for employment and development. If these two things are taken into account, and the third, that there is no good decision without good information and good data, we think it is important that this action of the list of agriculture, for which the global programme is intended to be done in all countries, is done in the best possible way. Maybe there's only a few more words to say. I repeat, the census will, in fact, be prepared for the list of agriculture and the data that will be obtained during the census will be the basis for the list of agriculture. Given that this list will cover all agricultural households, all economic operators, all organised forms dealing with this activity, it is a very important issue for the country of Serbia. The data obtained by the list will allow us to review the situation in agriculture at national, local and household level, land, etc. Therefore, the agricultural list should be the backbone of the entire system of agricultural statistics. Finally, when it comes to agriculture, I would like to say that the data to be obtained by the agricultural census will be the basis for all future research, on the one hand, but also for defining the general agricultural policy in the Republic of Serbia. In fact, the key to the whole story is that. To conclude what I started. Action and census and the list of farms are very important, most of all, the biggest actions of statistical research. I want to repeat that there is no good decision, there is no good programme, good policy, good direction of development of Serbia if it is not based on data, information and statistics, of course, reliable, impartial, cleared from any influence on the part. We expect these laws to provide a legal framework for such official statistics and that the authorities will carry out all the preparations in the coming period, with success, this great job that awaits us in 2011, whose results can be used over a number of years. We'll support all four bill proposals.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-04-0.u29537	Thank you, Mr. Petronievich. The word is Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-04-0.u29538	Thank you, Madam President. Of the four laws, two of which deal with the subject of the census and agriculture, my presentation will cover only the first two, and my colleague Zoran Babic will talk about the other two laws. First of all, let me say that the Prosperity Group Forwards Serbia - SNS does not consider them any technical laws. On the contrary, I find the law on statistics and the law on classification of activity extremely important, and I simply do not believe that my colleagues have overlooked the essence of the law, for example, on statistics, which is shown in Article 11, which means amending Article 14. The law on statistical research, which previously covered this activity. So, the new statistical law, in Article 11, which treats financial resources, I will start with it, because money starts with it and ends with, in paragraph 2, it is said that the means obtained by processing data according to specific requirements, not what the law otherwise obliges the statistics to do, by introducing additional procedures, special operations etc., means obtained under such requirements can be used to develop methodological and information solutions, as well as for education and training of staff at the Bureau. These revenues cover the expenses incurred by these activities, and one would say that there is nothing out of the ordinary. However, Article 14 of the earlier law, which treated this area, says the revenues of their work and the provision of services with compensation, which are these specific requirements, reached by the Institute, belong to the budget of the Republic of Serbia. There's no such definition anymore. Now I wonder, is this through Article 11 of the realization of the general liberal concept that the state should be excluded, withdrawn from all action, thus showing that the state is losing its significance? So we need the state when it's funding us, and when we get some funding, no, it's just gonna be ours. Why was it necessary if you had previously had the right, through this Article 14, to thus obtain funds, meaning, by your work, but from special fees, to use for improving statistical research and modernising the work of the Institute? Why would I ask that? The fact that the state is losing importance does not mean that citizens have less financial obligations to the state. Just because the state pulls out, pushes out from many activities doesn't mean that citizens have fewer taxes. On the contrary, it means that we have a state that provides less and less protection and less real information, even statistical information, which I'm going to prove to you, but that's why we have more and more political control over this collected money, through various laws of regulated tax, contributions, taxes and all other, by definition, classical state revenues. So this isn't technical law for me. This is a law which gives statistics the opportunity to finance from donations, but also retains its own income, and how important the Bureau itself and the work that it does is speaking enough of the Law on the transfer of jurisdiction to Vojvodina, which did not allow the province to form a provincial statistical office. It is a good decision and it should not have been allowed, because the Institute of Statistics is really not a technical or so little significant institution. Why is statistics important? I'll only take two striking examples. As the government and state authorities abuse statistics, making up reality, showing it much better, and in the area of showing the values of social product, inflation, unemployment and consumer baskets, as the most impressive, it says enough that this is an extremely important area and work. This makeup of reality covers the government's failure and in some ways shows that the results are much better than they are, and that, you will admit, is not a small matter. Who today is in charge of money from other actions is also the one who sits here and talks about it. This impressive example from 2000 speaks of the former director of the Department of Statistics and one interview by Mr. Miladin Kovacevic, who said that the statistics in the elections were used in such a way that instead of the election records, statistics were used. For those who would like to forget, I will say that there are 800,000 voters at the time, so forged notes have appeared, quoting Mr Kovacevic's interview from Vranj, Prokuplje and some other places. So the statistics were used instead of the voter lists, and someone was supposed to be serving to win the election and exercise power. Mr Kovacevic says he was opposed then and that's why he was removed. The most recent example of the abuse of statistics, whether due to it or not, is absolutely not important, but the availability of statistics and interpretation and use of these statistics is a business of statistics. It doesn't even bother me to mention the name of the newspaper. On September 17th, he published an excellent text saying that the bill hid the fate of 137,000 unemployed. So, not only does the government abuse data, but within the government of a particular structure different interpretations of statistics, so, according to Jelasic, the governor of the National Bank, in Serbia, the number of unemployed for the last year has increased by 150,000 people. At the same time, National Employment Service Director Vladimir Ilic announced that the number of unemployed has increased by 12,500. Where it's gone and how it was possible to disappear from 137,000 unemployed who, when they hide, really make up reality, saying that in this country it's not all so terrible, and the most terrible proof of how hard we live is the number of unemployed. How could this have happened? 137,000 people can't hide so easily, it says in the text. Last July, 1,998,000 workers were employed, and this year 1,845,306 people, according to your data. Turns out he's not 150,000 unemployed, he's 153.584 workers. How is it possible that statistics from the Bureau of Statistics and the National Employment Service get quite different figures? Someone's gonna have to explain. Serious economists say that the rate of 14.7% that you are using based on statistical indicators is not correct; the result of the accounting trick and the removal from the list of those who do not register is clouding the actual data that the unemployment rate is 20%. How in these criteria are you going to protect statistics from this kind of abuse, which are neither benign nor meaningless, I would like you to answer me, but I don't believe that it's the goal of whoever gets the money and who is funded by the state to have that kind of independence that is publicly declared. Why do I say you have no good intentions? This law introduces even the National Bank as someone who sets standards for official statistics in the function it performs. You'll admit that it's inadmissible, that it doesn't exist anywhere in the world and that internationally recognised standards are the only ones that are exclusive and that you as the Statistics Service are the only ones who are authorized to take care of standards. In a previous debate on this statistical law, I submitted an amendment within the Progressive Group of Members of Serbia and was then adopted. Since there hasn't been a vote on this law, we'll see how you do now. The fact that you prescribe Article 10 to protect statistical research, results and everything else from non-professional influences, so you list: political, state bodies or some interest groups, is completely excessive, because the principles you have listed in Article 5 speak sufficiently about the non-professional influences of any kind. Otherwise, there's one more thing I have to resent, and I'm asking you to think about it. You refused the amendment last time. The National Bank, which is excluded from bankruptcy, from the Labour Register, which I will talk about, from the classification, can again be someone who, by special decision of the governor, will allow you as a competent and responsible authority to use data that they otherwise have and which they have in the process of their work. So, no special right of the National Bank to deny you, as a competent institution, the right to use the data, as defined in Article 30, should remain in the law. You have a contract provided for in Article 12, under which you prescribe a specific access to data of a kind, where the data is particularly important, important, secret, does not matter, but I ask you to keep that in mind when you adopt or discuss amendments. If this statistical law was supposed to settle not a lot of new things, but to be updated, because the last one was 1994 and changed in 2005, I would understand that, but I ask you that the part about losing the jurisdiction of the Statistics Institute itself and calling it something seen as the possibility of changing the authorities for statistics of some units does not lead us astray who think that good institutions, which have been built years ago, should not lose importance and that anyone, whoever is, should put them in their service. If we have allowed the Social Accounting Service to be destroyed, instead of correcting problems in the functioning that have been recorded, I ask you from the Statistics Bureau not to allow what is your legacy, in terms of experience, traditions, equipment and knowledge that you have, to be misused so that someone could abuse statistics in this way, from choice, to employment data, or unemployment. When we talk about the classification of activity, I have to say that as a state, after a normal normative arrangement of this area in the '80s, in the 1990s, when we did it in accordance with UN standards, we had one period of wandering, when it was resolved completely unwarranted, yes, for example. the single classification of work is adopted by the legislative authority. It's not right and it's good that the government is doing it now, but we can't let two things stay unregulated, and that's that we don't have a unique register of performance units of classification and that we can't make it impossible for units of classifying reactions when they're classified wrongly. That's where we responded with the amendment. Because what does it mean if you classify someone under this law into an activity that is not primarily his, the one based on which the highest income is obtained? We can do him irreparable damage. Whether someone is dealing with the production of precisely some of the activities that the state wants to develop in fiscal policy, or some of the international loans extremely favourably force that area, well, you can't ban someone from accessing some of the benefits, resources, rights, that someone's done that sorting beyond these criteria that I'm talking about. You'll know, as people who have been doing this for a long time, an amendment intervention that too much action can't just be reported by someone, that it's a matter of affidavit. I can't tell myself - I'm a Democrats by the nature of things; no, I have to prove it by my behavior. And these units of classification must also give you proof of what their most significant activity is, without you giving them the right, not a sublegal act of the Government, but by this law, to give them the right, in the procedures prescribed for business registries, to give them the right to appeal, or corrections made, in the name of legal certainty and in the name of the truthfulness of the facts when someone reports to you what it does. I think that this law has been dropped for newly established legal units, and we have also responded by amendment, how to report their action, to see what they want to do from the registration register, and later changes are possible. And what I insist on, giving meaning and giving statistics recognition, in the most part, to do well my job, is doing so in a way that the Bureau of Statistics and your authorities want us to empower this law to keep a single register of performance to everyone, not just the one who runs the Agency for Business Registers, as a entrusted business for business entities, but also all other associations of persons, because you have all the data coming together about us as a country, MPs, citizens, it would be easy to see what agencies are, the authorities of the administration. Even NBS has to find its place in this unique register, and you know perfectly well that there is no country in the environment and in a world that does not have a unique register with the same or similar name. You have to admit that we did, because the basic order means that you know who you're doing business with, who's in charge of taxes, who's in politics, what are parties, associations, NGOs or anything else. This law on classification of activity, which in principle regulates things, I repeat, must include a unique register and this right unit of classification, in which statistics must play a crucial role, because it has proved that this job can do well. All those who registered as legal entities must admit that they never waited longer for paper in statistics than was necessary. Those who have no experience should trust us and check that statistical organizations, or organs, have done so. But why is there any doubt with you today? If we, Serbian citizens, experienced yesterday, when I say to Mr Ljajic that the increase in the number of employees in his sector, which deals with the protection of persons with disabilities, has grown twice since 2007, from six employees to 12, and if the minister dares to say to the public and MPs that it is not true, and I have a list of employees who worked there in 2007, and I have the right to read their names, because otherwise, there will be the names of employees available, but I don't want to waste my time on it, I really wonder... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-04-0.u29539	Thank you, Mrs. Tabakovic. (Jorganka Tabakovic, from the scene: You shouldn't have interrupted me in the middle of a sentence. Here you go. Finish it. Yorgovanka Tabakovic. I wonder who and what can be trusted, if both people, their names and last names, and jobs, in order to deceive the public, are trying not to declare and keep silent, or agree, we Serbs say, how does the law break?- I'm sorry. Thank you. The word is Radojko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-04-0.u29541	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, today we have four extremely important laws. Their significance is far greater than it seems at first sight. We at the DSS have paid special attention to these four laws that are on the agenda. She was here, probably during the discussion of authorised representatives, i.e. debates in principle, will also be questioned by the need to have good statistics, or the need for whether it might be expensive. What's certainly a fact, it's that we need statistics, as well as a number of other sciences, but only as much as we know to use that statistics. If we are not paying attention to what statistics indicate, then all these results are extremely expensive and of course all these organizations that do this are unnecessary, but the difference between successful and unsuccessful societies is that successful societies use all the resources and all the abilities they have, and they are less successful in moaning about how someone or something else bothers them. The Statistics Act provides a legal framework and establishes the standards that exist in this area. It also defines who are responsible subcontractors of statistics. These are, above all, the Republic Statistics Institute, the National Bank and the city of Belgrade, as basic instruments for the implementation of statistics. As with many other things, statistics and the problems that we have in this area in the Republic of Serbia will be best said through concrete examples, not to talk about members of the law that in this area must be in some cases and unhappi, and very long. I think it is best on simple examples to point out which problems we have in Serbia today. For example, we often hear, and now the negotiations with the IMF are under way, the term 'GDP'. For example, how GDP is determined, at which prices, what are constant prices, what are current prices and how we deal with this basic parameter that exists in the economy. The second thing, at first glance, at least it's a lot simpler for me, because I have to do it every first month, when those bills come, to add up all the bills, what is it like? Serbia's debt, so what is the external debt, what is the internal debt, what is the total public debt and how much is the total debt when the private sector, economy, citizenship and everyone else counts. Can we answer a rather simple question in Serbia today? There is a grey economy, which is not in official flows, there is something that needs to go through the banking system and the budget. Let's see if we have any answers to all the questions today. The first dilemma we come to, or the first delusion we can enter, is if we look at the Ministry of Finance website, the public debt section, and the National Bank site, the two institutions that are most responsible. On the National Bank site is only a public debt, the debt of the state is 700 million more than it says on the Ministry of Finance's website. We will admit that 700m euros is not insignificant. What's the trap? The trap is that the National Bank defines all debts that Serbia has, and the finance ministry treats only regulated debts. The National Bank owes China 290m euros, a debt to Kuwait 330m euros, a debt to Libya and an unregulated debt to the London Club. Some of it will likely be, in the negotiation process, forgiven in a different way, but something will not. As MPs and citizens of Serbia, we absolutely have no answer to that question. It is said that the state will not be over-indebted if the total public debt does not exceed 60% of GDP. What product, when we can't even determine it? GDP is determined at constant prices from 2002. The structure has changed significantly over the past seven years, and this basic parameter is clearly being arranged in an insufficiently good way. On the other hand, the distribution of GDP is determined according to current prices. So, for seven years, as far as statistics and GDP are concerned, as a basic element and a parameter in the economy, it doesn't mean anything. That's what we're finding out in one way. When we talk about distribution, we determine in a completely different way. What does that have to do with statistics and the future of the whole country? Very big. In the first nine months of this year, according to official data, the total public debt has increased by a billion and 100m euros. It is a very large figure, the team is rather dramatic if it is taken into account that the Serbian Parliament granted another billion and 600 million loans during that period, which are in the course of various procedures and do not go into public debt, because public debt is not what the Assembly adopts but what passes the complete procedure. When we talk, again, about statistics, we adopted the largest number of these loans in the Assembly by emergency procedure. It has to be today, it has to be tomorrow, it doesn't matter what government it is, whether it's this one, whether it's the previous one, or the fifth one back, whatever you want. It has to be an emergency procedure, and then it's been waiting months and years for that loan to be realised. A billion and six million loans have been granted for various investments that are currently extremely needed for Serbia to move forward. They're waiting for a variety of reasons. For example, the programme loan for the development of the private sector of the Ministry of Finance, date of signature 30. Three. In 2009, with 34 million, it still stands. Agreement on Corridor 10 of the Ministry of Infrastructure, date of signature 22. 09, he's still waiting. An allowance for small and medium-sized enterprises of 250 million, 11. 05, he's still waiting. So you get to the billion and 600 million that we've approved here, the government signed, adopted, sent to us, we've been discussing it urgently, and now it's waiting for who knows what. If the statistics were rightly recorded, if we all had insight into it, the pressure on the executive power would be greater. I understand the president of the assembly has an understanding, so he says we should worry about it. We have an understanding, too, but this is a particular problem that we need to solve. Look at this loan for small and medium-sized enterprises. An allowance for small and medium-sized enterprises, 250m euros, under extremely favourable conditions. The contract is signed with the European Investment Bank on 11 May. The signature is Diana Dragutinović, with the Vice-President of the European Bank. In the name of the National Bank, he is the deputy governor of Ana Gligorijević. The government passed in June. That's what we discussed at that session where the Information Act was. The whole thing was moved by voting day, that month, August 31st, it's all over and it's still waiting. These loans are much more favourable to the economy than the subsidized loans, and that's a well-known thing. That's a total of about 5% interest on those loans. We've already had something similar with the European Bank and the rate of repayment of these loans is 99 percent. The government's not in charge. The government is just an indirect guarantee of this lending. These loans are more favourable to the economy than the subsidized loans given by the Government and standing somewhere. Let's get back to statistics. When we take these billions and 650 million that are approved and not yet registered as public debt, we come to the fact that public debt is no longer 9.8, but 11 and a half billion, because 11 and a half billion, compared to GDP, when it counts as we already said, is 38.5%. The question is whether Serbia is subject to a 60% of GDP criterion, for the simple reason it can apply to rich countries, with a strong economy, with very large exports, and for countries that have serious problems with the structure of the economy, with low exports, 60% is certainly not the limit of sustainability of the debt. Minister Dragutinovic, with all due respect to Minister Matic, is sorry that Diana is not with us today, said in an interview that, in her opinion, the sustainability of the debt is between 40% and 45%. If we consider that when these loans are regulated, which even this Chinese loan is being negotiated again, we are already at the 40% limit. I am pleased to have my friend, Mr Colakovic, but there is no obligation in this analysis to the PIO Fund, because none of these EU countries we are talking about and we are trying to compare ourselves with have no obligation, and this obligation exists with the right to allocate two billion and 300 million euros to the PIO Fund. It's not treated like a debt. It's not a debt, it's something that's an ongoing obligation, but every year you have to separate those funds from your budget to regulate your obligations to our citizens who are now retired. How are we going to take that from the point of view of statistics, and how are we going to figure it out? Approximately 8% of GDP is two billion and 380m euros, and this is a commitment each year. What the government is trying to make inflation eat pensions and seriously devalue that amount of pensions can be done numerically, but every year you have to allocate those funds. If you take into account the 8% more at the annual level of commitments to the PIO Fund or some other, then you can see how serious concern is about everything that happens in the public finance sector. If we don't talk about this and things this important, then we'll be on a serious dead end when we talk about what statistics need to help us. They need to answer questions like this and similar, because what's the list of the population, the list of the agricultural population and the agricultural holdings if we don't know where the exit is at the end of that and that kind of tunnel? In the case of public debt and the case of GDP, you can see how serious the problems are in defining statistics and how serious the matter we are talking about is. As long as we don't have complete information on all this, we can theoretically discuss both percentages and whatever we want. These things must also be talked about in relative terms, and what can be the only conclusion is that we have serious debates ahead of us and that we have difficult and serious tasks ahead of us in the coming years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-04-0.u29542	Thank you. National MP Jovan Nesovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-04-0.u29543	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Madam Ministers, fellow Members of the People's Parliament, is in front of us today four, it seems to me, an important law, which is the law on the classification of activity, the law on official statistics, the law on censuses, households and dwellings in 2011 and the agricultural census law in 2011. These four laws and their adoption in the National Assembly should allow for the smooth conduct of certain activities that are foreseen in the next period. As for the law on classification of activity, the old law was passed in 1996 and in this new law two large things had to be incorporated and where there were serious changes. The first change took place in the process of registering companies and entrepreneurs. The new law no longer provides for registration in trade courts and for courts to register and keep records of those registers, but rather for the Agency for Commercial Registers. The second thing, which is also important, is that domestic legislation, in the process of approaching the EU, should adapt to EU standards. Therefore, the law relating to the classification of activity must also be adapted. It was done in this law, a classification of action defined at the level of EU countries. It is therefore proposed to define the classification of activity as a general standard, i.e. the organisation of companies, entrepreneurs and other forms of organisation that carry out their activities shall be carried out according to their activities. The law also provides for where classification can be applied and it is applied when entering the business register of economic operators and other special registers, for statistical research, collection, processing and presentation of data on the state and movement in the field of economy, social protection, environmental protection and all that is important for the social life of a nation, for the adoption and monitoring of measures of economic and social policy, for scientific research and analytical work. What is also defined by law is that the government prescribes names, codes and descriptions of activity. It seems important to point out Article 5 of this Act, which says that the classification units are assigned to the appropriate classification category according to the activity they perform, and if they carry out more work, then the classification is done according to the principal activity. Articles 6, 7 and 8 define the obligations of the Office for Statistics, the Agency for Business Registers, as well as the agencies running specific registers. It is also important for our economic operators, defined by Article 12 of this Act, that the Agency for Business Registers is obliged to reregister all those registered under the old law and to publish it on the official site, so that they will not have any additional business. This also applies to entities registered with special registration units until the date of entry into this law. It is important for them that these jobs are done by the Statistics Office, too, within three months, and all will be published on the official site, so they have no specific obligations either. The second group of laws consists of laws in the field of official statistics, censuses and agricultural lists. When we talk about legislation in the field of official statistics, I think there are two areas important. One area is the legal regulation for the construction of state-level institutions, and another is the area of law that defines large statistical affairs, which are censuses of population and agriculture, which expect us, according to these laws, in 2011. At first, it should be said about this statistical law what it can enable in the next period, and what may have been less pronounced so far. This means that in the next period we should have a dynamic and regular development of official statistics and that in an adequate and legal manner offices of relations between producers and data providers, i.e. to create a basis for obtaining the most significant statistical indicators, that the development of official statistics is directed towards harmonisation, methodology, classification, nomenclature and statistical practices in developed countries of Europe, or international environment, so that we can adequately compare our official statistics with data from other international statistical organisations. In particular, it is for internal needs, that official statistics are the main sources of information needed to look at the situation and to make relevant important decisions for the development and management of the economy, as well as for the protection of the environment, the monitoring of demographic and other social movements in one society. The law also defines the obligations of the official statistics authorities. These authorities must respect in their work the principles of statistical science and professions, professional ethics, to define the exact methods and procedures for collecting, processing, preserving and publishing official statistics. Individual statistics are protected by law and can only be used for statistical purposes. It is important, and the law defines, that the coordination of activities between all producers of official statistics within Serbia's statistical system must be ensured. Article 6 defines which official, or responsible statistics producers in Serbia are – the Republic Statistics Institute, the National Bank of Serbia, the City Administration of Belgrade and other responsible producers defined in the five-year statistical programme, i.e. the plan. Articles 7 and 8 are defined as the jobs of the Bureau of Statistics. I'll just say some – carrying out censuses, household research, research in the areas of economics and agriculture and everything else defined in the five-year plans. To facilitate monitoring and coordination of work, the Council for Statistics of the Republic of Serbia has been defined. Under this law, he has 17 members and is well aware of which ministries and organisations determine their members. The Council has a very important role to play, it brings a strategy to develop official statistics of the Republic of Serbia, as well as a five-year statistical programme, which adopts the National Assembly, amends and complements the programme, adopts and proposes draft laws relating to statistics producers and other activities, develops promotion of official statistics and all other issues that are tied up to have stronger, better and better quality statistics at the country level. I said earlier that a five-year statistical programme was brought by the Serbian Parliament, and annual implementation programmes and plans were adopted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. It seems important to point out that the Bureau of Statistics is running two large registers – it is the Rules of Procedure and the Statistical Register and the Register of Agricultural Lands, and the Director of the Institute has been given to edit and regulate these registers. Article 38 is clear – statistics of statistical registers can be used exclusively for statistical purposes. As for the 2011 census law, households and dwellings, the census is one of the most popular statistical actions, but, of course, one of the most common and complex, perhaps the most expensive and expensive statistical actions. It is said and should be reminded here that there have been censuses in the state of Serbia before. The first census was in 1834. At that time, it was defined that every five years a census was conducted, because certain territories were freed, the population's frequent migration, the transfer of certain wealth, so that the state had to sort of take care of how it was manifested. On the other hand, there were two lists between the two world wars, in 1921 and 1931. All lists also apply today when certain historical analyses of the significance of that time are made, i.e. some data can be used very well. After World War II, we had our first census in 1948. It was important for a simple reason, which tried to see the situation, or damage that occurred during the war, in order to compensate some international forums for war damage. Since 1961, UN recommendations have started to apply – that every ten years we have a census. This only changed in 1992, because of the state community, i.e. the SRJ, and then the Montenegrins had a census after us a year, because of the lack of funds. The results of the 2011 census will determine the total number of inhabitants, households and dwellings in the Republic of Serbia, but it is important that we establish this in lower territorial forms, i.e. at the level of cities, municipalities, districts, settlements, all that is important for some of the analyses that are possible in some of the plans and strategies that have been adopted. It seems to me that it's particularly important that we finally determine the number so-called. old-age households, that is, how much agricultural land we have untapped, and we say that our agriculture is one of the main branches of the development of the economy. It is clear that these nursing households cannot work the country. It seems to me that we will get one good basis when we talk and make plans and for population policy, for spatial planning, for urban planning, for housing-communal action and all that is important for the development of a society. The law defines the list to be conducted between 1st and 15th April 2011, and the control will be carried out according to the lists. So, in a similar way. Article 2 of the Law defines who the list refers to. The census concerns citizens of the Republic of Serbia, foreign citizens, persons who have citizenship and residence in the Republic of Serbia, whether at the moment of the census they are in the Republic of Serbia or not, households, apartments are listed. The census also includes citizens of the Republic of Serbia, or foreign citizens, or persons without citizenship who have a residence abroad, but stay in Serbia for at least a year before the census began. Also, Article 3 defines who is not included in the census, and Article 11 defines the jobs needed to do certain ministries – the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of KIM, the Geodetic Institute and other organisations and other ministries. Namely, there are certain persons living in military facilities, they have to be written, persons who are on prison terms must also be written, persons located in diplomatic and consular representations, chambers of commerce, banks operating abroad and others, and they have to be written. It seems to me that there will be a very important role of the Ministry of KiM to make a list of our population at KIM. This process is expensive. It is fully defined that, from 2010 to 2013, it will total nearly two billion 700 million. If you have a five-member commission to do the job, most of the funds will go to the expense of those commissions, and most of the funds will certainly be related to the preparation of the whole process, because this is a comprehensive and very demanding job. As for the 2011 agricultural census, we will all agree that due to climate conditions, economic characteristics of land, position, temperature and all that is defined by Serbia's agriculture is one of the main economic branches of development. If you take the strategies of all local self-government, including the National Strategy, you will see that almost all local self-governments in Serbia say that the priority branch is the development of agriculture and that they expect a large number of people to be employed, that it is the backbone of the development of municipalities in the coming period. For this reason, one historical fact should be recalled, that a comprehensive list of agriculture was made in 1960, and each agricultural list since 1960 was made in a smaller sample and was made with a census. The list of agriculture is very important on the path of Serbia's EU accession, because we need to adapt a series of our regulations to EU standards and regulations, and this will greatly change the situation in our agriculture. The aim of the agricultural list is to obtain a comprehensive overview of the structural characteristics of national agriculture, to carry out databases, internationally comparable, based on key agricultural features, to establish a statistical register of agricultural holdings, to provide a framework for agricultural research on the sample of agricultural holdings, to provide statistical data necessary for the development of a sustainable national agricultural policy and to achieve the monitoring and achievement of certain objectives defined in the area of development. The law defines exactly what will be covered by the agricultural list process. It will cover locations, land funds, agricultural land use categories, agricultural land leases, livestock numbers, machinery. So a lot of data, which will be very good when certain plans are made for the development of agriculture in the coming period. It is also defined that the agricultural list will be worked immediately after the census, ranging from 1 November to 15 November 2011. This will save considerable resources, because the same list commission will be used, the same people will be trained, simply, can do the other job. So the census will give us exactly what agricultural holdings they are. We'll get a list of these owners, and then the censusors will be able, based on that data, to go and write down those agricultural holdings. It is also important to me, Article 4, to say in this principle debate who is covered by the 2011 agricultural list. Agricultural holdings with more than 0.5 hectares of land are covered. Agricultural holdings that have less than 9.5 hectares of land are also covered, but are engaged in wartime, livestock, wine growing, as well as some other forms of fish farming, plastics, greenhouses and all that is defined by law. Business companies, agricultural cooperatives, entrepreneurs and other forms of organisation in the status of a legal person whose main activity is to deal with agricultural production, as well as companies, institutions and other legal entities that have a branch that also deals with agricultural production. This law also defines the obligations of the Republic Bureau of Statistics, Listing Commissions, which have five members, and, normally, the obligations of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management and other organisations to participate in this list. This is also a demanding job, a job that costs quite a bit. It is foreseen in the budget that this job needs to be separated nearly a billion and a half dinars. It has been defined exactly per year for how much funds should be allocated in the Republic of Serbia's budget for each year in order to carry out a quality list of agriculture in 2011. Viewing these laws, their importance for the implementation of activities that are very important for society in general and the state of Serbia next period, G17 Plus will support all four laws and we expect that in the day for voting and other parliamentary groups to support them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-04-0.u29544	Thank you. People's MP Radisa Ilic has a word. Meso Omerovic. Will you just sign up? Here you go. You have your word, Mr. Omerovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-04-0.u29545	Thank you, Madam President. Reporting under Article 104(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which speaks of the dignity of the National Assembly, i.e. the provision of accurate information. I have no intention of opening up the controversy. My esteemed colleague, Jorgenka Tabakovic, asked a question yesterday, as Minister Rasim Ljajic directly replied that it was not 12 people, but 9 people. It's possible that my colleague didn't hear well. I also took advantage of the law and requested additional information, i.e. accurate data from the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. More because of the public, than because of the controversy with a colleague, I would like to say that in the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, in the Department for the Protection of Persons with Disabilities, nine people, from assistant ministers, to professional advisors, are constantly employed. It is the only information that is correct and should be handled, so I will gladly give this document to my colleague, Jorgenka Tabakovic. It is clear here that it is nine people working in line with those acts that are the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. But this is more information for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and for the accuracy of it, so that we don't play with numbers, because those numbers hide living people. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-04-0.u29546	Thank you. Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-04-0.u29547	Thank you. Since living people are hiding behind these figures, their names are next – in 2007 they were employed in the sector, I present the data based on their authority: Stevan Smolović, Zagorka Jankovic, Dragana Kralj, Milica Đurić, Milena Banović and Jelena Kotevic. Today they are employed in the sector, alongside those six people, and the following living people, with names and last names: Zorica Gruevski, Sanja Todorovci, Aleksandra Djordjevic, Nebojsa Milovic, Biljana Debeljaković and Constanta Gajger. Systematization, reporting, whether or not they really are, this is an actual state of affairs, and the number of employees and what has been reported, is just talking about the credibility of ministers, who give one piece of information when they bring the budget to adoption, one when they speak to the public. These are the naked facts and you can't fight them.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-04-0.u29548	Mr Meso Omerovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-04-0.u29549	Comrade Tabakovic, you just read what I said. I said nine people were employed in the Department of Protection of Persons with Disabilities. You mentioned three, and you read six more, or you mentioned four, and you read five, mostly, again with the same data. So you're saying exactly what Minister Rasim Ljajic said and what I said today. So, in the sector we're talking about, it's been employed exactly that many, nine performers on a permanent basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-04-0.u29550	Mr Tomislav Nikolic, the base of the announcement?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-04-0.u29551	Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Omerovic has violated the dignity of the National Assembly. Mrs. Tabakovic has read 12 names, and he claims she has read nine, so please at least watch what happens in this room. So, Ms. Tabakovic read the 12 names of the ministry employees, and Mr. Omerovic claims it was nine and she read nine, which is absolutely impossible, six who were found and six others from the DS, who hired at the time Ljajic is minister, and that's the only truth.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-04-0.u29552	The public degree in the work is such that there's no need to arbitration. Mr. Omerovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-04-0.u29553	I really have no intention of opening a discussion about something that is clearly said and for what the exact data exists. So, according to the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, which is the freshest possible and is not more than a month old, with all these names spoken by counterpart Jorgenka Tabakovic, there are nine people who are employed in this sector and that is the only truth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-04-0.u29554	Thank you. Mr. Radisa Ilic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-04-0.u29555	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before I say anything about the 2011 bill on the upcoming census and the other laws that are on the agenda, I'd like us all to imagine ourselves well over one fact, very certain, which will happen to us in the future. It is known that Serbia loses a city of 30 to 35,000 people each year and, by progress, that number will grow to two and a half million Serbian citizens less than it is today. If this trend continues in the Republic of Serbia, at the end of the 21st century, we will be alive by nearly two million citizens. It is obvious that the census in Serbia will be conducted by another people and that Serbs will represent a minority in the country of origin. If this is added to the progressive destruction of national awareness among our people, it makes it easier to introduce laws by EU directives, especially in the fields of education, culture, state administration arrangements, laws that have come upon the harsh condemnation of the public, the Serbian Orthodox Church and other traditional religious communities, because the obvious threat to the family as the basic cell of every society threatens our people to die and disappear. This, first of all, should be borne in mind by those who rule this country and who are responsible for strengthening that state and surviving instead of stagnating. On the contrary, no one in power is seriously dealing with the problem of negative natural growth in Serbia. The only thing they've done is a couple of billboards, one Sunday show and brochures that are mostly shared by those who have gone deep in the late years. Other countries are taking serious measures to avoid disappearing, the extinction of their nation, while we in Serbia have decided to record this situation, from census to census. The last census was made in 2002, at a time when it started to offensive Serbian companies, banks, armies, Serbian territory, the Serbian Orthodox Church, Serbian language, Serbian officers and patriots. The offensive was led by those who should be in charge when the 2011 results are summed up, although it may already be late for Serbia by then. I am convinced that all lines will go down a downward path, except for those that graphically depict an increase in poverty, crime, tuberculosis, suicide, cancer, sterility, etc., that I do not count. To begin the census, we first need to see where Serbia's state borders are, what will happen after the possible adoption of the Vojvodina statutes, as EULEX has set conditions for Serbian authorities. These are the first issues we need to clarify, so that the census can be properly implemented in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. I ask the representatives of the government -- how are you going to execute the list at KiM when you, in some six points, handed over the trust to Eulex, and they, in gratitude, as the true Latina, dropped the ramp? No Serbian government official can go on KIM, including KIM Minister Goran Bogdanovic himself, but it did not bother you to write Article 16, based on which, just a little while ago, the ministry, or the minister, will conduct the upcoming KIM census. A man who served as minister in Rugovina's government, while the Serbs were being burned and bombed by houses of Cypriot terrorists and who, although from KIM, could not skip the Eulex ramp, is now required to conduct a census of the population in KIM territory?- I'm sorry. Serbs in KIM are slowly tightened around their necks, beaten, tried, choked with tear gas, and the government is only making a few statements to protest. By 2011, as it began, EULEX would not allow Serbs to breathe, let alone list themselves. Also, we have another problem that can interfere with a full census based on this law. You from the ruling coalition, as you announce, should soon adopt the Duke's statute. Just on the basis of the provisions of that statute, someone from the Executive Council may answer you the following day, perhaps Pajtic himself, that a different list will be held in Vojvodina, with a different questionnaire, and perhaps even not implemented until the Vojvodina Assembly decides. Then what are you going to do? Take care of what you do and what powers you give to this statute to the Duke, for it can and can be struck against your head. The reforms you've been telling us about for ten years, especially these reforms in the economy, will appear in the right light right after the 2011 census. Where the section stands – employed, in many cases a line will be drawn, and when you list, list everything, and who in their privatisation robbed the company, and how many times they strike hunger, and how much they owe for electricity, food, medicine, tuition, did they cut off any more fingers to feel sorry for their fate. There's no economy. It was sold out by experts known as the "bulldozer revolution" and workers in Serbia are, unfortunately, self-injured because of your policy. Others camp in front of the presidential building, third strike hunger, fourths sleep on rail tracks, and probably you call it reform. As for the 2011 Bill on the List of Populations, Households and Apartments, we are just about to see what Serbia will be like in two years. We've seen through statistics that the state is no longer processing data from KiM, which is absolutely unacceptable and unconstitutional. The upcoming list will likely face the truth where Serbia is today and in which direction it is heading. This is likely to be the case: a reduction in the number of inhabitants, a reduction in the number of displaced schools in Serbia, a reduction in livestock stock, an increase in unprocessed agricultural land areas, as well as the number of abandoned multi-annual fruit plantations, an increase in the number of young people leaving Serbia, as well as the number of elderly households, and a further reduction in population density in certain regions in Serbia. What is particularly interesting, especially now that every day we listen to stories of government officials about loans of a billion euros, a billion and a half, up to three billion, is the fact that for the upcoming 2011 census, under article 21 of this law, you have already provided, which is simply amazing, in the Serbian budget, from 2010 to 2013, the entire 2.7 billion dinars, or almost 30 million euros. So, Serbia, as megalomaniac as if China, is carrying out a census. More interestingly, 82 million dinars, or almost a million euros, are scheduled to be spent in 2012 and 2013. So, two years after the list was conducted. It seems that the current government, in the era of computer technology and computer updates, has been identified for computers, to add numbers from the list with the help of beans and corn, as we see it takes them two years to sort out the data. Next to your logic, if the Chinese were to carry out the census, if they were to use your method, it would take them 320 years to sort out the data, if it's normal for eight million people to take care of it for two years. If we add another billion and a half dinars to the agricultural list costs, which will be implemented, according to point 2), by the same authorities that carry out and the census, only six months later, the total amount will reach a figure of four billion and two hundred million dinars, or 45,160,000 euros, with 296 million dinars being spent in 2012 and 2013, so two years after the census, to update the data. The agricultural list law will be slightly more said by the SRS MP in the principle debate. I'd just add that the state could have run these two lists at the same time and saved 1.5 billion dinars. If it is known how much savings will be made after the dismissal of thousands of employees in the state administration, and it is about 750 million dinars, it is pointless to explain to citizens how people's money is spent in madness. With the upcoming census, Serbia needs once and for all to release the main asset it uses in its own representation in the world and the EU, that it is a multicultural and multiethnic state, as it has reportedly returned to Croatia, 270,000 Serbs to live there. It's a lie and Serbia has to prove it on this list. For example, let's take the last local elections in Croatia, held on 17 May this year. A total of 27,000 Serbs voted for Serbian parties. The question now arises – where are the 270,000 Serbs who have reportedly returned to Croatia? If we add the fact that the state of Serbia has organised the departure of thousands of Serbs from Serbia to Croatia, the situation is even worse. The number that Croatia is waving before various European and world emissaries was artificially due to the demands of Serbs to issue documents, so that they can receive pensions and address some of their basic human needs for obtaining certain status. Lately, we can often hear statements by individual government officials about the number of Albanians, i.e. Shipara, who took the Serbian passport. In order not to be fooled, they did not do it because they love and worship Serbia, in many cases they need the passport to deal with the activities that are often on the other side of the law. So, when they are arrested, say, by German, French or other police in Europe or in the world, horror headlines in prime terms – Serbian citizens, or even Serbs, caught in human trafficking, drug trafficking, weapons, etc., harming only Serbia. These Shipari, if they want a Serbian passport, should also be written as citizens of Serbia and pay taxes to the state of Serbia, as we all do. This way, Serbia has nothing but damage, no use. Another problem will arise – when the list of agriculture and property returned to the Restitution Act in 2006, to religious communities, which has not yet been fully implemented. The Serbian Orthodox Church was seized after 1945 by large areas of agricultural land and forests. That procedure wasn't fully conducted somewhere, somewhere out of the loop, somewhere for the state administration to stop, but now it's a chance to clear it up. We have before us laws that will be stamped for the past decade, i.e. the period when the authorities in Serbia took over those to whom the stars were led: 'fair','social equality', 'transparency', 'democracy', 'EU', 'Kosovo in the composition of Serbia', etc. When we analyse statistics and data after the census, it will be clear where Serbia is and how far away we are from what was promised to the people in 2000. It is state statistics that plays a role in faithfully presenting the legal situation in society. Therefore, state statistics also suffer pressures to put some percentages and figures in another plan, because it is not pleasant for any government, especially for this one, to make the people realize how many unemployed, how many companies there are in bankruptcy, how hungry they are, how many illiterate, alcoholics, registered drug addicts, what the percentage of corruption is, what citizens think of the government, how much Serbia is in charge, etc. When I say that state statistics can suffer the pressures of the executive government, I mean Article 15 relating to the composition of the Statistics Council. When it is said that, out of 17 members, the government literally places 12 out of the ranks of ministry employees, then it is clear who will control the work of state official statistics. People in state statistics are doing their job fairly and responsibly, but I conclude that by analysing the data processed by official statistics, and they are devastating. I will also make some people hear and see what our perspective is, where we are in the first place, and what this government wants to introduce Serbia to the EU. The question now is how are some official statistics published and publicly published? Many of these processed data will be on the site, while those who are irrelevant will be in prime terms of information emissions from the Public Service and other media houses. The moment the state media starts openly presenting data to citizens of official statistics and when citizens can learn how many people are hungry in Serbia today, how many children live in poverty, because their parents, due to their bright transitions, remain on the street, how many people are left out of work every day, then we can talk about the independence of the Institute. Article 5 mentions the principle of impartiality. We've had opportunities to see this impartiality often, especially when there are some elections, or they're under way, at the Public Service. Data are usually checked, those that can be used, others remain in the sea of other public opinion research, so if anyone finds them, finds them, and so on for years. Here I ask the Government's representatives – why the presentation of official statistics does not respect Article 182. Serbia's constitution, which clearly states that Serbia has two autonomous provinces: Vojvodina and KIM? The Institute website shows that only the Republic of Serbia, central Serbia and Vojvodina are being processed. Now I ask you publicly - where is KIM here? Some data are minimal, let them show anything, let the probe be done, even if it is in some Kosovo-metohic village, but these data must be found in a special section – AP KIM. Also, we remember the Law on Regional Development, which was confidently defended by Mladjan Dinkic, telling us it is not Serbia's regionalisation in the right sense, but it will only be statistical units. Unfortunately, the law has been passed and I fear it is just another link in the plan to break and destroy the Serbian state. The statistical units will now become the city of Belgrade, the western, eastern, central, southern Serbia, next to Vojvodina and KIM, so that one day it will start to be called regions in the right sense of words, with its statutes, congregations, flags, so that someone will remember that it also proclaims an anthems, that it organises a uniform unforming of public service workers throughout the region, etc. From the original idea, I would say, the stories, the confusion of the public, that the only goal of this regionalisation is even development, will be nothing, because neither the government seriously wants to deal with this issue nor can, since there is no money, because the government nowadays unfortunately asks across Europe and the world. Now we're going to do a little bit of statistical data, and some concrete examples we're going to show the citizens of Serbia what brought them the burning of the Assembly, the pounding of pots and the brave kicking of cardboard boxes on October 5, 2000. Take, for example, official statistics on the existence and business of foreign companies in Serbia, i.e. The former republics of SFRY, more specifically, Slovenia and Croatia. The data is from the end of 2007, and the situation is even worse now. So in Serbia, 600 companies from Croatia and Slovenia were operating at the time, and only three Serbian companies were operating in those countries. The three companies are probably also responsible for the famous apology of Tadic to the black country and Mesic and Sanader and to whom not all who have been expelled by more than 300,000 Serbs from their homes, and then brought Croatian tycoons who bought half of Vojvodina for the bagatella and who decided to destroy what little remains of the food industry in Serbia. Let's see what the statistics say for industrial production, we don't know which, in March 2008/2009. A year. So, just for a year, industrial production records a decline of close to 14.2%, or one week, respectively. This is another example of the success of the 2000 Bulldozer Revolution. Serbia's unemployment rate, in October 2008, is down 14%. Based on this statistical data, we can conclude that the workers disobeyed the President of the Republic to keep their jobs with the poles, since no one took it seriously. The question is, where did those promised 200,000 jobs get lost now? They got lost in the direction of free action. I would now return to a very important item, which the Republic Statistics Institute has shown in a very vivid and clear way, and thus only confirm what the SRS has been saying to Serbian citizens long ago. So, the Institute tells us, based on relevant data, that the total foreign trade exchange of the Republic of Serbia for January-March 2009 fell by even 34.6% compared to the same period of the previous year. This is the best proof of the economy we have and how ministers do their jobs. In figures, this looks like this: a billion-six million-euro exporting product was exported, and imported goods worth two billion 682. Statistics, too, says, and that, I repeat, is the image and opportunity of the authorities and of all those ministers and ministries that are full of the success of our economy, agriculture, etc., with how many countries in the world we have achieved surplus in interstate trade. So, out of about 200 countries in the world, Serbia, thanks to experts and other democratic experts, who are eloquent and transparent, European underdog, achieved the result above all expectations and achieved surplus, believe it or not, even with three countries on the entire globe, with Montenegro, Macedonia and BiH. I don't know what their balance is, but it seems their ministers have overcome ours by incompetence. You, gentlemen who rule, with these indicators and numbers, you want to go to Europe. (President: Please bring the sentence to an end. This is one really funny one, but it would sound better – a sad information about our reality.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-04-0.u29556	Mr. Vlatko Ratkovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-04-0.u29557	Thank you, Madam President. I would like to say that statistics, in the broadest sense, are in the difolt, a work involving the collection, processing and distribution of data of general interest. This is, after all, defined and defined in Article 97. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which is also a legal basis for the adoption of this law. In real life, when we want to plan and work, we always have to come from certain parameters, certain relevant data, whether it's some micro-communities, whether it's local self-government, companies, agricultural cooperatives, NGOs. So, always in certain activities, we have to read certain data that is the basis for the operation of all of society's entities. In this it is the importance of statistics, which in one professional, professional, impartial way collects, processes and distributes data of general interest. The proposal for a law on official statistics, a reminder, is based on a master plan adopted in 2002. One of the terms of the master's plan, which Mrs. Minister also spoke of, is that it is necessary to adopt one system-based, roof law, which is precisely this law on official statistics. The second segment concerning this Parliament is the adoption of certain statistical programming actions, and we will do so through the adoption of these other two laws, the agricultural census law and the census law. I must say that the solutions contained in the proposal for these documents are compatible with EU standards. They are largely harmonised with the solutions that exist in EU countries, both with regard to methodology and with regard to the collection of entities participating in the statistics of authorities responsible for the identification, processing and distribution of statistics. It is important to point out that statistics are the main source of information needed to look at the situation and make adequate decisions on various areas of social life. I'll just say a few areas that matter. For example, the economy, urbanism, the protection of the working environment and the environment, the monitoring of demographic movements, as well as many other areas, the area of culture, too. We've adopted a whole series of laws in the previous period in this session. Let's say, a whole set of laws in the field of agriculture, a whole set of laws in the field of environmental science, and in order to implement these laws, to be implemented in practice, we need to have relevant statistical data, which will serve in the implementation of these laws. Perhaps this matter of statistics, censuses, etc., is not so attractive media, is not attractive in some political sense, but this matter is extremely important for the state, for every country, and also for the state of Serbia. It's important for a number of reasons. I'll just count some. It is important for investors, whether domestic or foreign, is important for local self-government, is important for companies. So all entities in economic and cultural life, in general, must have relevant data when planning certain activities in our country. What makes the quality of this law is that it makes a distinction between official statistics and other types of statistics. Public opinion researches, one of the distinguished colleagues spoke about the fact that certain media houses, etc., do not represent official statistics, is something that is in the domain of journalism, journalism, etc. Unofficial statistics can represent research into certain social organisations, professional associations, examples for the sake of, the Medical Society of Serbia or the Chamber of Commerce, etc. Official statistics, unlike unofficial statistics, are the ones regulated by this law and this law clearly norms and bodies that implement statistics, and methodology, and the mutual relationship between these bodies and subjects statistics, therefore, and in production, dissemination and processing of all data. What I'm trying to say is that this law is necessary for our legal order, it is necessary for citizens, it is necessary for all entities involved in economic life, first and foremost, and it is also necessary for our local self-government, municipalities and cities. In this context, one of the programming laws is also a census to be carried out in April 2011. Although colleagues have already talked about it, I'm going to do a little historical digression and remind myself that we have a relatively rich tradition when it comes to population and household demarcation. In 1834, in the Principality of Serbia, so-called a list of people. Between the two world wars, therefore, during the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, we had a census in 1921, 1931. After World War II, we had a census in 1948 and every 10 years since 1961, we had a census. In 2001, for known reasons, i.e. because of lack of budget funds, no census was made, but was made in 2002. So in this decade, from 2002 to 2011, we need to have a clear and accurate overview of all relevant data concerning, firstly, the demographic structures of our country and our society. I will remind you, I think it is important that in the countries of North America, Europe, as well as in Israel, it is also envisaged for the 2011 census, so that both the methodology and method of data collection contained in the proposals for these documents are compatible with the standards and these countries. In the end, ladies and gentlemen, I want to say that statistics and data collected by statistics are not their own goal. They are in the function of certain social entities, as I said, companies, economic operators, in the function of the government of the state authorities, and therefore it is necessary to support the solutions contained in the law on official statistics, as well as in the laws on censuses and agriculture. It's about technical laws, but they're extremely important to our legal system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-04-0.u29558	Thank you. I shall inform you that, pursuant to Article 93(4), they are in accordance with Article 4 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, until the opening of a joint principled search, the application for a word in writing, with the orderly MPs, were submitted by the Parliamentary Group of Minorities, the New Serbia's MPs, the SPS -- the JS, the DSS, G 17 plus, the SNS, the ZES and the SRS. The word has been given by the People's MP Mr. Riza Halimi. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-04-0.u29559	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Minister and Representatives of the Bureau, I will only confirm what we have through the amendments, as the Parliamentary Group of Minorities, submitted when it comes to the 2011 Bill on the List of Populations, Households and Apartments. Of course, it is the basis to seek out this open - language system when pleading according to nationality and native language. On this occasion, I'm going to stick to the problem that we've put forward, and during the debate on the law on maximum employees in local administrations. The maximum number of employees is based precisely on the results of the 2002 census. This is the last list we had, which was the only one that introduced that journalistic newspaper, and under this type of resident citizen, there is not a significant number of our citizens who have stayed abroad for more than a year. Now I see, and these solutions that we have in this set of laws, that everyone, and those who are in the country, and those outside, even citizens of other countries who have been staying for more than a year in our country, still remains the problem of processors. What will the Bureau do when the list is finished? I remember, in 2002, in the Presevo municipality, I already said, the census commission had a record of 48,000 inhabitants of Presevo municipality, and at the end of the year, when the first results were given to the public, it turned out that Presevo municipality had 35,000 inhabitants. The same was true in Bujanovac, one 11,000 less officially published inhabitants and municipalities, so I figure, you saw that the situation was also in a number of other municipalities, and that this is a characteristic of undeveloped municipalities, where it was more massively going abroad during certain periods, to temporary work. As you heard from the discussion of the previous set of laws, it's even a third of the population. So they're like they're gone. In fact, censuses are listed, they're recorded, they're registered, but they don't officially exist. This, as we know, is the most reflected in funding; it is that transfer of regular funds, which has as its main criterion exactly the result of the last official list. The same is now in determining the maximum number of employees in local self-government. Again, it must be taken as a basis, the number of registered residents in a certain municipality, and you have a problem that in 2002 there has been a drastic reduction and number of minority members in Serbia; it is likely that one of the indicators in certain minorities is this departure abroad, to this temporary work. I don't see it in these solutions that are given here, or it's left to the freedom of the processor, in this case, the Bureau of Statistics, to estimate, based on certain parameters or, in general, normative, whether the internationalhills of the domestic ones. I think this situation must finally be explained, because there are direct consequences to certain environments, which, as they don't stand, are unwarranted and have no argument of justification. Why someone should suffer funding because of this officially submitted data, as we see now, and with the allowed number of administrators in local self-government, and probably there are a number of other factors on other grounds where these environments have significant losses. In fact, the point now is whether the issue of processing at this level is resolved, that the additions of this law on official statistics are improved, in practice to resolve these problems, whether it is a matter of the methodology of processing statistics, or whether it is applied in certain other laws, where these negative effects are reflected in certain areas. It is certain that these shortcomings should be addressed. So now that we are discussing this law, it is important to see what to do in this discussion, by adopting amendments and repairs that can possibly be endured by these bill proposals, that this practice in some way improves or that these negativitys do not occur in the next period, because if we have this situation for the next 10 years, then it will very badly reflect the interests of the most underdeveloped municipalities. Loud and clear, these people exist, these people have a lot of relationship with state authorities, with local self-government, and we can't act like they're gone, like they're empty space. In that part, we should see what part of this obligation the Bureau has to do, and what needs to be done through the amendments, to achieve potential positive effects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-04-0.u29560	Thank you. Miss Alexandra Ilic has her word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-04-0.u29561	Thank you. Dear Presidents, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, statistics, as a field of mathematics, deals with the collection, analysis, interpretation, explanation and presentation of data, and that is the basis of every law dealing with statistics. The law lays down a legal framework for the production and supply of data and information, which is also contained in this law on official statistics. The necessity and speed in the adoption of this law stems from our obligation to the IMF. The targets for the Republic of Serbia have been on the IMF site since 1 May 2009, and thus the Republic of Serbia has become part of the general system for the dissemination, or delivery of data. What should be pointed out as the most important? Official statistics provide, on an unbiased basis, numerical and representative data and information on mass economic, demographic and social phenomena and on phenomena in the field of working and living environment for all users. In order to be complete, accurate and without any reservation, these numerical and representative data and information must be based on impartial grounds. If there is no purely professional approach, impartiality and expertise, we cannot talk about representative data and information as explicit facts. It is therefore necessary to pay particular attention to the activities of responsible producers of official statistics in the collection of data relevant for official statistics. The responsible official statistics producer, as a state body or institution, is responsible for the collection, production and publication of official statistics data, and must be depolitised to access the implementation of his obligation, in particular to access the organisation and data collection professionally and objectively. In that sense, I have also submitted an amendment to Article 6. The proposal for a law on official statistics, which will be more detailed when it comes to the discussion of details. I just want to point out that it is not fully clear why Belgrade has been singled out as a special unit of official statistics producers compared to other cities in Serbia. If the City Administration of Belgrade is covered, there is no reason for this special separation in relation to other cities, which, as responsible producers of official statistics, have made a full contribution to the statistical activities by participating in the field. It is not right for other cities, apart from Belgrade, to be in the second plan and fall under other producers of official statistics if the Council for Statistics of the Republic of Serbia puts them on its list, as the Council sets out by this law a list of other responsible producers of official statistics. Statistics is a very powerful scientific discipline. In this case, we should install this mathematical branch through the bill into the lives of all citizens and make it such that the review of data collected from our citizens throughout Serbia at any moment gives an accurate and complete intersection of what we are, which we possess, what is every kind of educational, national, property, work and every other kind of structure that makes Serbia. Simply put, we must have a law that will allow us to see something that is a personal map of Serbia in the beginning of the 21st century. Since data collection and, later, their processing and interpretation are subject to various abuses, we must in no way show no interest in these laws, precisely because of what statistics are, at least it is official, however accurate data it contains, always ready to use them so that someone through their reception is deceived. At this point, when official statistics say with their inexorable dryness that every fifth resident is starving in Serbia and we take some more serious standards, it could be said that there is not enough means to live. Then we cannot calmly observe the official figures being entered and made out of the hunger of people in Serbia by a marketing brand. Especially when we ignore the fact that in Belgrade alone, so much food is thrown daily and destroys just as much with the expiry date, so that, according to official statistics, about 30,000 meals can be prepared daily. Data that will be collected are subject to protection, but should be the source of the search for a strategy as well as in which direction Serbia's policy continues to lead, which resources are stimulated, in which it saves, which have been neglected, and which represent a chance. First of all, I mean the data that will be collected on the list of farms. The most important business branch, for which about 50% of the population is directly or indirectly in Serbia, has received a special census law, but the censusers who will be hired here have a different one, I can say freely, a stricter treatment than those who deal with the census, households and apartments. Both have the same responsibility, the same weight and complexity of work. Those in charge of agriculture are somewhat more difficult, because they are related to travel and going into inaccessible rural areas, and their treatment is different. The different legal provisions are called upon by the legislator, and here we have tried to intervene the amendments. We consider these laws very important, but we also consider control of their implementation extremely important, so we have also proposed amendments that will improve the proposed members if they are accepted. The data collected this way and processed through the methods of official statistics will be very important and will give us all one picture of where Serbia arrived by moving through the troubled times at the end of the 20th and early 21st centuries. We'll know how many of us are out there and how many of us are missing, how much they're growing up, and how much of the future is ahead of us. However, the fact is that these laws are insignificant if they cannot collect accurate and pedantic data, and without clear implementation in Kosovo we will consider them arbitrary, incorrect or partially accurate data. Serbia in this law should demonstrate its indivisibility, and on these laws it is under review. How will the entire population in Kosovo be listed? These bill proposals must respect all that, with best intentions, MPs of different parliamentary groups have proposed and that, after discussions in principle and in particular, they are laws that will allow all Serbian citizens to know that Serbia and Serbian citizens will be scanned after the census, and that the data will be available, protected, clear, accurate and meaningful. We expect the official statistics producer to be consistent with the law that is passed here and from the minister – to fix it with the help of all of us. The aggregated data is an important indicator of the modern Serbia's blood count. I hope that the billmaker will have enough hearing, and we from New Serbia are, as always, at our disposal, with all our constructive proposals. All I have stated is exclusively in order that official statistics would not be the correct objective of incorrect data.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-04-0.u29562	Thank you. The word is made by MP Zoran Bortic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-04-0.u29563	The Honorable President, the Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Minister and representatives of the Ministry, the esteemed fellow MPs, a set of four laws, which we are discussing within the area that regulates the classification of activity and statistics on our country and its material and human resources, is one of the most important assumptions for the standardisation of this area and its normative compliance with European standards. In this sense, the laws which are largely confirming the willingness of the coalition government to meet high requirements in the standardisation of the normative order that the EU has put before us and, therefore, it is good that through the debate in this Parliament we come to the best solutions, which will confirm not only the political maturity of our MPs to respect the generally accepted values and standards, but, more importantly, the debate will contribute to making legislative proposals through amendments more comprehensive and comprehensive. Starting with such a goal, with the intention of contributing as far as possible to better solutions as possible, I will try to look at all legal proposals individually in the shortest lines. The draft labour classification law is a real need, as the existing law was passed since 1996 and has largely been overcome. Since this law was passed, major changes have taken place in our country today in the process of registering companies and entrepreneurs. The registration of economic operators has been regulated in a new way, so the business is no longer carried out by trade courts, nor is it in charge of keeping the register. The registration authority shall be managed by the Agency for Economic Registers, and the Republic Bureau of Statistics shall no longer classify business entities by work. In addition to these changes, the need to revise the very classification of economic operators has been imposed, with a new standard of classification of European action in the EU taken into account before it came into effect in the EU since the beginning of 2008, and this standard represents one of the important resources for equating our operating conditions with the European one. It should be noted that the applicable Act on the Classification of Activity and on the Register of Units of Classification was adopted by the Assembly of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. Under that law, the classification was the subject of the establishment by the legislative authority, because it was prescribed as an integral part of the law, and by its content it should be in the power of the executive authority. Starting with these reasons, the new law will, in new circumstances, normably determine that the Republic of Serbia regulates the classification of action, which will, both in a substantive and structural sense, fully meet the standards set by the European Union in this area. The proposal for a law on official statistics confirms the readiness of the Republic of Serbia to bring this law into line with the current recommendations and legislation of the United Nations and the European Union in the accession process. For this reason, it should be pointed out that the proposal for this law is entirely made up in accordance with the basic principles and provisions of the master plan, which has confirmed that the basic legislation in the field of official statistics should form two laws. First, which is governed at the level of the state by the legal frameworks of the statistical institution and its activities, and the second, special law, which is adopted to implement large statistical actions such as the census of the population, the agricultural list and the second. It is not negligible that the positive court on the proposal for this law was given by Eurostat experts back in 2005, as well as that the director of the Statistical Sector of the United Nations and the European Union participated in its first version. All this confirms the legislator's efforts to bring this important area closer to the statistical standards established in the international community, above all, in the countries of the European Union. Overall, it can be concluded that the law promotes the basic statistical principles on which official statistics are the main source of information needed to look at the situation and to make decisions relevant to the development and management of the economy, the protection of the working and the environment, as well as to monitor demographic trends and other social trends. The 2011 Bill on Census, Households and dwellings regulates one of the most significant and extensive statistical branches at the state level. The census of the population, households and apartments represents both in the world and in the national contexts, the most complex and extensive statistical task. Because the results of this research represent an inescapable and fundamental assumption for planning and development, not only of state policy in the area of economics and planning of even development, but also of the basis for planning all fundamental areas of society and state development. It should not be ignored that Serbia in its recent history has added enormous importance to the implementation of the census and that this area has been thoroughly processed since the far-reaching 1834, which is believed to be the year when it is systemically and by the state, the first organised census. Since then, to date, on the ground of today's Serbia, systemically, in accordance with the highest standards and methodology that was then applied, a census of the population has been made in fixed time periods, first, every five years, and then every 10 years, which is the established standard applied at the international community level. The two world wars in which Serbia participated and in which its population was decimated, and the economy almost completely destroyed, moved those deadlines, and the latest census, which was organised in 2002, instead of a year earlier, was moved due to undefined relations in the then internationally recognised state of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, because Montenegro, as one of the two federal units, demanded that the deadline be moved. All in all, it should be pointed out that the list is planned for 2011 to be the first to be carried out by Serbia as a sovereign state since independence, that is, for the first time as internationally recognised, after World War I. That is why this issue is more than important and therefore this law must and must ensure that all assumptions for the successful implementation of the census are regulated normably, according to the highest standards applicable in the United Nations and in the European Union. Dear People's MPs, compared to those laws that regulate this area, in my deep confidence, the 2011 List of Agriculture Bill is a fundamental assumption that the frameworks are defined systematically and at the level of the Republic of Serbia, and that the real situation in the area of agriculture is seen. This is a prerequisite for the development of our society and our economy in general to come up with exact indicators without which it will not be possible in the right way to develop a strategy of state policy both towards agriculture and the village. In addition, this law is necessary to ensure a comprehensive review of the structural characteristics of national agriculture and to establish a database, internationally comparable and based on key agricultural features. The adoption of this law will create a presumption for the establishment of a statistical register of agricultural holdings, which will provide a framework for agricultural research on a sample of research on the structure of agricultural holdings. In particular, as I have already noted, it is important that the application of this law provides reliable statistical indicators necessary for the planning and development of a sustainable agrarian policy. At the same time, our country will also meet the highly sophisticated standards established in the developed countries of the modern world and provide data to monitor and reach the foreseen Millennium Development Goals. For all things, I would like to point out that the Socialist Party Group of Serbia-Single Serbia, in the voting day, will support all four draft laws. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-04-0.u29564	Thank you, Mr. Bortic. The word is made by Parliamentarian Miroslav Petkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-04-0.u29565	Thank you. Madam President, Mrs Matic, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we are discussing a package of four very important laws and if we were to build a graduation, you will allow me to say that the law on official statistics is probably, in addition to technical law, the most important thing in this package. After all, all the laws passed by the National Assembly are important. Now, some may be less important, some may be a little more important, but what is most important is that all the laws passed by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia must be respected. Some ministries are preparing some drafts, so the government's delivery plan. The government has established a proposal. The bill comes to the National Assembly, then a principle debate is being held on it, and a debate in particular, in which, mainly, opposition MPs try to correct the bill, and then a vote is being held and the President of the Republic brings an order to declare the law. I would remind you that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has made a decision to declare the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia as the most significant act in this country, as well as that it is particularly pleased to pass the most significant law in December, which is the budget law. Of course, I can't separate from the budget law and the budget system law. But let's go back to a very important law on official statistics. I'm going to try to make a parallel of this law with, too, one very important law. In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. 2nd and I think there are 13 definitions that are very important and that define certain areas that this law deals with, and in another important law, Article 2, provides for as many as 60 definitions, of which, unfortunately, many are not respected. If Mrs Dragutinovic were present in the O.R., she would certainly know what law I'm talking about. Also, this law on official statistics, in its 2nd chapter, which provides for the organisation of a system of official statistics, means, who are responsible producers of official statistics, what the Republic Bureau of Statistics does, which are the jobs of the office, provides for the most important tasks that the Institute should do. In Article 31. The law on the budgetary system stands for some deadlines which, unfortunately, are not respected. Statistically, this member of the law was 100% violated. I would remind you that this member of the law foresees that on October 15th, the minister is delivering a draft bill to the government on the budget of the Republic of Serbia. Also, in paragraph 11, this member of the law predicts that on November 1st, the government adopts the draft budget law and delivers it to the National Assembly. By the way, today is November 4, 2009. And to remind you of what happened on December 29th 2008 -- the Budget Law was passed, although it had to be adopted on December 15th. So, with a big delay. That was said by MPs of the Democratic Party of Serbia in a principle debate on 13 July 2009, when we discussed the Law on the Budget System in this home. That's what we said on July 15th, when we spoke in detail, and the President of the Republic gave an order on the declaration of the Budgetary System Act on July 17th. Like all other acts adopted by this congregation, they were to be respected. I am sorry, with all due respect to Mrs Matic, that Minister Dragutinović is not here today; at least if Slobodan Milosavljevic had come, I think he might have given us some answers to our questions. Why am I saying this? My colleagues have so far indicated that statistics show a lot, reveal a lot, hides a lot, but it's mostly about some numbers. When it comes to Mrs Dragutinovic, it's worth billions. For four billion, the budget deficit was breached, and then we heard that it wasn't actually good data, because no more money was spent, but the revenue side was getting weaker. We have always pointed out that it is not a problem to spend what is intended for consumption, that it will certainly be spent, but that the revenue side does not promise and that it will not be filled. Maybe to this day that balance, as she tried to explain to us, was established. Also, statistically speaking, 130 billion is not a small amount of money for the Republic of Serbia, and we heard the other day that you can't see it anywhere in the budget. I thought it could be seen through the vault, but the minister explained in her own way that she had no control over the 130 billion. What is most frightening is the fact that Minister Dragutinovic said she had found the right to go to waste in her ministry and, statistically, Mrs Dragutinovic is right as much as possible. Just to remind you of the problem that before Minister Dragutinovic, the finance minister was Mirko Cvetkovic, who is now Prime Minister. Before him was Mr. Mladjan Dinkic, who is now Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Economy, and before him, Mr. Djelic, also vice-president of the government, Minister of Science. It's a disaster. It's like I call my child and say, "My son, here's your razor, so play in the afternoon." Be as creative as possible, so let's see what you've managed to do tonight, your apartment, your brother, your friends. The statistical law shall also contain the criminal provisions provided for in Article 1(1). 52, 53 and 54. It is clearly stated that a fine of 50 to 100,000 is punishable for the offence of the responsible official statistics producer, unless information is provided by the reporting unit, and a responsible person in the official statistics producer. When we're making a parallel, I'm calling you not a member of 103. The law on the budget system, where there is no finance minister and where there is no Prime Minister. Their responsibility in this article is not foreseen at all. As a result, the DSS Parliamentary Group submitted a proposal to amend and supplement the Budgetary System Act, which clearly determines the responsibility of the Finance Minister if it violates the Law. It would be normal, it would be morally and statistically justified for Mrs Diana Dragutinovic to resign as finance minister and recommend it warmly to her predecessors. After all, we had a chance to see yesterday, when the "ferari" yellow was all broken up and ended up in the mud. Citizens of Serbia, think about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-04-0.u29566	Thank you. National MP Branislav Mitrovica, has a word. Here you go, Mr. Mitrovica.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-04-0.u29567	Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, Mrs Matic, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, when we talk about the law on official statistics, is certainly one of the basic reasons why this law was found in the procedure – harmonisation, harmonisation with EU and UN legislation in this area. What I must say at first is that when reading this law, preparing this speech, I have come into contact with people who do statistics directly on the ground. Their observations are that this is a well done law and that it should be passed as soon as possible, that it will play a significant role in some future period, especially in what awaits us, for some serious statistical situations in the next period. First of all, I'd say why official statistics are important to a society. And when we look at the principles and principles on which official statistics are based, and when we look at only the definition of official statistics, it's clear to us that this is an area that allows us to have one source of information based on which we can look at the situation in an area, and after that serious consideration of the situation, that we make some decisions, which are some important decisions on the various spheres of our life. What are these areas where official statistics have a significant impact on decision-making? It is, primarily, an economy, an environment, a working environment, as well as a monitoring of demographic and other social movements. The law on official statistics itself has its constitutional basis, in Article 97, point 11, which specifies the collection of statistics and other data of general interest. The proposal for a law on official statistics is in full compliance with the basic principles and provisions of the master's plan, which provides that basic legislation in the field of official statistics should form two laws. First, which is governed at the level of the state by the legal framework of the statistical institution and its activities, and second, special law, which is adopted to implement large statistical actions, such as the census and the list of agriculture. I think it's a good thing both of these lists are regulated by special legal solutions, because of the seriousness of the events themselves. Viewed in world scales, censuses, households and apartments, as well as the list of farms, on the one hand, represent the most popular statistical actions, while, on the other hand, they are the most extensive and complex statistical research, both by content and methodological solutions, and by their specific organisation. All this requires the support of the legislative authority, in the light of the adoption of quality legal solutions, and later the creation of conditions for their decadent application. Certainly for someone who uses official statistics as a source of information, first to look at the situation, and later to make some strategic decisions, it's very important who collects these data, how it collects them, how it distributes them, whether these data are compatible with data from the environment. In one word, whether that information is relevant at all. The law defines official statistics based on common standards, official definitions and basic principles, with the following meaning. The principle of relevance means that statistics should satisfy clearly defined information conditions, in line with official statistical tasks. Official statistics shall have the obligation to regularly verify the adequateness of statistical data and to recognise the new needs of users for a specific type of data in a timely manner. The second principle is the principle of bias, which implies that definitions, methods of data collection and processing, as well as their dissemination are determined objectively. Statistical data must be protected from the non-professional influences of any kind. The third principle is the principle of reliability, which is reflected in the fact that activities and methods related to the collection, processing and distribution of statistical data are in line with the applicable professional standards, scientific methods and principles of professional ethics, in order to make the statistical results more credible to reflect observed phenomena. The principle of timelyity means that time limits between data collection, their processing, distribution and delivery to users should be minimal, and that all changes, when it comes to data collection, are up to date entered into statistical registers and databases. The fifth principle is professional independence. This means that for decision-making on definitions, methods of collection, processing and dissemination of data, official statistics are responsible solely for producers of official statistics. The rationality principle refers to the optimal use of all available resources and the reduction of the burden of reporting units, as well as the fact that the amount of work and costs necessary for the collection of statistical data should be proportionate to the importance of results. The principle of consistency means that official statistics should be mutually harmonised in terms of content, terminology and periodicals, as well as to be consistent with internationally recognised concepts, nomenclatures, classifications, definitions and methods, in order to achieve their comparison. The public principle means that all the results of processed and unprocessed data are official statistics, as well as all information on applied methods and data sources used by responsible producers of official statistics, are publicly and simultaneously available to all users. The ninth principle of statistical confidentiality implies data protection relating to an individual statistical unit, regardless of whether they are collected directly, when carrying out official statistical research, or indirectly, from administrative and other sources. The essence of this principle is that responsible producers of official statistics can use individual data exclusively for statistical purposes. The principle of statistical confidentiality does not apply to the data of the public administration authority as statistical units. The statistical data cannot, in accordance with this principle, be used as the basis for the exercise of the right and the creation of the reporting unit obligation. The 10th principle – the use of personal data exclusively for statistical purposes means that the data collected by performing statistical activities to which the provisions on statistical confidentiality can be used exclusively in accordance with this law and with a special law governing the protection of personal data, i.e. the protection of privacy. Before listing these principles, I said that for those who are the data user of official statistics it is very important whether these data are relevant. Of course, with the use and respect of all these principles, these data will be useful and very important for making some strategic decisions. The law defines key operators of activities, more specifically, responsible producers of official statistics, and these are the Republic Bureau of Statistics, the National Bank of Serbia, as well as the City Administration of Belgrade and other responsible producers of official statistics listed in the five-year statistical programme. The integral part of the official statistics system is the Council for Official Statistics of the Republic of Serbia. The Council shall provide expert opinions and shall participate in the follow-up of the proposal relating to the strategy for the development of official statistics, the five-year statistical programme, the changes and additions of that programme and the draft implementation report, the need to implement the list, the revision of main statistical research, infrastructure projects, as well as financial resources for their implementation; the standards and guidelines for the application of the basic principles of official statistics; the draft laws and other legal acts relating to responsible producers or the activities of official statistics. Official statistics are based on a five-year statistical programme, as well as on annual implementation plans. The program is brought by the National Assembly and the government plan. This law also regulates how data are processed and stored, as well as how they are made available to potential users. As for the laws on censuses, households and apartments and on the list of farms, it is clear that these are laws that regulate very complex statistical activities and it is good that each of these activities is regulated by a special law. However, it is clear that these laws form a whole and that the law on official statistics is the basis and the prerequisite for these activities that are expected to be implemented successfully in 2011. In the end, I want, as an example, to provide data on official statistics concerning the city of Užica and the entire Zlatibor district. In the period from 1991 to 2002, the number of people in Zlatibor County decreased by 19074. The second information I want to present is the information that is warning her, which is that under 10% of the young people from the Zlatibor County who go to school at large university centres and who are not returning to continue their lives in their city or their municipality. Both of these figures concern demographic movements and warn us that a significant number of the Zlatibor County people are looking for a way and a place to live a better life. What is the role of this government, the next government, is to provide better conditions for these people to stay in areas where they used to live. One of the main reasons why these people leave their homes is the lack of jobs, the lack of work. We listen a lot, both in the previous period and today, and hopefully in the next period, it is necessary to provide as many investors as possible to provide new jobs in the Zlatibor County and in other districts. However, one of the main reasons investors do not want to invest in the area is bad traffic infrastructure. The first is building a highway from Belgrade to the southern Adriatic, as investors have no interest in investing in a place 200km from the highway, 200km from the waterway, so it is an interest for all of us to start the project as soon as possible. In addition to these two, let me say, negative data from official statistics, I'm going to say two positive figures. It concerns, firstly, the volume of the region's external trade exchange in 2008, which reached a level of $1218m, up from the same period in 2007, which accounts for an increase of 8.5%. The rate of export growth in the Zlatibor County is far above the rate of import growth, so a positive balance during this period was 121 million US dollars. The dominant place in the foreign trade trade has the town of Užice, whose participation is 71% and in the structure of exports, the most represented sectors of metal production, metal products, food production, dedicated industry products, textiles and textile products. The most exports from the Užica region to Germany, Italy, Montenegro, Slovenia and BiH were made. The second data, concerning the tourism area, and it is known that Zlatibor County has great tourist potential, is that 248,751 tourists visited the tourist destination in Zlatibor County in 2008, while the number of overnight stays was 948,081, close to a million nights. Contrary to the bad ones, let me say, negative data, we have two good data. These are two branches that can develop even more and that can help those negative data to be remedied. However, both the people and managers who run large systems, who contributed to such good results both in the tourism and in the area, firstly, metal processing, point out the first plan of poor infrastructure, traffic infrastructure, and that the main problem of the entire Zlatibor district is, again, building the highway of Belgrade - South Adriatic. It is clear that these data are official statistics, as I said, on the one hand, warning, and, on the other hand, encouraging. What is my obligation is to pass on today's message to 313.396 residents, which is the official number of citizens of the Zlatibor district, who expect that all those who make a decision on the highway route, or alternative access routes of the highway, will take into account these and many other data of official statistics, but first the fact that the future of the entire county, the whole region, of all inhabitants, is first of all our children, related to the construction of the Belgrade highway -- the South Adriatic. In voting day, the MP group will support this set of laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-04-0.u29568	Thank you, Mr. Mitrovica. The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-04-0.u29569	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respecting the tradition of making a census, which has existed in Serbia since 1834, as well as the dynamics of making a census, when, in some turbulent, historic events in which Serbia was located, these lists have been carried out every five and every ten years, since the end of the First World War, and to this day, I cannot point out all the shortcomings of this proposal for a census law, households and dwellings foreseen for 2011. In Article 4 of this proposal for a law, in the person data, you provided that persons covered by the list of clear births and the number of live births and the age of their birth. That's okay, but what about the kids who are adopted or are in foster families? Even more difficult, this bill of law didn't provide for a list of children who were without parental ageing. The social protection institutions in Serbia currently have about 1,400 children without parental ageing and it is not a small population that anyone in this country should forget and ignore it. About 120 children are adopted annually, while the number of potential adoptors is even three times higher. Couples who decide to adopt face a long wait and a demanding bureaucratic procedure. Parliament Club Forward Serbia - SNS has tried to convince lawmakers that the census procedure should include children without parental ageing, as equal factors of our society, with the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, i.e. protection should play a significant role. In Article 5(1), you have set out which data in households the censusors will collect on the ground. There is also the name of the person in charge of the household, family and family composition of the household, the name of the settlement, street and home number where the household is inhabited, the type of household and the basis for which the household is used. All of this would be fine, however, there are a large number of settlements that have the same name in Serbia and are located in different parts of Serbia. I'll give you some examples. Alexandrovac exists in Braničevski and Borski County and, of course, the most famous is Alexandrovac parish, in the Rasin Management District. Or, Guberevac in Jablanic and the Shumadian Management District, or the settlement of Apple, next to Pančev, but also in the Zlatibor Management District. When using the material obtained by the census in this way, there will be great confusion if you do not accept the SNS amendment, which introduces a basic technical detail, which is that there is also a postal number next to the name of the settlement, which will make a clear differentiation of the settlements. In Article 12, you have laid down in which cases the Ministry of Defence organises and conducts a list of military and civilian persons and the list refers to persons who live in barracks, military schools and similar military institutions at the time of the census, as well as a list of persons serving the military term. However, you have not predicted anywhere, and I will remind you that you have passed the Law on the participation of members of the Serbian Army in multinational forces, who will and in any way execute a list of members of the Serbian Army, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, who by 2011, when the time for the census is, I am sure, will send to some battlefields such as Iraq or Afghanistan. Is it possible for you to consider these people in the beginning to be too numerous and unnecessary? And the wording you gave in article 26 is inappropriate, where you obliged the censusors to keep the data collected as a secret. It is also a secret when children at school trust themselves who likes and store that information, and in serious countries, Serbia, unfortunately, is not, and in serious laws, this bill is definitely not, there is a classification of classified information to state secrets, top secret and internal. Do you, with this loose formulation, make the ground so that the collected data, in addition to the Republic Bureau of Statistics, ends up in individual parties' headquarters in power, in order to prepare as best you can for the upcoming elections? Articles 29, 30 and 31 The draft legislation on the census, households and dwellings in 2011, in criminal provisions, by the amounts of penalties, has identified a natural person covered by the list, which can only once not give the requested data, or that the wrong data, with censuses that can in large numbers of cases type the wrong data. You will punish 20 to 50,000 dinars each and the other, which is inappropriate, because the responsibilities of the censusors are incomparably greater. Now we get to what's most important. In Article 10 of this proposal for a law, you provided that the list committees consist of at least five members. I think that the definition of "the smallest" is very broad and, at the very least, rude, because if you adopt such a bill, it will mean that you can form a list committee of 20-30 members. In this way you needlessly waste the money of citizens of the Republic of Serbia, which is not in the budget for much more fundamental things. I think it is also one of the hidden intentions of this bill, because you predicted that in 2011, you would perform and control field data collection of more than 60,000 participants, of which 55,000 censusors, including reserve censusors, 6,500 municipal instructors, 1,500 members of the list committees, 200 republican inspectors and about 50 supervisors. Why, Madam Minister, for the 2011 census, do you need more than 60,000 censusors, i.e. participants, if the latest census, which was made in Serbia in 2002, was carried out with 40,000 censusors and 4,000 municipal instructors? Has Serbia's territory increased by a third? Do we have a 30% economic growth in these ten years, so you need 30% more censusors? That this is another senseless waste of Serbia's citizens' money is a 2002 partnership, which cost 900,000 dinars, at the middle of the National Bank of Serbia's mid-term of 1 June 2002, amounted to 29,000,000 German marks at that time, while for the 2011 census, according to the members of the 20th and 21st draft of the law, for the costs, i.e. to finance the activities of the Republic Geodetic Institute and the Republic Statistics Institute, you predicted to spend a total of 2,896,327,900 dinars, which is 31m euros per current course. What are the extraordinary lists of jobs you will spend more than twice as much money on, and for what will you employ 30% more censusors than for a list of ten years ago? I think that, Madam Minister, you have the responsibility of answering these questions both for the citizens of Serbia and for our MPs. What I was hoping to discuss today was the very system of gathering information, whether it will be done in the old and very expensive principle – from door to door, or by mail. In the past, censuses were dominated by censuses directly authorized by the state, while today there is a method of self-recording, where the resident fills out the questionnaire and sends it by mail or by electronic means to the statistical institution that conducts the list. In the United States, this list has been conducted since 1970, and in Canada since 1971, only Serbia seems to be unable to do so. In this method, the person chooses whether to fill out a shorter or longer list form. Although many opt for a shortened form, the data derived from longer large-state forms represent a statistically relevant weight for the implementation of generalisation for the whole population. This method is highly fueled by the process itself of carrying out the list. If you had now, applying the principle of self-recording, come before the citizens of Serbia and invited them to co-operate, which is why the state of Serbia will save 30m euros, I am sure you would have come across the approval and support of all the structures of our society. You had another option, which you have been defining more and more recently, which is a method of punishment, just as Minister Dulic announced a few days ago, that all citizens who do not enter the legalisation process will have to pay unsustainable and multiple higher property taxes. It's okay for illegal commercial facilities, or buildings built for the market, but what about millions of rural buildings, for which there was no legal regulation at the time of construction, so now they're being held illegal? I believe that the bill on the census is not in the spirit of saving, but rather wasteful, in the details of the missing and unspeakable, and that is why in the election day MPs of the Progressive Group, Serbia-SNS will vote against this bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-04-0.u29570	Thank you. The word is Mr. Mikhailo Puric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-04-0.u29571	Dear Presidents of the Assembly, the Honorable Minister, honourable MPs, we have four proposals for laws that are very important, which are proposals for a law on classification of activity, on official statistics, on censuses, households and apartments in 2011 and on the list of agriculture in 2011. In my presentation, I will refer most to the 2011 Bill on the List of Populations, Households and Apartments. I want, first of all, to say that the census is the most common and complex statistical research, both by content and methodological solutions, and by its specific organisation. Listing the population in our country has a very long tradition. Lists have been made every five years, so they still have outstanding historical significance today. In the period between the two world wars, only two censuses were made, in 1921 and 1931. After World War II, in 1948, the first short census was made, and in 1953, the first complete post-war census, starting in 1961, was established on the basis of UN recommendations, a 10-year periodical of implementation of the census. The latest census in Serbia was conducted in 2002. First of all, I would like to say that Article 1 of the Law lays down a legal framework, which defines the content, preparation, organisation and implementation of the list of population, households and dwellings in the Republic of Serbia in 2011. The census shall be conducted between 1 and 15 April 2011. The 2011 census will establish a number of conditions and the most important characteristics of families, agricultural land and buildings. We will receive significant data on the number and territorial deployment of nursing households, as well as on the size and degree of exploitation of the agricultural funds in their possession. The 2011 List of Populations, Households and Apartments Act, on the way after World War II, will collect data on the functional ability of a person to perform daily activities, creating conditions for the creation of a single database for disabled persons, which is very important. One of the essential objectives of the census will be the identification of the population, households and dwellings with the proposal for a agricultural list law. I note that our list of farms was last implemented back in 1960. One of the important goals is to bring the content and methodology of the census to an optimal extent into line with the recommendations of international statistical organisations, to ensure that the results of the census are internationally comparable, without prejudice to the comparison of the 2011 census data with the data of the previous census in Serbia. By adopting the law, the state of Serbia in a unique way legally regulates the rights and obligations of the ministry and other bodies and organisations regarding the preparation, organisation and implementation of the census. What is important is that the Republic Bureau of Statistics plays a key role in all phases of carrying out the census. The list of preparations, organizes and implements the RZS, as a direct institution of activities in preparation organised in the implementation of the census on the entire territory of the Republic of Serbia, establishes unique methodological solutions and standards, all in order to obtain as much content and valid data as possible. In Article 2. The bill defines the units that are included in the list and are, above all, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, foreign citizens, persons without citizenship who have residence in the Republic of Serbia, as well as households and persons referred to in Article 1. Proposal for a law in Article 2, apartments and other inhabited rooms. In Article 10. The bill also defines the affairs of the census commissions, and it is said that the census commissions are managing the preparation, organisation and implementation of the census on the territory of municipalities, cities and the city of Belgrade. The Census Commissions are responsible for taking the necessary measures in a timely manner to ensure all preparations for the census and to organise a quality census. The census committees consist, as is said, of at least five members. With the adoption of the census law, and then with the 2011 census results, we will get extremely significant not only from the aspect of monitoring the complex demographic, socio-economic frameworks of our population, but also from the aspect of monitoring the effectiveness of the realisation of the statistical objectives adopted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. As for the proposal for a agricultural list law, I would like to point out that, on the road to EU accession, Serbia's agriculture needs to adapt to a series of EU rules and standards, which will greatly change the situation in our agriculture. The set of laws, rules and procedures to be adopted in agriculture includes legal standards, common agricultural policy and structural funds. The basic prerequisite for the start of adaptation is the implementation of a full list of agriculture in 2011. Data obtained by the census will allow a review of the situation in the Republic of Serbia at national, local level and at the level of land. The list of farms, together with regular surveys on the sample, will be the backbone of the system of agricultural statistics. The upcoming list of agriculture, which must be fully harmonised with world standards and recommendations, will provide data that will be the basis for all future surveys of agriculture statistics in the Republic of Serbia. I would like to say that the adoption of these four laws will create conditions for better and faster development of the Republic of Serbia and representatives of the ZES will vote in favour of these draft laws in the day of voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-04-0.u29572	Thank you. The People's Messenger Dobrislav Prelic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-04-0.u29573	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first I will address Mrs Matic, I hope she will not take anything personal, but this is another example of how government representatives refer to the laws that come to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. With all due respect, I'm going to dedicate my presentation today to the agricultural list law. I don't think you could really answer everything I want to say and what I think is very important, first of all, for the citizens of Serbia. But, well, we saw the day before yesterday, when Minister Dinkic and Minister Markovic appeared here and when they left afterwards, so the session was interrupted. It speaks enough of the seriousness of ministers when they are to defend the laws that come into the assembly procedure. Madam Minister, first we'll start with the draft population list law. Article 7 states: data on agricultural holdings, families and buildings, and in the agricultural list law, Article 2, says: coordination of activities between the census and the list of farms should contribute to savings in financial resources, as well as to increasing the usefulness of data in these two lists. I want to point out how contradictory you are and how you are not paying attention to the laws that you are delivering to the National Assembly; you are probably copying them from your employers. What is the principled position of the SRS, these are the funds provided for by the agricultural list law, as well as by the census and household law. When all of this is provided for in Article 7, why do you need this in Article 2 of the Agricultural List Act, especially a billion and 500 million that you have foreseen for these purposes? This is another proof that you are archiving taxpayers' funds and that, which is recognizable when it comes to you, at least take care of the citizens of Serbia. You've been characterized, in these nine years, literally, by the destruction of our economy. Now it's agriculture. You have shown this unequivocally, first of all, clearly made it clear that the finance minister, more with the 2008 budget rebalance, when she said – why won't anyone give up the subsidies? In 2008, when subsidies are questionable, compared to the previous year, approximately one third is paid to our farmers. You did this in a cunning and perfiduous way, where you later made regulations that agricultural pensioners could only achieve 30% of subsidies, and non-commercial land - not even that miserable aid of 40,000 dinars, which they had at their annual level, without talking about how much farm-based land they simply didn't get into this system and people didn't get subsidies. I remind you that in 2007, over a billion dinars were paid by people who were renting land, who recorded these parcels and made subsidies of 12,000 dinars per hectare. The country was leased at the initial prices of 7,000 and 8,000 dinars. So they're starting to be in the plus. These people will also be easily covered by this list of farms and you will easily execute the list of farms, because five tycoons bought 70% of the farmland in Vojvodina. You know how they bought it? They usually bought in May and June, when production was based, without the dinar investment, plus what I said, but they were probably people who had to adequately return to you, first of all, in election campaigns. What's very important is that in the election campaigns, many ministers have been going through our villages. They went around the stables, the facilities, some ministers couldn't even tell the difference between a cow and a bull. They promised hills and valleys to help agriculture. What is a fact and what we should believe is a list made up by the Republic Statistics Institute, a list of the first 10 export products Serbia has earned most from. Among the 10 products is raspberries, but it is one tradition, a long number of years, and 19,000,000 dollars, Serbia has earned there. The sixth place is corn, where Serbia earned $16,000, and we are now wondering where the fruit, vegetables, meat, milk is, etc. What's a little bit of an eyelash is that in the eighth place, believe it or not, gentlemen of the people's MPs and respected citizens of Serbia, hulahop socks, where Serbia earned $10,000. A nice recommendation for our farmers to put into the stables a few machines and start producing hulahop socks, because it's obvious that there's no excuse from agriculture, and the way this ministry runs agriculture, and, of course, your predecessors, it leads to the total destruction of our agrarian and our village. What I would like to point out is that every government characterises the work of the previous period; our history remembers everything, it will write absolutely about everything. She wrote about Emperor Lazar, Obilić, Josip Broz, about Vuk Brankovic, the traitor, the writer and the period of your rule, will write about what Zoran Djindjic said – take Vojislav Seselj from Serbia and don't return him again, but he will also write that Prof. Vojislav Seselj in The Hague is writing the pages of Serbian history in gold letters. Be sure of that, and we will try to present to our citizens what your intentions are and where you are taking Serbia in this little time that you have provided for this Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-04-0.u29574	Mr. Gjorge Milicevic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-04-0.u29575	The Honorable Madam Chairman, the Honorable Ministers, the Honorable Representatives of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, when it comes to the need for the adoption and adoption of the law on official statistics, I would like to say, as has already been said, that the current law was passed in 1982 and that so far there have been extremely many changes, both in terms of economic operators, and in terms of state bodies, competent authorities and competent institutions. On the other hand, it is very important that both this and every other legislative proposal that we are discussing in the Republic of Parliament be put on hold with UN and EU legal legislation. Of course, the necessity of adopting the proposal is also the fact that official statistics are one of the key sources of information for making very important decisions from different spheres of life. I would like to say that the proposed law is as good as we said in the opening statement and as established by the authorised representative of the Parliament Club. The proposed legal solutions guarantee the protection of data providers' rights and statistical units. The basis for obtaining the most significant statistical indicators is created, and we really want to believe, what has been said many times so far, that the adoption of this legislative proposal will allow for the dynamic and correct development of official statistics. These legal proposals are very clearly defined producers of official statistics, and in a certain way relations between manufacturers and data providers have been arranged. When it comes to responsible producers of official statistics, as it is said, they play a key role, as well as the Republic Bureau of Statistics, which is independent and independent in performing statistical activities, which organises statistical units outside the headquarters of the Institute, as specified in Article 7 of this legislative proposal. Official statistical activities are based on a five-year programme, which brings the Republic Assembly, and one-year plans, brought by the RS government. In addition to the Republic Statistics Institute, the responsible statistical data producers are, among other things, the National Bank of Serbia for Belgrade – the City Administration, but also other responsible producers of official statistics listed in the five-year statistical programme, as specified in Article 6 of this legislative proposal. The 2011 Bill on Census, Households and dwellings sets out the legal framework, content, preparation and organisation of the census in Serbia. The obligations of the national authorities and other organisations participating in the list, as well as the obligations and duties of the data providers, persons performing the work of the census, are very clearly established, then, the publication of the results, the financing of the census, which is carried out in the period from 1 to 15 April 2011 and which will be organised and implemented by the Republic Statistics Office. By supporting this legislative proposal, we want to support the goal that is to be achieved through the adoption of this law, to uniformly regulate the rights and obligations of the Ministry and other bodies and organisations when it comes to the preparation, organisation and implementation of the census. We believe it is extremely important that for the first time since World War II data will be collected on the functional ability of the person to perform daily activities, which will form a unique database of people with disabilities. The adoption of the agricultural census law in 2011, will allow for the first time since 1960 to create a comprehensive list of domestic agrarians, i.e. to create a real insight into the real state of Serbia's agricultural potential, i.e. to record the structure of total agricultural production, which is of paramount importance. That is, among other things, one of the preconditions for Serbia to use EU funds intended for agriculture. On the way to European integration, or EU accession, our agriculture must adapt to EU standards. This implies the introduction of a number of statistical indicators in agriculture statistics, and the basic prerequisite for successful adaptation is to implement a complete list of agriculture. The list is organised and implemented by the Republic Bureau of Statistics, which will be supported by the Ministry of Agriculture. In the light of the legislative proposal, the objectives of the list are very precise. I would like to mention just some, and I end up – to record the actual state, how much farmy land there is, planted cultures. Serbia will receive certain stimuli quotas based on the list of agriculture. Among other things, the objective is to provide statistics necessary for the development of a sustainable national agrarian policy and for the creation of an internationally comparable database based on key agricultural features. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-04-0.u29576	Thank you. Now we'll have a break by 3:00, and then we'll get Mr. Milan Dimitrijevic's word. (Employer Dimitrijevic asks for a word. You wanted to do it now? Okay, it's already two minutes to, or there's no more time.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-04-0.u29577	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session's work in the afternoon, in the debate in the order of the MPs, and according to the application for a word in the joint principled search on the proposals of the law from the point. 13, 14, 15 and 16 of the agenda. The word has a National MP Milan Dimitrijevic. National MP Zoran Nikolic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-04-0.u29578	Article 104. It is not correct to continue the debate at all if there is no minister here, who is in charge of the government, is here to monitor the presentations of MPs. I also call on the practice so far, that we were still interrupting the sessions, that we did not start and continue our work until the minister arrived in the O.R.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-04-0.u29579	Thank you. There's no breach of the Rules of Procedure. The minister was present and she, like any authorised representative of the government, has the right to brief breaks and short exits during the session. The word has Milan Dimitrijevic. After him, National MP Stojanka Petkovic. Do you want to talk about a new injury to the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-04-0.u29580	Look, I agree that everyone has a right to a break, but the break has just been an hour. Now it's 15 hours and six, seven minutes, never mind.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-04-0.u29581	People's MP, I warn you that, as a National MP who is in the course of a session where the rules of our Rules of Procedure rule rule rule rule, you must respect the provision that you cannot stress the same injury twice.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-04-0.u29582	Just explain to me, by what rule can we start a debate without a minister? What's a break that lasts so long, and where is the minister in charge of these agenda points anyway? You owe it to the MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-04-0.u29583	People's MP, thank you. This second announcement, as you and I know, is an easy abuse of words. Please don't do this. We don't start the debate, we start the debate today in the afternoon. This is a continuation of the debate and the short absences of authorised representatives are understood. Ministers also have obligations with the media and obligations they perform in parallel with the session. In cases where we've been informed that the government has no proposings, then, of course, there's no sitting. The government had a representative, he still has one, so there's no reason not to continue the debate, especially since there are other authorised representatives invited to the session. The word has been issued by MP Milan Dimitrijevic, followed by National MP Stojanka Petkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-04-0.u29584	Thank you, Madam Vice President, but before I speak, I will only talk about the proposal for a law on official statistics, about what is related to statistics in health care, to say something. Lately, it's really been happening that the government's representatives, when it's being discussed and when there's a debate on the laws, are not present in the O.R. Last Thursday, when the session was dedicated to government issues, the session began at 16 hours and 15 minutes instead of at 16 hours. We finished it right on time, in a minute until 7:00. It happened that some MPs from the parliamentary groups had no chance at all to ask certain questions to the government, which were very current and very important at the time. Okay, that's manners. I think it's enough said in my opening statement, as well as in Mr Zoran Nikolic's exposure. That's what Serbia's public will assess. I'll talk about the proposal for a law on official statistics, about that section on statistics in health care. I'm really sorry that Mrs. Minister isn't here, because I think that the validity of these data is very important, for several reasons, and that is particularly true of the statistics in the field of health. When you have an unsettled area, you can't make the right decisions, you can't plan correctly, you don't make good investment decisions. Then you're in debt wrongly, you're misinvesting, and you're not solving key problems that affect the largest number of Serbian citizens. Let's start in a row. We have representatives of the Republic Bureau of Statistics and I'm going to ask a direct question. Is there anything on your site that is national and health work? Given your website, I haven't found that kind of information. I found a bill for agriculture, energy, construction, and health care. Why is this important? It's important because when you don't have that information, then you're facing a series of misinformation in public. Serbia's public has been polluting for a long time how much spending in Serbia's health is, in terms of gross national income. Mrs. Svetlana Vukajlovic, director of the Republic Health Insurance Institute, says it is 6% of gross national income. After that, the health minister comes out and says it is 8.2% of gross national income. To make things more complicated and to be a complete confusion in the area, the World Bank, Mr. Dillinger, appeared with information at the Media Centre, that this consumption is 10.5% of gross national income. The simple fact is, if the Director of the Republic Health Insurance Institute says it is 6%, and the World Bank expert says it is 10.5%, the 5.5% difference. One percent of gross national income is 300m euros. Multiply that times five, and you'll get an impressive number. There are other kinds of problems. The Director of the Republic Health Insurance Office called, when it published that information, that it was a source from the OECD website. By checking that site, you'll see that there's no such information on that site. Are we even a member of the OECD? Not that I know of. What do I mean? It's about a rough manipulation of Serbian citizens. Has the state of Serbia suffered any damage, given such harsh manipulation? Is there a responsibility in this country for that kind of manipulation? Why in the public of Serbia operate with three different figures? When you don't have valid information and you don't know what the real situation is in one system, then you can't even plan, then you don't know what state the system is in. Another example that I will give you relates to an article on various data and statistics in relation to maternity mortality. One piece of information is provided by the City Public Health Institute of Belgrade and the other by the Public Health Institute of Batut. You see, again, two different types of data, again one big unknown in the public of Serbia, we still don't know the true state of things. The third information that I will give you concerns what very little is discussed in Serbia, which is data on traumas in Serbia. I'm talking about car accidents, how much our society costs everything that's going on. There is a very skilled manipulation, and these costs exceed a figure of over a billion euros. The key to these problems is that there are really enough manipulations in this society and that it is high time to tell this people the truth. When you don't know the real situation, you take credit. Then you're in debt, then you don't know what you're investing in. I'll give you another example of health care. You are certainly familiar with the document made by the World Bank, it reads 'How to do less', and there is a segment that refers to health care. And the World Bank says our health care is too wide-ranging. What's the message? That there will be health layoffs, that we have a system that we don't know what the number of employees in it is, is that 105,000, 108, 110.00 or more. In view of this information, the assembly majority voted 400m euros this year to build four clinical-patient centres. Now someone's wrong. Either the World Bank, which says our health care is too wide-ranging, or the government, which says you need to take credit and build a new one. What's the truth? When you don't have such official statistics, when you have different kinds of information, then you don't know where you travel. It seems to me to me that under this kind of power is the fate of both this country and this people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-04-0.u29585	The word has a folk MP Stojanka Petkovic, followed by MP Zoran Masic. I'm just asking you to sign up. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-04-0.u29586	The Honorable Presidency, distinguished government representatives, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, draft legislation on censuses, households and apartments, organises the preparation, organisation and implementation of the census in the Republic of Serbia from 1 April 2011 to 15 April 2011. All units of the list, faces, households and apartments will be listed according to the state of the so-called. the critical moment of the census, i.e. on 31 March 2011 at 24 hours. List of preparations, organizes and implements the Republic Bureau of Statistics. The Republic Statistics Institute, as a direct institution of activities in preparation, organisation and implementation of lists throughout the territory of the Republic of Serbia, is concerned about identifying unique methodological solutions and standards, with a view to obtaining as much content and valid data as possible, which will be compatible not only with the results of previous lists carried out on Serbia's territory, but also with data from lists of other countries, which are also collected in accordance with international recommendations. In this respect, the Republic Statistics Institute will draw up methodological instructions to identify the definitions of all units of the list and their characteristics, as well as concrete explanations for the collection, control and encryption of collected data, establish unique standards, classifications and nomenclatures, develop unique programmes for the introduction, control and correction of errors in the census, a unique tabling and publication programme of the results of the list of national interest, as well as a tableing programme for the purposes of international institutional organisations of the UN, Eurostat, UNESCO, UNESCO, UN Habitat. In addition, the Republic Bureau of Statistics shall provide information on the importance and objectives of the census, as well as on the time and manner of its implementation, performance and distribution of the required number of basic and auxiliary forms, instructions and other methodological instruments. It shall provide instructions for the organisation and execution of the list, which shall specify in detail the tasks of all direct participants of the list, shall draw up a pre-calculation of the costs of the list, with the exception of the costs provided for in Article 20 of this Act, and shall schedule financial resources to the list committees, process the collected list of data, and shall take particular care to publish the first and final results of the list of interests for the Republic, as well as on the protection, preservation and archiving of the list building. The Republic Bureau of Statistics, starting from its coordination role, also cooperates with other republican authorities and organisations, as well as with local self-government units, on the preparation, organisation and implementation of the list. As after previous censuses, the Republic Bureau of Statistics, in co-operation with individual scientific institutes and higher education institutions, will organise work on making scientific and professional studies based on the final results of the 2011 census. Funding funds for the census are provided in the budget of the Republic of Serbia, and the bill states that, due to complexity, size and years of work on the preparation, organisation and execution of the census, funds are provided in the budget for each year separately, in the period from 2010 to 2013, and are transferred to the Republic Bureau for Statistics and the Republic Geodetic Office. With computer data processing on the list that is already near the end, we will learn a lot of important data that will give a picture of Serbia at the beginning of the 21st century. We believe there will be little in common with the Serbs 11 years ago, when the last census was made, then, at the level of the former SRJ. When were the first lists made? The first censuses in Europe were made in the 18th century, Italy and Austria. By expanding statistics as science, in the 19th century it began to be applied in a number of countries, including Serbia. The censuses served most for the country's fiscal needs. In the Principality of Serbia, censusing was initiated by the order of Prince Milos. Since the first general census in 1834, since the early 1970s, there have been eight. The census made in 1834 included the entire population of Serbia, regardless of gender and age, and was carried out in all inhabited areas. Not only are Turks and gypsies listed. According to the census, Serbia had 659,624 residents. If the number is added to it by Romanians, Turks, gypsies and Jews, it turns out that 668,624 lived in the Principality. The list that was made in the days of Prince Michael, 1863, has a lot of similarities with today's. Most of all, because of the concern that the data will be used for new tax burdens, but also the same differences, Serbia then had the largest population growth in Europe. In 1863, Serbia had 1,138,405 inhabitants. Compared to the first official census, the population increased by 440,213 residents in three decades. Compared to other, larger and more advanced countries in Europe, Serbia had the highest rate of population growth between 1837 and 1874. Belgrade was then the most human town, with, say, 14,760 residents, Požarevac – 6,062, Sabac – 5,909, Kragujevac – 4,879 etc. Tax or fear of him also marked this census of population and property. Statistics have repeatedly mentioned that the data received will only be used for statistical purposes. They assured the suspects that the data had nothing to do with the police, the state's security, or the taxpayers. The action also included NGOs, whether rightfully disputing certain provisions of the census law, criticising questionnaires and formulating issues, noting that they sometimes go into human rights, privacy and minority rights. The greatest resemblance is to cover up the property. Slobodan Jovanovic, in his book "The Second Government of Milos and Mihail", wrote that the peasants hid their property in the best way, as well as that the municipal assessors accepted the concealment of the property because there were reasonable doubts that among all members of the same municipality there was a silent agreement to disrupt the application of the tax. At the time, Finance Minister Kosta Cukic, who was preparing to introduce tax reforms after the census, discouraged and disappointed, raised his hands from the big deal, as he then only limited himself to small measures, which only help him to put an end to the end. The conclusion would be that this tax reform, which wanted to introduce a new, progressive and developed country-wide tax system, failed, after all, as well as a number of reforms initiated during the days of the government of Prince Mikhail Obrenovic. Three years later, according to the new census, Serbia had 1,215,576 residents. Agriculture was engaged in 1,094,963, mining – 1,065, craft – 64,662, trade – 18,732, in health care, 307, which was done by doctors, as pharmacists, midwives; literature and fine skills by 359 Serbian residents, while teaching was attended by a total of 1,584 educational workers. On average, each resident owned a property worth 33 ducats. Dear MPs, I deliberately volunteered to explain this law, to show both the demographic picture of Kosovo and Metohija, the space where I came from, and to show how the Serbian outflow from KIM flowed. The demographic image of KIM has changed several times in the last century. Prior to that, during the five-year Turkish occupation, various methods, the Turks had emigrated Orthodox Serbs and Montenegrins and settled Muslims from Albanian mountains to KIM. A very important figure – in 1929, there were 61% of Serbs and 39% of the population of all other nationalities in KIM. After defeating the Kingdom of Yugoslavia in 1941, Kosovo is occupied by Italians and the idea of a great Albania is mentioned for the first time. The Serbs, under pressure from Albanian fascists and occupation authorities, were forced to leave Cosmet. In parallel, Albanians, both from Albania and from Turkey and some of the European countries where Albanian political immigration lived, were inhabited in Kosovo. The occupation authorities abolished the agricultural reform from the period of the Kingdom of Yugoslavia and the country in Kosovo was received exclusively by Albanians from Albania. Only during World War II, more than 100,000 Serbs were expelled from Kosovo, and about the same number of Albanians were inhabited on their property. After World War II, the communist regime of the SFRY passed a law prohibiting refugee Serbian families from returning to their homes. Between 1968 and 1988, 700 seats in Kosovo become completely ethnically clean, without Serbs. The 1961 census recorded 646,605 Albanians, or 67.1% of the total population of Cosmeta. In 1971, 916,168, i.e. 73.7% of Albanians. This number included Albanians who fled the communist regime of Enver Hodge, who, as far as I know, received our documents easier than we were born there. In 1974, the SFRJ Constitution, Kosovo gets autonomy and becomes a republic by all accounts, except by name, so in 1981, the census, carried out under the control of the province's authorities, recorded 1.226,736 Albanians, which is 77.48% of the then total population of KIM. In 1989, by changing the constitution, Kosovo loses broad autonomy and the government returns to the authority of the Republic of Serbia, which is why most Albanians boycott all possible institutions of the Republic of Serbia, including the census, and in 1991 the number of Albanian population in Kosovo is estimated only on the basis of data from the Center for Demographic Research and by these estimates the number of Albanians reached a figure of 1,407.690, or 78.2% of the total population. Unlike the Albanian population, which has increased in both absolute and relative numbers, Serbs in Kosovo are experiencing a reverse process. The 1961 census records 264,604, or 27.4% of Serbs in Kosovo, while 214,555 were recorded in 1991, or 11% of the total population. All these figures are just statistics, and every Serb who left Kosovo has his creepy story about the ways he's forced to do it: threats, blackmail, house burning, physical harassment, grave destruction, cultural monuments, murder and rape. By some estimates, more than half a million Serbs have left Kosovo since the start of World War II. In the territory of AP KIM, the list is organised and implemented by the Ministry of Kosovo and Metohija, in co-operation with the Republic Bureau of Statistics, through list committees forming for the needs of the census. I will certainly agree with the finding that it is necessary to make a list in Kosovo, in order to finally establish the property of Serbs in KIM, but I want to say that I am not sure that this can be done in full capacity, since it is known that in 1999 more than 200,000 Serbs and non-Albanians have been displaced from Kosovo, and that they have not yet returned. If it is known that their properties have been destroyed, the hearth has also been destroyed, usurped by Albanians, it is simply impossible to see the state of their property. It just means that it is very necessary to return Serbs to KIM. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-04-0.u29587	The word has the People's MP Zoran Mašić, and after that, MP Dusan Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-04-0.u29588	Dear Presidency, Mr Vukmirovic, honourable MPs, I must at first express my dissatisfaction with the fact that we have been working for more than half an hour and the government's authorised representative has not yet appeared. It is a flagrant violation of the Rules of Procedure and it is repeated, Malten, regularly every week, at every session, and at the same time the Presidency of this assembly does not take adequate measures, because the representatives of the government here must be when we discuss the laws in principle.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-04-0.u29589	People's MP, I ask you not to misinformed the public; the National Assembly sessions were interrupted by a break in work every time they were chairman, whether the National Assembly president had information that the government had failed to fulfil its obligations and that there was no authorised representative. It has already been said today that the debate has begun with the authorised representative, Minister Clasna Matic. I said that every minister has the right to short absences and to fulfil other obligations during the session, so I ask you to stick to the agenda and first, remember that we are obliged to respect the members of the Rules of Procedure who oblige us to talk about the points that are on the agenda. Thank you. Keep going and you'll be talking for one minute.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-04-0.u29590	Mrs. Comic, I have to thank you, because you are the permanent bullying of Parliament, and you need to stop doing this. I don't violate the Rules of Procedure, I simply have the right, as a People's MP, to point to failures. In the end, any camera can record that there's no minister here right now and it's supposed to be. Therefore, your explanations can no longer be accepted, and certainly you have no right to take my time. You took almost a minute away from me, you said more than I did, so let me continue... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-04-0.u29591	People's MP, please listen carefully when I address you and direct you to the members of the Rules of Procedure who define when and in what cases the chairman is the only one who has the right to interrupt the speaker. I also suggest you take a look at the stenogram and the reasons why I was forced to ask you not to misinform the public about the work at the National Assembly sessions. I have not questioned your right to speak of the current absence of the Minister, please return to the agenda now. I remind you that I said you'd speak one minute longer, now I'm telling you that you'll get two minutes longer. Go on.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-04-0.u29592	And for this kindness of yours, I can't thank you for those two minutes. I'll keep going. I hope that you will change the policy of your behaviour, or, rather, the way you treat the MPs, but it is in your personality and, unfortunately, I cannot correct it, because, as far as I can see, the older colleagues who have been with you in this House have failed, but, then, about that. We're discussing a few laws today. I will talk about two laws and their importance, first of all, about the census law, households and apartments and the agricultural list. These laws are well-conceived and should assist in quality implementation of the list of populations and lists of agriculture and meet some of the criteria prescribed by international regulations, but there may also be some gaps in such proposals. I'll just point to them for a little while. Firstly, as regards the proposal for a agricultural list law, in Article 3, where definitions of the meaning of certain terms, such as agricultural production, agricultural land, family agricultural land, etc., I think the terms set out in the Agriculture and Rural Development Act should be used here. This parliament has passed one such law, where these things are clearly defined, and I don't think that any law that mentions certain areas should be defined in a special way, especially when it comes to definitions, or define them in a different way. What we in the SNS have an objection to is, first of all, the amount of money these laws plan to single out and spend on the census. I think it is an extremely high and inappropriate economic situation in our country and projections of the economic situation that are being created for the following year. I have to remind the citizens and all of you that, according to the data I came up with, the population census costs in 2002 were 2.25 euros per capita. The costs you are planning, or the resources you plan to spend on carrying out these lists and transactions that follow these lists in 2010, 2011 and 2012 are totalling 4.395,008,446 dinars; for the census there are 2,896,327,900 dinars, and for the list of agriculture –1.498,680,000 dinars. When these sums are summed up and divided by the number of residents available to the RZS, it turns out that citizens of this country will cost a census and a list of farms 6.3 euros per capita. That's almost three times what it was in 2002. I don't think there's any excuse for such a significant increase in that amount for a job that needs to be done, which is certainly significant. We believe that it is important for each country to carry out a census, as well as a list of farms, because it has not been implemented since 1960, in fact, but in previous lists, with a census, registered agricultural producers, land, livestock, etc. There is much to be seen through this data, but each country has a regular monitoring of certain statistical parameters. I will mention and elaborate what I think may concern our people and all the well-intentioned people in our country in relation to these statistical parameters that we come up with through annual statistics, as regards certain movements of our country. First of all, I want to talk about tracking the movement of demographic change, which shows that our country is extremely old and that we are among the oldest peoples, and that we are at the bottom of that scale at the average age. Only for the period 2001 to 2006, the population decreased by 131 thousand. What results will be in 2011, that's what we'll see. In this explanation, I will use exactly the data Mr. Dragan Vukmirović, as director of the Institute, gave to a newspaper. The newspaper reported that the number of live births in the period 1990-2005 decreased by 20%, that the number of deaths, compared to the number of born, increased almost by 24.9%, so we have fewer residents per year for a town the size of Petrovac on Mlavi or Čuprije. So in 2005, he died more than 34,591 people were born. These are alarming data and the natural growth in our country is in permanent decline. There is a depopulation of our country, so natural growth is minus 3.5 index points. As a country, we have a significant decline and a depopulation. It is for some comfort, though it can't be a real comfort, that there are some countries that have an even lower index of culture than we do. First of all, I mean Hungary and Bulgaria, because in Bulgaria, the growth is down by 4.8%. As a people and citizens, especially the representatives of the people and our government have to worry about our population policy and do everything to stop this regression, because if it doesn't stop, the estimates are that in 2032 we will have about a million people less than in 2005, which every well-intentioned sea is worried about. It's an extremely catastrophic situation in the village, so-called rural and marginal environments, where we have 4,600 villages, and are estimated to be 1,200 villages less, 25% less in the next 15 years. Furthermore, in more than 200 villages there are no inhabitants under the age of 20, in 190 villages there are no residents. In essence, 86% of Serbian villages fall in population, and only around 14% are growing. Studies show that there are about 260,000 single men under the age of 50 in Serbian villages. If these people seemed to form families, get married, and only one child is born in that family, our country would have 500,000 inhabitants more. The data I presented was certainly all current authorities in the previous period, but unfortunately nothing did make this negative trend of our country's depopulation, especially the Serb population, stop. What I still want to point out is the situation in livestock. Much more precise data will be obtained through the application of this law and the list of agricultural production, among other things, livestock production, but in livestock production we have a permanent regression. According to data from the Republic Statistics Institute, between 1991 and 2002, the number of horses dropped by 50%, the number of cattle by 30 to 35%, the number of sheep – 30 to 35%, the number of pigs – between 25 and 30%, livestock – from 10 to 15%. These figures are even lower than this period since 2002 and the policies that are being conducted in the agrarian region, and we suggest that it is bad, says that there is no concern for agricultural producers and that livestock production is particularly affected. This year, data were provided in the Serbian Chamber of Commerce that 60,000 cows were slaughtered. It's for beef production in every country. It's a serious problem. However, we keep it quiet and goes beyond that. There's a lot more to be said. All in all, we hope that relevant data will come to light, that these data will be published in public, that we will be able to use them all. What I want to appeal to, in the end, is that the people who are going to run the list, the competent ministries and...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-04-0.u29593	National MP, the time available to your MP group has been used. Thank you. Before I give my word to Parliamentarian Tomislav Nikolic, I am informing the National Assembly, on the basis of Article 85(5), that we will be working after 18 hours today, by discussing the item of the agenda that will at that time be the subject of our work. National MP Tomislav Nikolic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-04-0.u29594	I'm advertising a breach of Rules of Procedure, Rule 87, so please don't count my quote at the time...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-04-0.u29595	People's MP, I direct you to read the Rules of Procedure. The provision of reserved quote time has not been valid for nine months. I really ask you not to abuse the right to read our own regulations and act by showing that we share our respect for the home in which we all work. The provision of time reserved for quotations does not exist since the adoption of the new Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-04-0.u29596	Okay. Now take away this time for which you strangled me while I was looking for a word. Mrs. Comic, in order for democracy to be in one assembly, there must be rules under which the Assembly works. Those rules must be universal and cannot depend on whether Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic or Gordana Comic lead the assembly. On November 3rd, the president of the National Assembly interrupted the National Assembly session because there was no government official at the session and she made it clear – I interrupt because there are no government representatives. What are the motives for you to break up the session sometimes, and sometimes I don't, I don't care. If the session is interrupted when there is no government representative, and under article 87, he participates in the work of the National Assembly, he is not the guest you have invited, if the session is interrupted when the president is chaired, the vice president must interrupt it, when he heads the session. That's a rule you have to follow. If the President of the Assembly has made a precedent, a very right precedent, in my opinion, a precedent that should tell the government how much we appreciate the National Assembly, then you must respect that precedent. It's not enough that you have the right to talk whenever you want to, to interrupt whoever you want. Even in the Wild West, it wasn't enough that someone had a gun in their hand, that someone was law enforcement with a gun. And they got away from it, established...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-04-0.u29597	Two minutes. The time to say the breach of the Rules of Procedure has been used. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-04-0.u29598	Did you deny me the time you were talking about?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-04-0.u29599	The National MP, once again, shall be given a time-out in cases where the Government informs the National Assembly that there are no members of the Government who would be authorised to attend the session, and this has already been done several times during the work, not only this autumn session, but also during the extraordinary, and during the spring session, and this will be done every time, with sincere hope that 250 of sending us a clear message to the Government, as an executive body, that it is obliged to inform us of whom it sends as a representative and for which part of the agenda. Today, the government has authorized a representative. The government representative attended most of the session, and each minister or minister, as I have already explained twice, has the right to short absences for other obligations. Since you want to know if practice is unique – it is. Since we want to see if there are any ministers who really respect that, then, for your information, the only minister who has not left the National Assembly Hall at any moment is Minister Nebojsa Bradic, Minister of Culture. All the other ministers remained short or longer from the National Assembly session. The reason why I warned the MP was because he said that the National Assembly tolerates and works without a representative of the government all the time, which is not true and does not benefit from any parliamentary group, nor does it benefit the National Assembly. National MP Zoran Nikolic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-04-0.u29600	Thank you. I'm referring to Article 27. Rules of Procedure. I assume he and your interpretation are still in effect, and among other things, he says that you are the chairman of the obligation to take care of the order in the assembly. If you give us a proposal to experience this assembly as if Minister Matic were present, then it's quite all right. So, if you order us to have Minister Matic present here, I will appreciate that fact, because I still have to respect the presidency and you as chairman. Then, in the presentation, I'll address her later and ask her a few questions and I guess I'll get an answer from her. If the government hasn't sent a memo that no one will be present, it has nothing to do with the fact that it's in this room. Is the minister present here, or is she still on break? If she's present, and you're obviously claiming to be present, then we can go back to work quite regularly. But if not present, explain to us, please – how can we work if there are no representatives of the government? We're discussing important laws here, a set of four laws that are related to statistics, lists, agriculture, etc. We need to get some answers in this debate on the dilemmas we have regarding these laws. Who will give us this answer – Minister Matic, because, in your words, she is obviously present in this room? If so and if this is a virtual assembly, then let's all act virtually. Indeed, this has nothing to do with sound logic, or conflicting with sound logic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-04-0.u29601	There's no damage to article 27. I take care of the order at the National Assembly session and for the fourth time I say that every government official whose presence the Government has informed the National Assembly that he will be at the session has the right to remain, briefly, during the session. So, the moment I speak differently... (Zoran Nikolic, from the place: Where does it say? ) (Dragan Todorovic, from the place: How long do they stay? I ask the People’s MPs not to receive from the place, since I apply all the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly as I give explanations. Also, I'm warning all those who break a provision that we can't throw away, that they don't. I ask you, in your vision of the injured Rules of Procedure, not to misquote what I give as an explanation, so as not to lead into error, therefore, the absence. National MP Dusan Maric has a word after him, MP Miletic Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-04-0.u29602	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, according to widely accepted international and domestic standards, the Serbian people's 2002 census welcomed them in a state of deep demographic age. In the past eight years, the state has done absolutely nothing to stop the process of accelerated ageing and the disappearance of the Serbian nation. On the contrary, the state in which we are waiting for the 2011 census is worse than in 2002, although before 5 October, I remind you, in 2000, that you have a demographic strategy that, when you take power, will provide a reduction in mortality and increase in birth rate. Here's the score. In 2008 alone, 33,628 people died in Serbia more than they were born. This means that last year Serbia lost one city the size of Jagodina. Compared to 1998, which, as you know, was a war year, the death toll was 23,064 higher than the number of born. Practically, your "democracy" as you call it, Milosevic's "dictatur" has surpassed by 10,500 souls in this infamous competition, with a percentage of 45%. Also, 99,376 Serbian residents died in 1998, and last year – 102,711. While 76,330 children were born in Serbia in 1998, 69,083, and 7,000 children were born last year. If we make a comparison between 2005 and 1990, we get information that the number of newborns in Serbia has decreased by 20%, while the number of deaths has increased by 24.9%. Only in Bulgaria and Hungary is the difference between the number of dead and born larger than in Serbia. There are historians who claim that Serbs originally are the oldest people. They may not be of origin, but they are of old age. The average age of the Serbian population is 41 years. Mrs. Komic, I'm asking you to allow me to proceed. [[Zagor in the O.R.]] I have no intention of getting used to MPs from ruling parties. (The President warns the Messengers with the bell. Thank you. The average age of the population is 41 years – therefore we are the first in Europe and among the ten oldest nations in the world. A reduction in Serbia's total population, especially Serbs in Serbia, would have already taken a catastrophic turn if it hadn't been for the immigration of 700,000 Serbs from Croatia and BiH during the 1991-2000 wars. In Književec, Svrljig, Gajino Han, Crno Trava and Babušnica, the average age of the population is amazing 47 years. (Zagor in the O.R.) Dragan Todorovic, from the post: What is going on in the Assembly? )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-04-0.u29603	I ask the People's MPs not to earn and to allow the MP Dusan Maric to carry out his presentation according to the business provisions.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-04-0.u29604	I'm asking you to charge me with this half-minute period. Thank you. Even in Belgrade, which houses the two largest maternity homes in Serbia, last year the number of deaths was 2% higher than the number of born. The number of older than 65 years is greater than the number of younger than 15 years, and this difference is estimated to increase steadily. Last year, out of 165 municipalities in Serbia, in only eight municipalities, the number of births was higher than the number of deaths. Of these eight municipalities, only three municipalities (Presevo, Novi Pazar and Tutin) can be talked about the desired rate of birth. Also last year, in 1346 settlements in Serbia, no child was born. Last year alone, 25,000 completely abandoned rural properties were registered in Vojvodina alone. According to the last census in 1981, 9.9% of the population in Serbia accounted for children under the age of seven. According to the 2002 census, the number decreased by one-third and was 6.6%. Only every fourth Serbian population is younger than 19 years old. In comparison, younger people from 19 years of age make up 54% of the population of KIM. It is further concerned that the ageing process in Serbia affects women more than the male population. Specially noticeable is the decline in the number of women in the best age of birth, between 24 and 35 years of age. As for young people, they continue to flee Serbia, no less than 15 years ago. The latest polls show that even 84% of young Serbs are ready to leave the country for a better life. Otherwise, an annual Serbia has left 20,000 inhabitants. As a logical consequence of the country's poor relationship with its own people, one common hopelessness, a moral sunflower and a socio-economic situation, there are fewer marriages and more divorces in Serbia. In 1998, there were 18 divorces on 100 marriages, and last year – more than 22 divorces. A little more, so every fourth marriage in Serbia will end in divorce. As for marriages that survive, the situation is the following -- Serbs believe that one child is enough for them, however, statistics show that they are not giving birth to either one. Every marriage in Serbia is statistically attended by 0.88% of children. The result of such a definition is the fact that only 19,000 abortions were performed in public health institutions last year alone. The estimates say that at least twice as many abortions have been made in private health hospitals. If this is added to the intentional abortions carried out on wild and abortions that are not the result of the definition of pregnant women, but the result of health problems – about 60,000 Serbs are killed a year before birth. This is about 15,000 more than the total number of victims of the Serb people in all wars fought from 1991 to 1999. A dreary demographic picture in Serbia completes the fact that every year several thousand Serbs die violently. Last year alone, in traffic and other accidents, murders and suicides, 3,692 Serbian citizens died. Of which, 1,500 committed suicide. Practically, on average, every day in Serbia, three people die in various accidents, and four people commit suicide. The question arises – what did you do as a government to change this dreary picture, to make the number of people born in Serbia greater than the number of deaths? Nothing of value. On the one hand, you keep cutting budgets for pregnant women and children. On the other hand, you have created a social environment where pregnant women, objectively, have become second-row citizens in some segments. The thing has gone so far that a pregnant woman in Serbia can't get a job, and girls and younger women who are employed are even publicly forced, often and writtenly obliged to sign that in the next three or five years they won't be born. If natural growth remains at this level and no specific population migration in Serbia occurs, which is unlikely, in 40 years, the number of Serbians will decrease by 1.500,000 and 20%, respectively. Otherwise, Serbs are the only people on the Balkan Peninsula whose numbers have decreased compared to the number of inhabitants in the early 20th century. According to an analysis by German geographer Alojz Fisher, in the last 100 years, the Turkish people have increased by 400%, the Albanian people – 700%, Romanian – 45%, Greek – by 35%. The only Serb is less than 1901. The situation will deteriorate dramatically if we join the EU. Estimates suggest that in this case hundreds of thousands of citizens, mostly young, will permanently leave Serbia. The comparisons also work as an illustration, following EU accession, Bulgaria has left a million, and Romania has left three million citizens. They all left temporarily, and the rest permanently. All this warns that the last moment for Serbia's spiritual and biological restoration is that Serbs in 200-300 years would not be a lesson in another's history and geography textbook. As part of this strategy, in my opinion, it is necessary to do the following: firstly, to establish a state-owned fund for the restoration of the population, which would set out a certain percentage of each monetary transaction in Serbia. That fund should also belong to all assets seized in the fight against organised crime and any property that has no heirs. Second, the age limit for retirement women, first-born women, to be reduced by a year, by a second child – two years, in three - three years, by four - five years. Third, women who have five children should be given a national pension at the level of the average salary in Serbia. Unless it's settled, settle their housing issues. Fourth, buy out young couples and free to share abandoned rural properties. I said there are 25,000 in Vojvodina alone. Fifth, pass a law on stimulating measures for the employment of pregnant women to ensure that all pregnant women who are not in permanent employment get a job immediately. If they violently stopped their pregnancy, they'd be fired. The sixth, maternity leave for the first child to extend, from three, to 12 months, for the second child to 18, and for the third child to 24 months. Seven, sharpen the conditions under which a pregnant woman can perform an abortion. Eighth, introduce some kind of so-called Dukes, as they say, the Hungarian tax on bachelors and married couples who are older and who will not have children on purpose. Ninth, increase the allocations for health care, education and education of children and, tenthly, urgently bring a state programme for free treatment of infertility. Only in case these and similar measures are adopted and implemented in action could Serbs expect the following censuses to be calm, secure in their future. In the end, I remind you of that people's proverb - whose flock is its mountain.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-04-0.u29605	It was spent 11 minutes and 25 seconds from the time intended for the MP's group. The word is by MP Miletic Mihajlovic. After him, MP Zoran Nikolic. I'm just asking you to sign into the electronic system. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-04-0.u29606	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, given the time I have left, I'm going to say very briefly just a few notes regarding the laws relating to the upcoming lists. The SPS-JS Parliament Club believes that these laws are very important, because they are designing a real picture of what is the structure of our population, the material situation today in Serbia and what is the situation in agriculture. Such data has been shown to be very important after each census and we expect that this government, and all future governments, based on the data and analysis from these lists, will do everything possible to achieve a consistent policy that is aimed at improving the population situation in Serbia and economic power, as well as the even development of all the rest of our country. When it comes to the Statistical Institute, I would say, on behalf of our parliamentary group, that certain recommendations that come from the international community on how to sort some data into the census, which are certainly not imperative, should not be applied by post-traumatic means, especially if such a method contributes to the economic and population degradation of certain parts of our country. I mean, first of all, to what's so-called. A permanent population, which is a rapper for many things that adversely affect many of our other municipalities. When it comes to the agricultural list, I'd say it's very important to record the state of those agricultural holdings that have over 0.5 and below half a hectares, because they don't need such people... (President: People's Parliament, the time at your disposal has been used. )......................................................................................................... Making social cases, but states, consistent policies, and there's something positive to be done. In the end, this other sentence. In order for the list to succeed and to obtain objective data, it takes a planned media and political campaign, which will make people...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-04-0.u29607	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Zoran Nikolic. After him, MP Sreto Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-04-0.u29608	Can you just tell me how much time is left?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-04-0.u29609	Your task force has 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-04-0.u29610	Thank you. First of all, I'd like to begin by thanking Minister Skundric for coming today. Without any irony, I commend your gesture. You came upon the invitation of the Assembly to discuss today a very important set of laws. Therefore, it is a joint investigation into the draft law establishing public interest in the expropriation of immovableity in the construction of the MG11 master gas pipeline, the draft law on pipeline transport of gas and liquid hydrocarbons and distribution of gas pipelines, the draft law amending and supplementing the Mining Act and the draft law on the termination of the Association Act in the Community of Yugoslav Electro-Economics. Starting with you being here, I think we can begin this debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-04-0.u29611	People's MP, we can't begin until the debate begins with the opening of Article 142. It is currently in session where we are discussing a joint principled search of four laws that are not the ones you quoted. Minister Petar Skundric has the right to sit in the hall on the basis of a notice from the government of the Republic of Serbia. I expected you to have this shared, that it was appointed to attend the meeting of the National Assembly this afternoon, for a joint principled search on the agenda points for which Minister Jasna Matic was authorised. If that's not shared, then you have my personal apology and I'll read it to you officially, if you will. It had to be divided already. Taking care of Article 27, on the work of the congregation, I will determine why it has not already been shared with you. After reading the omass laws that are currently not in the debate, I will use the time to inform you of the time of the Parliament's group. Go ahead, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-04-0.u29612	Thank you. You just took the word out of my mouth. Before I speak of these laws, I expect Mr. Skundric to give his preliminary presentation and interpretation of these draft laws...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-04-0.u29613	National MP, you are violating the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, endangering the dignity of the National Assembly. I gave you a notice as to why Minister Petar Skundric was allowed to sit in the O.R., and the debate that is under way is a united principled search on items 13 to 16 of the agenda. If you don't know what the dots are, I can read it, but I have no doubt you do. Continue on the agenda, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-04-0.u29614	Look, you're in a paradoxal situation right now. I appreciate you being the chairman, but you're suggesting to me that I don't trust my own eyes. If that's how it's supposed to be in this House, here, I won't believe what I see in front of me right now, and I'll believe that Mrs Diana Dragutinovic is present here and that Minister Matic is present here.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-04-0.u29615	People's MP, I now give you a warning for demeaning the work of the National Assembly and all of us. I made a very clear notification of the correspondence between the Government and the National Assembly and an apology as to why the multiple notice of the Government, which has arrived in the National Assembly, has not already been shared, with the promise that I will determine why it has not been done. Please refrain from further disrespecting the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-04-0.u29616	I have never disrespected the Assembly, and I have always fought for my democratic right to, in accordance with logic and rights, work according to the Rules of Procedure of this assembly. Dear Mrs Matic, today we have a joint search...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-04-0.u29617	People's MP, you've made a lapus. Minister Matic is not in the O.R. right now. I'm asking you to...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-04-0.u29618	But I see her, if you don't see her.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-04-0.u29619	People's messenger, I give you a warning. Go on.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-04-0.u29620	I really don't know what to do. You claim that Mrs Matic is present here...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-04-0.u29621	People's MP, I've given my warning and my first warning. I now warn you, before the second warning, that at no time did I claim that Minister Matic is in the O.R. I have informed you twice about the government's notification that Minister Petar Skundric has also been designated for this point, which is under way, and for the next one, which we will be working on. I now give you a warning to stop demeaning the work at the National Assembly session. Go on.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-04-0.u29622	All right, however, I leave it to the audiences of this assembly to decide for themselves who demeans this parliament, whether the presidency, or the chairman, or me as a MP trying to work in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and the points on the agenda, which, according to the Rules of Procedure, requires the presence of the Secretary-General. You'll allow me at least one thing, I don't think you can deny it to me, to imagine that Minister Matic here is here and to address her anyway, because I have some questions I expect an adequate and competent answer, given that she is authorized in front of the government for these points of the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-04-0.u29623	National MP, for the third time, I would like to inform you that Prime Minister Petar Skundric is authorised, for the third time, that Minister Petar Skundric has been authorised. I ask you to explain as creatively as I don't suspect you can, but with respect to the dignity of the National Assembly, in the course of your time, in the time of the Parliament's group, anything concerning the laws that are on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-04-0.u29624	Then let's discuss one thing. I hold in my hands the draft law on official statistics. It is said here that Mr Verica Kalanovic, Minister for the National Investment Plan, has been designated as a representative of the government in the National Assembly. Now the confusion is absolute and total. What I have officially as a memo is that Mrs. Kalanovic is authorized...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-04-0.u29625	People's messenger, I give you a second warning. Today, a notice was shared that Minister Jasna Matic was also authorised, or the National Assembly was informed yesterday. For the third time, I apologize to the MPs who already on the benches did not inform you that Minister Petar Skundric was empowered to do the same. I have notified the National Assembly three times that Minister Petar Skundric is authorised, and I have three apologies that your multiple notice is not already on the tables. Since I find it unnecessary to apply the Rules of Procedure, I really ask you to take advantage of the time available to your MP's group for giving views on the laws on the agenda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-04-0.u29626	Dear Minister Matic, what...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-04-0.u29627	People's MP, I warn you, the next step is to take words. Please take this seriously...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-04-0.u29628	Explain to me who to address, please. I'm really confused. I've been in Parliament for nine years, and I haven't had a case like this.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-04-0.u29629	National MP, the procedure you are now prone to is a threat to order in the session of the National Assembly. Please don't do this, I'm really asking you not to.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-04-0.u29630	But I'm asking you to help me with someone I can talk to.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-04-0.u29631	You will not give me space for anything but to give you the measure of demeaning the MPs of the people, the National Assembly, and for endangering order and peace at the session of the National Assembly. The rules are that we respect them. There are no negotiations on the rules. I'm really asking you to explain the laws that are on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-04-0.u29632	Now that you've asked me nicely, give me back my time, since you've been talking for at least six minutes. How much time do I have left? Dear citizens, today we are discussing a bill on... I'm sorry, I was absolutely right. It's a matter of timing and dynamics again. The authorised representative for the labour classification laws, on official statistics, on the census and agriculture is Mr Petar Skundric. Don't ever doubt my political instinct again. I knew the government's intention was to empower Mr. Skundric and these points of the agenda. It's simple, when a minister comes and sits on the benches that are scheduled for the minister, then it's logical for him to represent them. I apologize to you, Mr Skundric, because you are not to blame for this situation in Parliament, but now I am given the opportunity to ask what I wanted to ask as a question, may I say, Minister Matic, I can now ask Mr Skundric. Minister Matic, in the introduction, expressed the need for the adoption of laws concerning statistics. It also called for European standards, the need to bring the sphere into line with European legislation, and that is absolutely fine, but it is simply the manner of this government to undermine, neglect, or silence the tradition that we have, our own tradition, from certain areas, even when it comes to official statistics. We are an old European country that has its roots and its own tradition, even in the sphere of legislation, even in this area. We passed the first laws in 1862, during the rule of Mihajl Obrenović, when in one serious and legitimate way we began to keep statistics on various areas, i.e. data that are important for the functioning of the state. It's not always mentioned. It is very pleasant to refer to European standards and to say that we will respect them. The point is, what is harder part of the job, indeed, is that it would not happen to us, as we do in many areas, if we were in words to join the EU and comply with European standards, and in fact, because of various failures, I would say, and sloppyness, it does not work in accordance with the prescribed European standards. What is particularly in the focus of my attention is, above all, the agricultural list law, which is foreseen for 2011. It's a law needed, since the last census was carried out in 1960. So, after 51 years, we'll be able to list agricultural holdings and everything about agriculture. I really express the need to enter a lot of data, among other things, and the way mineral fertilisers, plant protection products, etc. are used. So these data will need to be entered in those forms. What worries me very much is a thing that has been kept quiet in Serbia, and I intend to say it now, in two minutes. It's that the Ministry of Agriculture passed a rule in mid-August, allowing the radiation to grow by a ton of mineral fertilizer, with 500 bekerellas, to rise to 10,000 bekerellas. It's allowed 20 times the radioactivity of that regulation that appeared on the Ministry of Agriculture site, so I invite interested citizens to visit that site, and I tell them in advance that they won't find it on that site anymore, because it's been erased after seven days. What's also important, given the fact that the radioactive elements are taxed, is that there's no strontium or polonium. It is very interesting that it is not the responsibility of the Minister of Agriculture at all, but should be the responsibility of the Minister for Environmental Protection. I would like to remind you that the Plant Protection Administration, 2004 and 2008, banned shipments of artificial fertilisers whose radioactivity was about 1,100, 1,200 bekerellas. Now 10,000 beckerels are allowed and, magically, that regulation from the Ministry of Agriculture site disappears. I'm just curious, when it's written down in these forms, among other things, and how much mineral fertilizer is thrown, whether it's going to be listed and what the radioactivity of that fertilizer is and whether it's a European standard. The minister replied verbally to me that it is a European standard, and I say it is not and that something like this could not happen in Hungary, Croatia, that I am not talking about developed EU agricultural countries. To conclude, it's absolutely nice to be on paper, and it's nice to refer to European standards, but on a case like this, when imports of artificial fertilizer with 20 times more radioactivity are allowed, the whole story falls, the whole commitment to respect European standards falls. We potentially put our farmers at risk not to throw mineral fertilisers at their fields, but radioactive waste, which will potentially produce very serious consequences. Someone has to answer for that in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-04-0.u29633	The parliamentary group has two and a half minutes to go. National MP Tomislav Nikolic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-04-0.u29634	Article 104 has been injured. The Rules of Procedure, by which the MPs of the people are obliged to honor the dignity of the National Assembly, which applies to all the participants in the session of the National Assembly. I would ask Professor Skundric not to ruin his reputation and authority by allowing coalition partners to send him to the National Assembly session to replace someone who replaced someone. Mr. Skundric, I will publicly apologize to you if you give me the exact bill you came here today to explain at the National Assembly session.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-04-0.u29635	National MP, there is no violation of Article 104, nor have you explained it, so I ask you not to abuse the right to a word obtained under Article 100(1). There is the word of the Messenger of the people Sreto Peric, and after him, the messenger of the people, Milorad Buh.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-04-0.u29636	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, Mr. Skundric, it is good that you are present at this session, as well as Minister Jasna Matic, Mr. Dragan Vukmirovic, also, but we are discussing today, as you like to say, a terribly important four legislative proposals. To remind both you and the citizens who are watching this transfer, these are the draft legislation on classification of activity, the draft law on official statistics, the draft legislation on censuses, households and dwellings in 2011 and the 2011 Agricultural List Act. It's a good thing Minister Skundric is present right now, but there's little to it. At this session, when we are discussing this issue, I will try, as well as my colleagues from the SRS, to point out some things, which would be a good thing if, first of all, Mr Mirko Cvetkovic, Prime Minister of the Government were present here, then, Minister of Infrastructure, Minister of Labour, Minister of Agriculture, not to say, the entire Government. In my presentation, I will use most of the time to explain the draft legislation on censuses, households and apartments in 2011, as well as for the 2011 agricultural list, with the fact that I do not consider those other two legislative proposals to be any less relevant and important than the two we talk about. The legal proposals I will talk about are laws that provide legal frameworks for the census in Serbia, as well as a list of agriculture. These are two laws that define the duration of time. They will cease to apply, regardless of the decident provision that regulates it, in 2013, when this job is fully completed, while the laws on official statistics and on classification of activity will remain in force until their amendment to some other laws. I will start with the 2011 Bill on List of Populations, Households and Apartments. Of course, neither I, I suppose, nor my colleagues from the SRS, will talk about it when the first list is made, we've heard it many times today. Every MP has the right to address the citizens of Serbia and their voters in a way that defines it as good, but we will not talk about it, nor do we need to talk about the census every 10 years. We're going to try to talk about the financial resources spent on this activity, see how a large army of people will be controlled on this list, how they're going to get to those people who are going to make that list. The first thing that is unclear to anyone in the SRS, I don't know if Mrs Jasna Matic, as a minister, who was authorized in the first part of this session, if we can call her that, could talk about this, because she, explaining four legislative proposals, spoke for 5.47 minutes, and today you could notice that all the parliamentary groups had authorised representatives and that almost everyone spoke for 15 or 20 minutes, and that all the parliamentary groups had registered representatives to talk about these proposals. Now I'm asking a question and I want to get an answer on behalf of the SRS. I don't know if Mr Vukmirovic, does Minister Skundric, at the end of my presentation, will answer the question – why are we at the same time not making a list of the population, households and apartments and the list of agriculture? You will state certain reasons why it is good to stand this gap of six months, approximately, but you have called, in one of the members of the Bill on the List of Populations and Households, that it is good to coordinate this list. You've made six months of difference and then we'll have considerably higher costs than we'd be if we were doing it at the same time. The instructors could at the same time, at the same time period, and at the same cost per state, or Serbian citizens, to instruct, or train controllers and persons to make a list, i.e. censusors. You did not do this because you do not think it would be bad if in 2011, about 70,000 people were engaged in the implementation of this list and, given the resources allocated to this activity, you would reward them well, because you expect the next elections to be in 2012, so there is a good way and a good opportunity to show how you take care of the citizens of Serbia, how you take care of their budget, and they will be hired, we are responsible for you, representatives of the parties who are in power. But it's on your long stick, your 2012 election prep. How you work, what kind of situation we have right in agriculture, which should be the subject of this law, it won't allow you to remain in power for such a long period of time. In Article 4. The proposal for a census law, in paragraph 1, needs to fill out 34 data and, while it is already done, it is a more significant part, perhaps even from the area of the agricultural list, then it is quite rational, quite logical to have the census and agriculture in the same period of time. In Article 21. You listed the bill of law exactly the means that will be allocated in the budget of the Republic of Serbia and directed towards the Republic Bureau of Statistics and the way it will be spent, so you said: in 2010 – 277,895,000, in 2011 – 2.339,479.000, in 2012 – 39,305,022 dinars and in 2013 – 42,445,668 dinars. I want to interpret this in a way that needs to be interpreted. In 2013, you are not in the eurozone, and you insist on telling Serbian citizens that you are close, that you are at the door of the EU, that we are almost in their embrace. From that job, at least in this way, there's nothing. Mr. Vukmirović, I don't know to what extent you are, perhaps my address shouldn't be directed to you, participated in the drafting of this law, I assume you've been consulted. You state in Article 21, in the last view, that the list committees, but at the request of the Republic Bureau of Statistics, are obliged to deliver reports on how they spent the funds for the census. It's got to be a commitment, it can't be based on a request from the Bureau. As the Institute has an obligation to submit to the government of the Republic of Serbia by 31 March of the current year a report on how funds were spent in the previous year, as well as on the census commissions, as it is a huge asset, it should be an obligation to provide data to the Republic Statistics Office. In Article 22. Proposal for a law, you say: 'The funds for the financing of transactions in the list, in art. The 20th and 21st of this law are foreseen on the basis of current prices from October 2008'. How lazy are you, if only the citizens of Serbia knew. Why October 2008? Already in the 2011 Agricultural List Bill, you said the base was April 2009. The difference in the upcoming of the proposal by the government and the release of the assembly procedure is only 10 days. One law arrived on July 10th 2009, and another, I think, on July 17th 2009, but not a rabbit in that bush. Because of something else, this great time distance has been made, because you say in the next position – the funds provided for each year are valorised every year, when the Republic budget is adopted. Let me ask you, what does valorization mean? So the alignment, meaning the increase in these expenditures, is certainly not going to be a reduction. That's why you tried to keep your base period as far as possible from the time and time you're doing this list, in order to have an excuse for the citizens of Serbia, in order to have an excuse for MPs, in the years in which these budgets are adopted, to say - we must, we need to do a valorization. You say that the data collected in the list will be used exclusively for statistical purposes. Yes, for statistical purposes, but that requires a large number of conclusions. One of our colleagues here has already told us what the situation is when the population is concerned, but it will not be burned to repeat certain facts. Of the 4,800 villages that exist in Serbia, each fourth is in the disappearance phase and is assumed to disappear completely if the population's dynamics continue to disappear in villages. As according to legal standards, there is a clear knowledge of what a country does to the state and a village, in order to be a village, there must be a population, and we know that there are a large number of villages in Serbia that have no population at all. It's a little cynical and next. You have provided the same cash as the penalty for those persons who are being questioned and provide certain information to the respondents who carry out the list and to the censuses. He can make a mistake, he can be ignorant, he will be safe in the villages of Serbia, and the censusors will be persons who will go through certain training and must not make any mistakes, and you have provided for fines of 20 to 50,000 and for one behind the other. Why, I quoted you as saying, very important, was there to be representatives of the government in general? In particular, we can see that in Article 5. Proposal for a agricultural list law, where we are said to have the following data after the completion of the list – the area of the orchard and the number of trees. Although Serbia once had 460 million plum trees and was the fourth in Europe, the seventh in the world to produce plums, today is not such a situation, because this incompetent government is not in a position to help the agricultural population and peasants. The SRS has been researching and published in "The Great Serbia" the names of the owners of major coolants in Serbia. Don't think, respected citizens of Serbia, that the SRS is against high capacity refrigerators, on the contrary, we want them to be as much as possible, but there is a huge involvement between the parties in the authorities and those who own the freezers. I have a concrete proposal on how you could help raspberry producers. This has to be signed in. In this way, he must react at least in the next year. How can the state help? You organize the show and bring in farmers, raspberries, wheat, corn and milk producers, and then make that show a laurel, and it's done in a time period when it's a raspberries buyout campaign. They do not require agricultural producers, nor members of the SRS from the state to determine the purchase price of the raspberries, but we also demand that storage be paid, that the state pay the premium in the name of the storage. Then he wouldn't have to hand over and sell all the quantities at once, but something would be sold in April and May, when, otherwise, the owners of the refrigerator export, and the farmers, or the raspberries producers, would sell as much as they needed to pay certain costs. You don't have a serious way and a serious strategy. Once you tried to show what should be exported and what we should base our exports in agricultural production, there were hair, whale bones, horns, beaks, hooves and the like, instead of traditionally known Serbian products such as meat, milk, raspberries, plums and other things. You need to have a serious approach to solving these problems. Agricultural resources are relatively renewable quickly, but you do not want it, or perhaps you are here with the intention of destroying and bringing citizens of Serbia, who are already in poor, difficult condition, into an even more difficult state. We in the SRS, on behalf of Serbia's citizens and on behalf of Serbia, will strongly oppose it, whoever is in power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-04-0.u29637	MP Velimir Ilic has been reported. Do you want to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure? (No) (Velimir Ilic, from the place: I have my 20 minutes within which I want to speak. ) You can talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure, which is the only basis by which you can get a word in the part of the session that is under way. National MP, I refer you to Article 93 - authorised representatives or presidents of parliamentary groups have the right to address the National Assembly immediately after the legislation of the law is completed by a representative of the Government, rapporteurs of the committees, MPs who have issued an opinion. Then they have the right to use their first ten minutes, and then we move on to the debate after the application for a word, and only after the last registered speaker is finished can I ask if anyone else wants a word. I thank all the MPs for their help, but the MP has been reported in the electronic system, and I have to react. The word of the People's Messenger, Milorad Buh, after him, is the messenger of the people, Milorad Krstin.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-04-0.u29638	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, the government of Republika Srpska in persecution urged the government a few days ago to include in the list of population, households, dwellings and agriculture the property of Serbs who were exiled from the Croatian state to the premises of the Republic of Serbia. This is an ideal opportunity to obtain basic data on the crime committed against Serbs. Unfortunately, the republican authorities in Serbia do not have a suspicious overview of all human losses, the number of killed, the number of wounded, the number of expelled. We have no record of any material damage to the Serbs. On the other hand, we don't have any data on the sequestered housing rights, the short-term pensions, the financial amounts relating to pensions, actions, other damaged, destroyed and burned assets. Analyzing this bill of law and the proposal for a law on agriculture, we have come to the conclusion that it is a convenient opportunity to do so now, because, historically speaking, we are going to miss the chance to get the right information. Unfortunately, the Republic of Serbia currently lacks data on material damage, human losses to NATO bombings in 1999. All that is written, it is disputed, with the explanation of the DOS authorities at the time that the amounts mentioned are knocked up and that the real damage is not so great. Here's a chance to get the right information, which will show us how much it's worth in financial terms what's been destroyed during NATO bombing. On the other hand, it is devastating that the Republic of Serbia has no suspicious data on victims and material damage during World War II. Historians dealing with this problem have repeatedly pointed to the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia that this is necessary. Here's a good chance, we now have a population list, that with adequate data, adequate questions in that questionnaire, we get all this dubious data. A month ago, we passed the Diaspora Act and realized that we had no record of our diaspora count. Here is a convenient opportunity for us to get information about the number of diaspora, about the property that has the diaspora and everything that matters from the point of view of the state interest of the Republic of Serbia, on the same cost, with two or three additional questions or five new questions. In addition, we have certain other categories of population that will also not be covered by this list, or we will duplicate certain things. This primarily refers to the area of agriculture. In terms of both laws and laws, you said that through the list of populations, households and apartments we would receive certain data that we would use comparatively in the list of agriculture. It's good anyway, but it's not acceptable from the point of view of the SRS to be a separate process. It can't be a separate process. Once you enter the house, into the household, then you have to take all the data, there's no need to come two or five times. And from a financial perspective, if we look at it, there's a huge cost of this second list on agriculture. A billion and a half, or somewhere around 17m euros, are huge funds for something we can do in one move. Why burden the budget, which is normally empty to us, with two departures, two exits, two forms, two censuses, etc., all that will be a burden to this agricultural list? What I want to point out is that MPs of the SRS are already good principles, related to agriculture and the data we're going to get in the area of agriculture, is that it's better not to share that data, because they're catastrophic. Only in a few financial indicators will I show why they are very bad. Agricultural participation in GDP in 2005 was 13.5%, next year, 2006, 12.6%, and in 2007 – 10.8%. In 2008 – 11.8%, and in 2009, according to data we can see on the Ministry of Agriculture site, the total volume of agricultural production will be increased by 2%, but due to the depression of agricultural prices, the ratio of 2008/2009, or the 2008/2009 season, is considered agricultural production, ratio 1:0.80. So we're going to have a 20% reduction. If we add that to the physical volume of the 2% increase, it means that the actual decrease will be 18% in the area of agriculture. Agriculture's participation in GDP in 2009 will be at 10% somewhere. This clearly indicates that for the last four years, calendarly speaking, participation in GDP has fallen from 13.5 to about 10%. He's worried and has to worry, and the peasants must be worried about it, the participation of subsidies in our budget. In 2008, it was 4.2%, and this year it was 2.2%. Let's add to that the EU's data, which we are seeking, which stands out more than 40% in the last 20 years; for this year, the EU's spending side of the budget is 116 billion euros. For agriculture, it will single out 56 billion, representing 48% of the participation. And other indicators have to worry us, because we left the village and peasants and the results will get worse and worse, regardless of the promises of the current government that agriculture will suddenly start the moment we can, through certain implementation programmes, take part in the IPA programme, then, when we become a candidate, because we will get huge funds etc. I will read a scientific analysis of Professor Hans Hofbauer, published in the book "EU Enlargement to the East", where he pointed out through certain data, at a stage where one country becomes a candidate and when it receives full membership, which is the repercussion of the participation of agriculture in GDP, external trade and all other indicators of agricultural production. Right away, let me say that this is about a serious economic theorist, a professor of economics at Vienna University, a professor of demographic history, etc., who published twenty serious books on economics, agriculture, etc., so it's about a competent man. These are not SRS data, these are data from a man who is seriously dealing with this matter, who has pointed to serious problems facing countries that have joined the EU. EU markets were closed to Eastern European agricultural products, while farmers in the West were able to export their still highly subsidized products to Eastern Europe uninterrupted. This has led to a situation where EU pig detachment subsidies in Poland are cheaper than the cost of production for pigmeat in Poland itself. So Western products have flooded supermarkets in almost all EU candidate countries. At the same time, Hungarian and Polish peasants must fight for the placement of their own products. Bulgarian tomatoes and Hungarian peppers, which were not only represented at times of communism in the Western markets but also highly appreciated, not a decade after the turn, have no chance of being found in EU markets. This reminds us a lot of the situation we're in right now. We are covered by the presence of agricultural products from almost all Western European countries, from other countries, so that the domestic farmer cannot produce his own product, which, in his own manufacturing process, produce, with very expensive production, with a set of re-promaterials, which buys on the domestic market and invests in the product and is on the market, sells, because we have plenty of cheaper food, but not food that is the result of the economic match, but the subsidies given by the Western European countries for its producers in agriculture. It is interesting to read one of his analyses concerning subsidies that EU candidates have in the period of accession, as candidates and equal EU members. He says, in the end, that Brussels for 2004, the first year of its accession, is meant by ten countries that have joined the EU, pays only a quarter of what its Western European counterpart receives for a peasant in the East. In 2005, the allocation will be 30%, in 2006, 35% and until 2013, when their participation will be 100%, so they will be full in terms of obtaining subsidies. It clearly states what Serbian agriculture will go through. A Serbian peasant in these conditions cannot expect anything good, due to neglect by the current government and other protectionist measures of the EU. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-04-0.u29639	The word has been given to the People's Messenger Milorad Krstin. The time available to the SRS parliamentary group is 16 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-04-0.u29640	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the respected citizens of Serbia, are before us four laws that are, again, united in one law, which are the draft law on classification of activity, the draft law on official statistics, the draft legislation on censuses, households and housing in 2011 and the draft legislation on the list of agriculture in 2011. Given that there is not much time left for the SRS parliamentary group, I will be based on only one of these four laws, which is the proposal for a agricultural census law. In fact, the last time something like this was done in 1960, and this law, as you say, came on time, because, together with the population census law, households and apartments in 2011, there is a coordination of activities between the census and the agricultural list, which should contribute to the savings in financial resources, as you say in Article 2(3). I will tell the citizens of Serbia that 1,498,680,546 dinars will be taken from their pockets again, for the simple reason that someone designed these two laws, i.e. the census, to be made in November, i.e. One in April, one in November, so, let's say, from November 1st to November 15th, a list of agriculture, when one contradiction will occur. The people will single out huge money because something couldn't be united and all that was done, say, in November 2011. Let you do it, but I'm interested in how you'll do it, how you'll explain it to the people, when you've brought us the cost of that 1,498 million. You are told – the cost of preparing the list is 35 million, the preparation lists of the observation units in the list – 4.188.000, the printing and distribution of the list material and the purchase of accessories are 33 million, the instruction of the censusors and other direct participants of the list are 272 million, marketing costs, the production of the advertising material is 8 million, the censusing – 878 million, the control of the quality of the list is 10 million, the processing of the inventory and the automatic processing of the data is 171 million, the summation of the census results is 24 million and the other costs are 58 million, interesting, which is a total of 1,496,680,546 dinars. I'm interested in something else, what kind of reception will you face with individual households, or, as they say, in the family agricultural land, when they registered in 2009, in early January, February, March, and they didn't get the promised subsidies? According to the Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, he is not a professional peasant. How will you be welcomed by 90,000 agricultural holdings that have not received 12 thousand per hectare subsidies? How do you think you get certain data from them, at least as far as agricultural land data is concerned, because Article 5 says: ''The list collects data on the structure of agricultural land: location, land and category of use of agricultural land, crop areas, orchard areas and number of trees, vineyard areas and the number of vines? '"Do you think that the so many old holdings, the people who make up those holdings, I mean the old people who stayed, did one of the over 65 years, or two in the household, know how many chocolate vines they have? Vineyards dry. "The irrigation, the use of organic and mineral fertilisers, as well as plant protection funds, the number of livestock by species and categories," do you think they know that? Do you think they know all kinds and all categories? Further, "number of livestock, number of other animals, hive bees, data on agricultural machinery and facilities, working force, sale of agricultural products, organic agricultural production, additional work, as well as data on ponds and forest areas". When you mentioned the data on the agricultural machinery, I'd just like to tell you next. The agricultural land in Serbia is treated with 475,000 two-story and 261,000 one-story tractors, 25,000 combined and more than three million connected machines. There is insufficient traffic structure, and agricultural machinery and equipment are amortised. The average age of the tractor is 18 years, and the combination, minimum 15 years. Does this show enough that the Serbian government, here for nine years, has been running this agriculture, or the Serb agrarian in the sun? How are you going to list one agricultural family land, when a man says he has two stables empty? Will that list be adequate when he shows you the pig farm that's empty? Who led to this destruction of the Serbian agrarian? When I say “Serb agrarian, ” I also think of anyone who deals with warfare and who deals with vegetables, who deals with livestock, fruit growing, vineyarding, not to list other branches of agriculture. Agriculture is a stronger branch of the economy. The only one in 2009, backwards, had a surplus – the only one. You will do nothing with bad policy and it is in the interest of the Serb pair. I'll give you some more facts. In 2009, the agricultural budget was 2.2% of the government's total budget of the Republic of Serbia, which accounted for about 15 billion dinars. However, the SRS tells you -- if you do not increase that budget to 6% of the total budget of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which will cost about 30 billion dinars, for the only branch in this country that has not yet been destroyed, you will destroy it. You will destroy it, because the Serbian pair can no longer bend. The Serb pair also endured those sanctions, so he managed to survive somehow, but this year, no, with these prices set by tycoons and financial powers, which you couldn't handle, and you can't handle it, because they're putting together this government, they dictate how it should work. Here, I'll tell you that Serbian cattle farming has been ruined, destroyed and desolated in the last nine years. When I say this, I say it with argument. What else is there to say? This list was supposed to be together with the census, to reduce these billions and a half of dinars, as much as you've singled out here. I'll tell you something about these subsidies. I said that some rules, a professional peasant and an unprofessional peasant, led to the fact that 90,000 registered agricultural holdings did not receive subsidies. The IMF is now asking you to reduce subsidies in 2010, so that there are no 12000 dinars, while in Serbia's environment ranged from 300 to 400 euros per hectare. What about agricultural prices this year? Here, I'll take my turn. Which was only a difference in the price of livestock barley – last year, 2008, the price was 14.5 dinars, and this year is the cattle barley of eight dinars. The difference is 6.5 dinars. The wheat was a year and a half ago and 24 dinars. Last year it was 15 to 16 dinars. It was told to the individual producer of registered land that they would receive 9.5 dinars. Today it's on the wheat market 8.60 and no one's going to. Look at the difference that's only one kilo since last year or before last year. I'm sorry, the wheat hasn't been paid yet. The payment of the sunflower – it was paid for 14.70 dinars, and last year its price was 24 dinars. Four people here decide the price. Four men. You are satisfying them and you cannot stand in their way – Miskovic, Todorovic (owner of the Uljare in Zrenjanin), Peconi, Victoria Group, Popović, and you know who else owns Victoria Group, better not to speak after a pay phone, there is no point. But there's something the minister said at the time, I can't help but mention, and it's about fertilizer. Now we're getting to that Victoria Group. The minister says -- the problem with the use of artificial fertilisers in Serbia is in control of the quality of fertilisers. Right now, there's no such thing as real control, and the inspection is corrupt. This leads to that even when our farmer uses fertilizer, its effects are quite small. Now I'll tell you. For 100,000 tonnes in the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, 10,000 dinars per tonne were allocated in order to be acceptable to the Serbian steam, while unsubsidized fertilizer, Russian fertilizer 3 h 16 is the same price as this subsidized, "Fertilovo", held by the "Vitoria Group". You see now, gentlemen, the citizens of Serbia, how many Victoria Groups have received – 100,000 times 10,000 dinars, and it is sold at the same price as imported from Russia or Austria, at the same price. The group's Victoria is Mr Popovic and is widely said to be the owner of Mrs Djindjic in Serbia. Therefore, gentlemen, it means "Fertil" fertilizer, mixed, 11 o'clock 50 o'clock 0, or 18.46 is the same price for three sixteenes imported from Russia. That means it's 3,500 now, and in the retail sale of 3h16 we can buy for 2,730 dinars in certain cooperatives. Look, gentlemen, what is going on in this country, and we say -- here, we subsidize agriculture! Well, you subsidize individuals. You don't care about thousands of registered agricultural holdings. You don't care how to touch team seven, eight, ten people who are financial powers, who operate this country, who make up government and who do what they want with you. The SRS thing, if it led this Serbia, could not work – neither Miskovic nor Todorovic, nor Peconi, nor Micovic, nor Popovic "The Victoria Group". That's 100,000 tons per 10,000 dinar, and that fertilizer was sold until a month and a half ago at 3,250 dinars, so it went to 3,300, and today it's 3,500. Russian, 3 h 16, we produced 3 h 15, 3 h 16 is, then, stronger fertilizer, you can buy in certain cooperatives, not to advertise for this speaker, for 2,730 dinars. As you do as you do, the dusk of the Serbian agrarian has fallen greatly and the Serbian pair will no longer be able to get away with it, because you do not allow him to stand up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-04-0.u29641	Thank you. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a joint principled search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or someone who did not exercise his right under Article 93. Rules of Procedure? The People's Messenger Velimir Ilic has the word. Here you go. Will you sign up again? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-04-0.u29642	The President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you have seen for yourself, this topic today is extremely serious and we expected the ministers who gave the opening presentation to come and that, while the debate is being followed. It is repeated daily in this House. We had a Minister Dinkic who kept a letter here for an hour and then he had a little bit of a jam, he got out of the O.R. and never came back to the end of the point he exhibited. Whether there is any government interest in this parliament, and you saw for yourself with Prime Minister Cvetkovic recently said – I will commend Parliament. Should this parliament commend the prime minister, or should it seek his resignation if he does not work well? How can the Minister or the Prime Minister commend Parliament's work, be satisfied with the work of the Parliament that has chosen him to act and who controls him? That means you've turned everything upside down. Simply, Parliament as an institution loses its post. It's getting more and more demeaning from day to day. We had a minister of diaspora defending financial laws. You had, you remember well, the minister of religion who defended the laws, instead of Minister Dragutinovic, from the area of finance. It's an extraordinary inconclusion. As a People's MP, I didn't want to advertise the breach of the Rules of Procedure and criticise it, but I'm saying this is not going well. It is not good for Serbia to behave like this, simply come to Parliament and wait for hours for the Secretary-General to come. We haven't had a session in the last seven days. The session was interrupted because there was no one from the government in Parliament. Where is now some criticism of how much it costs and how can we deceive the MPs to wait here, in the halls, for the minister to show up or not? I'd like to explain one thing that is extremely important. Statistics are used to manipulate the people. Statistics therefore exist in some countries that are both unserious and in governments that are extremely unserious. It turns out, by statistics, that we all live well. Take one company, we had, what was the name of that unfortunate director, he had two million salaries, and a martyr there was 20,000. On average, great. Everyone on average lives well, no hungry ones. On average, everything is satisfactory. However, gentlemen, what are you doing in the 2011 list, 2012. etc.? The question is, will there be any population in some parts of the world at all? I recently visited the municipality of Kursumli. I'm very sorry, I don't know if there are any MPs here, 17 villages of the municipality of Kurzumli have any students. No school works in the border zone. Most likely, in the winter period, there are no residents, no chimney is smoked. What does that mean? What are you going to list there, gentlemen of the government? Who are you going to list when people aren't there? In Golia, there are no people. Schools that had 300 students, Devići – 320 students, 50 years old, how many are now? They all sit in one classroom, they're gone, in one corner, with one teacher. Who do you want to write down? I'm looking at the Bezovci, two students. It's the heart of Serbia. Two elementary school students, gentlemen. There are no children in many schools. As soon as there's no children, there's no life. Now that we get a white Schengen, half the youth will break around the world, and there is no village, the village will be empty, the grandparents will be left. You're looking forward to a white Schengen, but we create conditions for our children to stay alive and work here and travel as tourists around the world, not to go after bread with their stomachs. Recently, we have been instigating a topic here for debate, is it true, here, B 92 is leading the action that 700,000 people in Serbia are starving, and the most natural year is in the last 30 years? Why is that? Because we have an incompetent government, people unable to organize, to feed the population. How can someone starve in Serbia, gentlemen of the government, when the price of wheat is eight dinars, is the cheapest in 12 years, when a kilo of apple is three dinars? We say it's a shame. That means there's no one to organize a ransom and bring to those who need to be fed. Why? You didn't get organized. It's a shame, you're talking about the agricultural list here. What farm list? What are you going to write down? Three dinars is now a kilo of apple in ransom. Along every country road, there are crowds, mountains of apple sacks, and there is no one to buy. Winter's coming, cold's here. It'll all rot, freeze and fail. Why? Where is that Minister of Agriculture who brought out here that there would be these state and public warehouses, that all surpluses would be stored and taken care of there, so that citizens could use them? It's not gonna happen. Half of Serbia didn't turn corn. It's snowing. Why? Oil's up. There's the Minister of Energy. It's costing 35 dinars from New Year's to this day, and it's costing the corn twice as much. How can it survive? Who will remain in the country to live and where will you list this population? Therefore, there are major problems in Serbia, and you don't understand them at all, because you have strayed from the people. You don't travel to Serbia, you don't talk to the most ordinary people. This is the representatives of the ruling coalition, simply not paying attention. They come here when it's voting day, they vote, they brag about how their municipalities work great. Everything's great, everything's fine, and they're going home. They spend that one day a month and it all ends. We don't have a chance to survive. The debts are high. You're in daily debt, gentlemen, 6.5m euros. It's just loans coming in. They're just coming in. This morning, breaking news, the IMF approved three billion. Cheers. That's good. But where do we go with those debts? Who's coming back? The economy isn't working, gentlemen. Agriculture is a mess. What company worked? Do you remember "The First Five-year-old"? It was the best firm in the great Yugoslavia. Art was to destroy such a giant, such a company. Destroy one Magnochrom, destroy one Bor, destroy many companies. You'll say-- well, you've been to the government, too. Yeah, but I wasn't the finance and business minister. You have some vermin sitting in the government for nine years, which have completely destroyed banks, the banking system, the financial market, and so on. How can an economy survive with this much interest, with hard-to-get credit lines? It's all mortgages. You know that the economy owes two billion, two thousand billion dinars, right now, and the state owes, about, something more than that, annual interest on Serbia's economy is 200 billion dinars. That can't come back. How? What are these companies that are going to fill the budget? This year you've been taking commercial loans to charge your budget and you're going to push it out somehow this year, and with what next? What are the companies that are going to fill the budget next year, when they're this close to bankruptcy or bankruptcy, today thousands, and we're expecting new layoffs? Those who are fired will not contribute, will not make any commitments, will reduce purchasing power and we will come into an even more difficult situation, as far as the budget is concerned. We're on our way to a lot of borrowings. It is said: We are not in charge of the countries in the environment, but at least they force some of the businesses; they are in charge, they are in charge, they are in charge, they are in charge, they will return. You gentlemen didn't give a concession that brings clean money, you didn't give it because one of the politicians in Vojvodina said he wouldn't support the government if the concession didn't collapse. In front of me, he said, "That's why you knocked down the concession, because it was the will of Nenada Chanka." Travel a little with Serbia, you see. Here, I was in the birthplace of Moma Markovic, our MP here, at Alexine's, Coolini's, what's his name. There's no people, brother. You don't smoke any of them in big villages. Why isn't there? Because it's a good life in the country, good at agriculture. You'll come and list their population. Let's not talk about Ariel, Mr. Nikolic knows. What are you going to write there when people cut the raspberries, cut the plums? Young plantations, older, six or seven years, have been cut these days, instead of cutting fruit for next season; motorcycles are only working and everything will be cut through the furunda. Why? Because we couldn't sell the plum to ten dinars this year, and there were 11 dinars. How can a peasant survive? Is it possible that you allowed the imports of five million euros of pork from Germany? It's true, the data is correct. We imported pig meat from Holland, imported chicken from Brazil. Why? Where are the chicken farms? How many of them did we have a few years ago? They're gone today, they're gone, you're out. You have to think differently, you have to work differently, you have to organize in another way, gentlemen. You have to bring experienced businessmen, people who are capable of launching this Serbia, to have something to write, to keep the people living in these areas. I was recently frustrated when I heard in Ivanjica, now on Sunday, they say – they are inviting us now to meetings in Novi Pazar, so they agreed, and the presidents of the municipalities go to Novi Pazar for meetings. So, how far? Let New Market be... Belgrade is up to Topola, so let's bring Belgrade and Novi Pazar together. There shouldn't be anything in between. You have two ministers from the New Market holding you government and now you're going to give them, I mean... And they shall ask over the Jell-O to be their Attress, and the Pryce, and Pryboy, and now and Ivan, we shall go in turn. You will, of course, bring the Mines End and the Milanese into contact with the Whisper, because that's what someone said. We didn't even go on a field trip there, we just went there - a fight on Mishar. Don't lead us the way. How can you bring us there? For example, if the whole of Ivanica lives in Chačka, you're separated. The people can't stand this and move. You all come here to Belgrade. Almost, there will be five million people in Belgrade. Here, yesterday the snow fell a centimetre, a traffic collapse. Do you believe there were hundreds of accidents yesterday, people. That's insane. People went to the cemetery, Lesce, to the funeral, no one could go out for hours. Is it possible that in the 21st century snow half a centimetre of snow paralyzes one city of 2.5 million? Is it possible that Brank's bridge is standing two hours yesterday completely blocked and can't operate traffic? You're missing an organization. Let's get you organized from the opposition. We'll give you an organization lesson for free, every day of the day, an hour before the session starts, to teach you how to work, to get you to work. You have people. Well done to the professors, honor the assistants. We appreciate you, we respect you, but who of you spent five days in the economy? Which one of you prepared one salary? Which one of you was the manager of agricultural goods? No one, gentlemen. Find at least one of the farmers' cooperatives. You used to have, when I was an MP back in those old years, the Director of Agricultural Cooperatives. Now you don't have one, you don't have one. You put it all out, destroyed it, completely destroyed it. You can't work like this, gentlemen. You can say whatever you want. They're gonna give you these friends of yours from the world a little more credit, but they're gonna stop, too. Do you think that EU representatives do not communicate with the opposition daily, that the World Bank does not communicate with us, the EBRD? Everyone's talking to us, gentlemen, and the embassy, and they're surprised you don't do anything. They won't tell you, because they need you, you've finished the Eulex, you've completed Ahtisaari's plan, now it takes the Duke's statute to solve a number of other problems. You take credit, you bring their banks, you call them traffic. You're all doing great work on our damage. You respect a unilateral agreement with the EU. Well, if you brought someone, I don't know, from the Padin Skele, and he'd say it's wrong. Let's read it from wherever you want, but, gentlemen, you've forced us here, not from the opposition, but from most, to vote this unilateral agreement with the EU, which has completely buried the Serbian economy, especially agriculture. At the beginning of your government's term, I was saying, when I saw the prices -- you don't have a perspective in agriculture, the village will run away, disappear, die. A jack of artificial fertilizer cost two acres of maritime and forestry land. There's been three ar today, gentlemen, and there may be another year and five ar. For a bag of fertilizer, buy a place for a house in the village, wherever you want. It's nowhere in the world. Why the land is being sold. Why? To keep people alive. How do they educate children, how do they survive? The stock fund was destroyed. What are you going to write here? Imagine, in a village where a tenth of the site was built, today you don't have one June to slaughter. Do you believe that there is no Serbia now to slaughter one lamb and pig for Christmas in happy houses? What kind of household do you list? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, It takes years to rebuild. You see that no work is worth it, and what do we do, how do we survive? You will say again: We will receive a loan, and then you will tell us: "We will go to China, and we will kill some pillars." How many pillars did you kill? The other day I heard from the MPs here, he boasted, four large pillars of Serbian politics have been killed in the world. I wish you - kill you and 20 pillars, but let Serbia live, work, build. How many apartments were built in this government, gentlemen? How many kilometers of Corridor 10, two construction seasons have passed, built? Very little, you haven't even finished ten, and I think that's where Halimi... You let something go down, it's not over yet. Now you're trying this in the plain, where there's no... And you've criticised a government before, like, she didn't. She did 48 kilometers of Corridor, of which, 24 full profiles, from Leskovec to Vlasotanic loop, full profile of the highway. You have to work more organizedly, not just brag, tell us empty stories. Dinkic comes out and boasts that people will be fired, as he wants the administration, it doesn't need three papers, it needs one piece of paper, and now the list needs hundreds of papers. How much is the list? If you think good of this Serbia, you wouldn't be doing all the lists separately. One in particular, the other in particular, and the third in particular. Once you've entered a house, write down what's going on. What do you write down, if a man says - I don't have a pig, I don't have a calf, I don't have a cow, I don't have an orchard anymore, I have two kids and this woman, and we don't even know where we're going? Sign us up all of a sudden and move on. We're investing billions in some new lists, how are you going to do it, as I've noticed. So this isn't going well. Here, the other day I was in "Porecje" – Wolf, near Leskovec, 600 acres of fruit is in the weeds, weeds are bigger than fruit. If you don't believe it, look. I ask – why? They say – Dinkic did not approve a privatisation that was and 600 hectares stand; neither was the dam nor sprayed. This country has invested in it, given loans, it's going down, and nobody's doing it, and there's none of it. (President: Thank you, MP, 20 minutes.) The time at your disposal as a representative of the group has been used. That's why the Bureau of Statistics will get some data, you'll be happy and wave that you've done a great job...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-04-0.u29643	The word is held by MP Zoran Ostojic, an authorised representative of the LDP parliamentary group. (Momir Markovic: Replica. ) National MP Velimir Ilic did not give anyone grounds for replication. Please don't throw it away. I give a warning to MPs Zoran Nikolic, Miroslav Markic and Momir Markovic to disrupt the order at the National Assembly session. The People's Parliament of the Faith of Radeta wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-04-0.u29644	Ms. Comić, Article 104, paragraph 3. The Rules of Procedure say that it is not allowed to use offensive expressions, as well as to present facts and assessments relating to the private life of other persons. It is true that Mr. Velimir Ilic did not use offensive expressions when he mentioned colleagues Momir Markovic and Milan Nikolic, but it is also true that Momir Markovic's private business is that he was born in Kulina, such as Milan Nikolic's private business to live in Ariel. They're the only ones who can talk about their private matters. When I made the SRS MP's position yesterday that DS MPs are not sitting in the O.R. because, according to our assessment, they are not interested in the fact that the state intends to share tens of thousands of layoffs with civil servants and officials in local self-government, you said to me, "Mrs. Radeta, you have no right to express the facts of the private life of the MPs." What I said was about MPs whose job was to, among other things, sit in this room and participate in the work. You've estimated it to be the fact of their private life. Then I'm really surprised that you didn't appreciate today that Mr Velimir Ilic, speaking of the problems that exist today in Serbia, mentioned Momir Markovic and Milan Nikolic, because citizens who follow this parliament's work might think that Momir Markovic and Milan Nikolic are responsible for such a bad situation both in the economy and in agriculture, and Velimir Ilic made it clear that the regime currently in power in Serbia is responsible.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-04-0.u29645	There was no breach of article 104 by the MP. Had it been, he would have been warned, then warned. National MP Momir Markovic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-04-0.u29646	Mrs. Comic, you violated article 27 without giving me a replica...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-04-0.u29647	People's MP, I warn you that giving or not giving the right to a replica is not the subject of violation of the Rules of Procedure and that you are forcing me to apply Article 100(s) 7—expression of the warning measure, if you continue to knowingly violate the Rules of Procedure and demean the National Assembly. National MP Aleksandar Martinovic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-04-0.u29648	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we believe that Article 38 has been injured. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. According to article 38, the president of the parliamentary group, in writing, informs the President of the National Assembly of changes in composition...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-04-0.u29649	National MP, this is not an injury related to the direct course of the session. I warn you of Article 100(7) and the obligation to give a warning measure in case you violate Article 100. You don't have a word. The word has the People's MP Zoran Ostojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-04-0.u29650	Dear Vice-Presidents, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues, I would not have reported for a word if I hadn't heard in the past two hours about how Serbia is losing an entire city of 30 and a few thousand people annually, that Dinkic is like this and like that, from the mouth of those who, in principle, because of their policy, are the most responsible that Serbia is losing one city of 30,000 people, out of the mouth of those who sat in government with Dinkic and praised each other as the best ministers. Anyway, the set of laws we have ahead of us is necessary. It is necessary because our society needs to be regulated according to European standards. The law on classification of activity is, in principle, technical law and I wouldn't have anything to say about it. The only flaw is, as with other laws, that too much authority is given to the government. There are laws in other countries where the Assembly adopts the classification of activity, and it does not give it as a discretionary right to the Government. When it comes to the proposal for a law on official statistics, certainly after the 1990s and statistics at the time, which was the most appropriate to that Vibou that it was a state lie, we need to sort that area out. After all, managing large systems, state, company, family, is not possible without data, and data is not possible without organized statistics. There's nothing disputed about that. A controversial fact is that the Statistics Institute will give a decisive word on the region's proposal in Serbia. This is questionable because we know that one party intends to establish itself at the level of the region, or as a party of the region, and we have a slight doubt that the Statistics Institute is not being abused for these party purposes. When it comes to the 2011 Agricultural List Bill, there is nothing controversial about it either. It is clear that agriculture is a branch on which Serbia's development can be based. It is not disputed that the EU budget, in fact, is a agricultural budget and it is not disputed that if someone's interest is above all, and everyone's budget is to enter the EU, then it is certainly peasants and agriculture. After all, all those who talk about the village falling were in power for four years in continuity, so they could do something for that village, but they didn't. They'll probably say we weren't in charge of agriculture. Yesterday, we had an example of a minister they call, about the "minister of man's accident," a "man's accident trader," who says, "I only have four MPs here, so when I have more MPs, I'll be able to influence more." It is not possible to view a responsible state business as a government membership. The moment you enter the government, however weak you are, and you've accepted to enter the government, you're responsible for that government. Therefore, those who were in government, and they say they were not in charge of the resort, in principle, count briefly on the memory of citizens, and I am convinced that many citizens do not have a short memory. When it comes to the list of agriculture, it is undeniable that only the other law, which we are waiting for, about expropriation, will be the reason to talk about the disappearance of agricultural land in Serbia. We all know that, on the one hand, agricultural land disappears in Serbia, on the other hand, we know that it passes into the hands of a small number of people, and on the third hand, we know that the incentives for agriculture are not enough and in this year's budget are smaller than in last year's budget, while in the next, it is likely to be even smaller than in this year's budget. When the next law comes on the agenda, then we'll also deal with the fact that agricultural land is being exploded in this country for each other's account, foreign states. Proposal for a law on censuses, households and apartments in 2011. We need that law, and we need a list, besides this data that exists here, like the place of the mother's apartment at the time the person was born. I haven't read the previous laws, but I can't remember such data or questions, aside from which the place of residence doesn't exist in terminology, there's a place of residence or place of residence. I believe that the proposal of the Parliamentary Group of Minorities on Nationality, i.e. the collection of data on nationality and native language, is acceptable. The bill says that respondents will offer, in fact, two answers: Serbian nationality, nationality and others. That's how it was read in the Group of Minorities. We think that their amendment is quite acceptable, that they are devoting nationalities, national belongings and certainly they must be "others," because not everyone can be listed. He has the right to sign up as an Indian, and as an Eskimo, it's nothing controversial. When it comes to language, we also think that's the way it should be. After all, you have brought together the Constitution by which Serbs and others live in this country; it would be wrong for Serbs and others to be in the list, but the rest of them, too, can be listed, so if someone is not on the list of those who are listed, there can be an empty section, and it can be written. This and for the fact that we in our country still don't respect that narod and bad constitution, we don't respect it. We know the troubles in the Preboj municipality using Bosnian language. He's missing ends and middles, Mrs. Radeta, that's all he's missing. Problems of using Bosnian language in the Priboj municipality. We also have the latest example where students of the Faculty of Islamic Studies in Novi Pazar, members of the Islamic religion, are discriminated against by the Ministry of Faith's scholarship contest. This contest objectively calls and gives the opportunity to apply for a scholarship students of all universities, Catholics and others, except for this university. So, I'm just warning that statistics should not be another reason for the citizens of this country to feel hurt, as these people of this country are feeling injured at the Faculty of Islamic Studies in Novi Pazar, who cannot apply for a scholarship, unlike what was written in the contest, that they can compete with students of Serbian nationality from neighbouring countries. So, a Serb from Temisovar or a Serb from Banja Luka can win a scholarship to Serbia, but cannot win a Bosniak scholarship to study Islamic studies in Novi Pazar. I am simply afraid that this "other" in this list contributes to a further sense of discrimination by Serbian citizens. I insist on the term "Citizens of Serbia", and the fact that some Serbian nationalities, and citizens of other countries, are paying taxes, are being educated there, and someone is offering them a scholarship from our money, money from the taxpayers of Serbia, which means both Serbs, and Bosniaks, and Hungarians, is the nascade policy we talked about when it comes to the Diaspora Act. I think it would be acceptable to meet a little more with what other ethnic communities suggest, so I think this amendment could be adopted. You'll think about it, or you'll answer in the day we talk in detail. I know Mr. Skundric is formally awaiting a different law, but I think he'll be welcomed tomorrow. Not "a little tomorrow," but tomorrow. I think your law deserves to be more public than anyone had planned. When it comes to the law on agriculture, i.e. the census law, that is to say, all buildings and buildings are to be written, and nothing is to be disputed, except for the property owned by foreign states. However, there are many cases where, in fact, there is an object, but that object is almost no longer an object. One example, I personally became convinced, is, for example, the hotel "Mir" in Babusnica. It's a hotel that was built on a rock in 1979. There's a spa, a Zvornička spa, and from that hotel, there was this whole neighborhood; food, people were busy, there was a lot of doctors, there was a physiotherapist at that Zvornička spa. Then what happened? Then this privatisation in such a small and hidden environment led to the fact that it was leased, so there was some crime. In any case, the lease expired, and the one who rented it took away everything that was possible to take away. It's possible to take the door, doors, cables, installations, but that renter also carries the walls. In fact, there remains an object, when looked at, looks like an object, but it's impossible to write it down as an object that should exist. Now it's another thing. The Privatisation Agency and the MUP are supposed to deal with it, but I'm just talking about things that look like objects, and they'll probably be on the list, because there used to be an object, they'll be listed, and that'll give us some unreal picture, conditionally speaking, of social wealth. I think it's something to take care of, and that there must be some sort of criterion when it's listed. Because if the stables and the sheds are listed as some kind of object, we'll think we're richer, and it's a long time ago when we've learned to ourselves that we're a rich country, developed, etc. Now we have to come down to reality. We in the LDP insist on reality, unlike some others, who continue to fantasize about some great Serbs or some sort of gubert of Russian etc. I must say that we from the Serbian Liberal Party, excuse me, the Liberal Democratic Party opposition to you in the ruling majority, the opposition to the government, as well as the opposition, because what we propose differs from what those in power have done under Kostunica, is different from the anti-European policy of Kostunica's government. Of course it's different from the Lord who had the chance to make politics come true in the 1990s. That's the policy that led to people moving out of this country, not coming. The split into two wings, meanwhile, is their internal matter, but it is undeniable that the policy led by the single Serbian radicals led to what they are now criticising. They now say, well, we are disappearing, women are giving birth to one child, and they need two etc., and they do not realize that 500,000 young people left the country when their policy, through their direct participation or indirect support of Milosevic's regime, came true. I think it's hypocritical to talk about the effects of your policy, and you did everything to make it so. Gentlemen of the Serbian Radicals, 500,000 people who have left the country, I am sticking to the subject and I am talking about the census, that each of them has got one child in the entity, which means that there are now a million people in the country less because of that policy, and the hypocrisy is now someone else's charge. So Velimir Ilic says Dinkic is like this and like this. He's not doing well now, and for four years he sat in that government and praised him as the best minister. This one spoke to him, the Duke, and this one to him, the Serdars, and when they split up, he is not well with Dinkic. We at the LDP are trying to run consistent policies. Many times what we're saying doesn't like people. He doesn't like the man when he goes to the doctor, so he asks him, "Doctor, what's wrong with me?" He doesn't like the doctor telling him the truth. But when we all go to the doctor, we want the doctor to tell us the truth, not to lie to us. So, I think, essentially, we're wasting our time at debates that serve only to be debates. We of the LDP want to make a concrete contribution to reforming the law... Mrs. Comic, I'm really not able to speak. [[Zagor in the O.R.]] We believe that this policy has led to everyone becoming a Europe, and those who have a badge, and those who have taken off the badge, and those who have burned down the American and other Western embassies, and those who want to become European left-wings, all now want to join the EU, good for the country, and I really think that in the future we should compete in who will bring Serbia into the EU faster and more effectively. We LDP don't doubt that we're the best in the business, but it's possible that someone else will beat us to it. It certainly can't be those who took 20 years to realize that Split is not in Serbia, who talked about the borders that are in another country, but it's good, only a fool doesn't change his mind. You don't need to change your mind so often or, to be fairer, you shouldn't suddenly change your mind, because when a big curve is made, and when you get into the corner, those behind you fall. It's the policy of other parties. On behalf of the LDP, I say these laws are in principle good. I think the amendments can be fixed. I hope that on the day we discuss in particular that the government will accept some amendment and opposition, and I hope that the opposition gentlemen will also show little more responsibility for the country. In a way, we're all in the same business, gentlemen. The fact that you fell out of power, lost power, that was the will of the citizens or the will of some coalition partners you expected, and you underestimated, but be patient. I remember earlier, when the first government of Vojislav Kostunica was formed and when Velimir Ilic finally became minister, when they started from the opposition to talk about the elections, that the government should be torn down, the new elections, the man spoke – so I guess we won't, every year of the election. Here, now every year elections, but it's politics...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-04-0.u29651	Finish your thought, People's Messenger, because time has been used.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-04-0.u29652	This is a policy from which LDP certainly differs and will continue to differ. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-04-0.u29653	Thank you. I understand that a number of MPs want a word about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and that it is unclear why their electronic voting units do not respond. They don't react because the system is such that it records only four names and then resets, but a full list of names has been recorded, whoever checked in at any time, that you don't think any of you are damaged to receive a word from the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. So, the word was sought by the MPs Velimir Ilic, Marko Milenković, Tomislav Ljubenović, Aleksandar Martinović, Dragan Šormaz, Vjerica Radeta, Dragan Todorovic, Zoran Popović, Mico Rogovic, please, for those who want... National MP Momo Colaković and MP Zoran Babic, these MPs I have not even been able to see. Here, and they're in the electronic system. So from the MPs who signed up for the word, who wants the word? National MP Dragan Todorovic, then MP Dragan Šormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-04-0.u29654	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Staying, I assume it was a small inaccuracy, since you were based solely on the law, so you made one small trip. I don't suppose you had any intention of doing it for any other reason. I must tell you that it is not logical for you, as an opposition, to be our opposition, because we are also an opposition party. I think we are the most consistent opposition party, to show this through our work in the Parliament of the Republic of Serbia. We are ideologically different, your ideology and our ideology are completely different. We do not agree with you, we do not agree with your political views, but we respect you as a party and we respect the right to express your opinion, your views, to fight for it, and the assessment of giving citizens of Serbia. We think they're the only ones who have the right to judge and, at the moment they go to the polls, say whether they accept someone's policy, someone's program, and no one else's. Unfortunately, we are in the country today, as we have been before, when the ruling majority is trying to be that judge who will determine the fate of the parties that have entered Parliament, by giving one more rights and the other less rights. We're fighting principledly. We fight to create principles, because democratic principles essentially protect the minority from the terror of the majority. In theory, most of them could declare and take away our mandates. They've got most of it. They don't agree with us. They simply come to propose it on the agenda, vote, finish the job. You can see what kind of situation we are in – the Administrative Committee, by its tyranny, decides against the will of the individual, which is asphyxiation of human rights and freedom. Is there greater tyranny than not to exercise a constitutionally guaranteed right to express his wish or to resign as MPs? The chairman of the Administrative Committee, who is a member of the DS, appears because it is of political interest to them, and does not allow it. You have a situation where the SRS has 22 mandates, plus two mandates, i.e. We cannot replace two MPs because of the terror scene of the ruling majority.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-04-0.u29655	Three minutes. National MP Dragan Shormaz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-04-0.u29656	Replica. I don't know what happened to Mr. Ostojic to mention the DSS so many times, Vojislav Kostunica. It's not the government of Vojislav Kostunica, it's Boris Tadic. If the government were Vojislav Kostunica, it would be 400 euros in average salary in Serbia, it would not fall to 300, as it fell. It wouldn't be 7% drop in social production, but 7.5% growth, as it was. I understand you guys have factions, like when you were in the DS, though, you're not. You have the Serbian Liberal and Liberal Democratic. You're probably Liberalally democratic, and Mr. Maras is Serbian Liberal. He and the gentleman from New Vienna, Verulov, like to sing Serbian folk songs and to rejoice, and I understand that, but I don't know what's wrong with you all the time. You are against the Constitution, and suddenly you will vote for the Statute of the Vojvodina which is in line with the Constitution. A logical mistake with you. If that constitution is not good, the Statute of the Duke can't work either. Either you're for him, or you're against him, but you're the fifth wheel in the government of Boris Tadic, the spare wheel in the trunk, and whenever you need to, you jump out, whether it's the Information Act, or the Duke's statute. They're free of Chanku. He's, like, against it now, and he's gonna go outside and he's not gonna vote for the law. That's what he said today. They've accepted to be the new city of the capital? It'll be anything. Let Vojislav Kostunica go. This is where the government is now. And we didn't fall out of power, we got out of power. We were able to build a government with radicals, with the SPS; we returned the mandate, i.e. Vojislav Kostunica returned the mandate to the people, entered the campaign honestly, we didn't lie, we didn't cheat, we didn't talk, we promised 300,000 new jobs, or 500, or 200, we didn't say that "Fiyat" would invest $800m, we didn't say that the SAA would sign, and we didn't tell the citizens that it would be blocked, there would be no trade agreement. We got into a fair campaign. We said what we thought of Kim. We didn't sign the protocols. You call often for CEFTA, and then the gentlemen come out of this government and boast that the only surplus this year is with the CEFTA countries, 700 or 800m euros we're in plus with CEFTA states. We're all down with everyone else. Why do you mention Americans? What do they have to do with the EU? They are not in the EU. They're on the UN Security Council, on another continent. We want to join the EU on our terms, under EU conditions, but honestly, as every country deserves; as everyone else has entered, so do we. That's all we say. Leave us alone.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-04-0.u29657	Three minutes. People's MP Velimir Ilic, right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-04-0.u29658	I'll be very brief, I have nothing special to replicate. I'm very sorry when some people change completely. Exclusively, Zoran Ostojic was my adviser for a few years in New Serbia and I was pleased. Here's how far he got. What are you going to do, the man is changing and maybe he wanted to mention -- I was in the government, it's true, but then the milk was 15 dinars, not 34 dinars, apples, not three dinars, but 25 dinars at a ransom price, cherry, not 12 dinars, but 30 dinars. The peasant lived much better. A bag of artificial fertilizer was three times cheaper, oil was over 40 dinars a liter cheaper. Prices were significantly higher than corn, wheat, and the farmer, I might say, lived well. As minister, I have done a great deal for the Serb village. Thousands of miles of roads along the Kopalnik, hill-mounted area, the goal area, the expanse area, all over Vojvodina. The villagers know that best. Wherever it was supposed to be, it came and did something. Gentlemen, you do something, don't just tell stories. I'm not mad. It's true, but it was much better. We owed the state a million and 700 000 euros daily, not 6.5m euros in debt. The economy was growing. Agriculture has had exceptional growth. Hundreds of coolers have been made throughout the country, so I don't keep counting. So if you'd just maintained that level, I'd have taken your hat off and welcomed you and I'd be delighted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-04-0.u29659	People's MP, Free Maras, right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-04-0.u29660	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I have volunteered to replicate to Mr. Shormaz, who has, by no means, challenged me. Mr. Shormaz, LDP doesn't have a faction and LDP is all you're not. You called us just a spare point, or a fifth point of power. Of course you're wrong, but the fact is that you're a punctured wheel, Mr. Shormaz, a wheel that has such a hole that you'll never be able to get high again and you'll never be able to do to this country everything that Mr. Ostojić was talking about. Mr Ostojić, when he mentioned the governments in which you participated, that is, when he linked it to this law, connected it with the consequences of the governments in which the DSS participated. So, that's what makes it so small, which is why a lot of people moved out. That's what those sitting across from us are responsible for. I don't see why you needed to attack the LDP in such a way, leaving the topic. Mr Ostojić only spoke about the consequences of your policy, the consequences of the SPS policy, the SRS, when he spoke about this law. Of course, he wanted to point out that this law could have had its advantages, of course it could indicate that it was not quite clear why Vojvodina does not have a statistical office, which is problematic. Everything he said, I think he said in the direction in which the citizens recognize it. We look forward to a debate on the next item of the agenda, to see why Mr. Skundric came to this hall. He had to attend instead of other ministers, but I know he wants us to talk about the next law coming up on the agenda too. Without any desire, Mrs. Comic, I'd like to point out to you that we're just having a session, I think we should go back to the agenda and start tomorrow where we left off.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-04-0.u29661	I thank you for your help and for your reminder, MP. Carefully listening to all the discussions during today's debate in principle, if you don't believe me, you can identify it with a stenogram, almost none of the MPs held firm with a member of the 106th and a commitment to talk about the agenda. Since the topic is such that it allows different arguments to be used in the criticism or commendation of laws concerning state statistics, the list of agricultural landowners and the like, all four, not to quote them, official statistics, the classification of activity, the census and the list of agriculture, as allowed by one MP to spread the subject, so is allowed for all. If you think I didn't have a good session, you have the right to express it through a request that a member of 27 has been broken. MP Zoran Ostojić, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-04-0.u29662	Indeed, Madam Vice President, I had no intention of offending anyone. I'm sorry if anyone was offended. In a way, I hurt the Parliament's dignity with that lapus, when I mentioned the Serbian Liberal Party, and this time I have to apologize to all the voters of the Liberal Democratic Party and membership, if there is one, since there is no Serb Liberal Party. Mr. Todorovic, when I say that we are your opposition, I do not dispute you, I do not deny that you are the opposition, but I say that we are the opposition to the ruling majority and opposition to you. That doesn't mean you're not the opposition. You didn't understand me very well. After all, you from the party, as I say, your historical leader knows best what the opposition is to the opposition. It seems to me that at one point in the 1990s, your leader developed the very role of the opposition to the opposition. Mr. Shormaz and Mr. Ilic, I have no intention of answering. Simply, Mr. Shormaz, the consequences are consequences, and the attitude, just to remind you – Mr. Kostunica could not return the mandate to the people, because he did not get it from the people, but only Boris Tadic, because he received it from Boris Tadic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-04-0.u29663	National MP Dragan Todorovic, right to replica, then MP Dragan Šormaz, and I ask you to address it by closing the lines of replicas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-04-0.u29664	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Ostojic, thank you for mentioning the time in which Vojislav Seselj, first of all, was for a time the only SRS MP, 1991, and already in 1992, thanks to his greatest work in the Serbian Parliament, the citizens of Serbia elected 72 MPs from the SRS. As Vojislav Seselj was right, the current situation in Serbia best says. He was an opposition to those who are now in power, those who have destroyed Serbia. Only that contract with JAT Airways is enough by the ministry led by Minister Dinkic to understand how much this is a pest control. It's the best proof that they should have been the opposition. But, Mr. Ostojic, citizens recognize politics, recognize the programme and recognize who it stands for, and I will try to prove to you how much damage these are, how much Serbia's destroyers are; it is simply amazing how they robbed Serbia and Serbian citizens. I will try to make sure that at the next points that are on the agenda documented, that it will not be a story of whether or not I love someone, whether we value someone or not, I show them how they rob Serbia. It's just amazing how they all managed to rob her and they're still in that situation. There's little left, there's public enterprises, first of all, at the republican level, as well as public enterprises at the local level, that's what they have left. After that, they literally finished the job. Therefore, it was worth fighting against them at the time of the opposition, because we recognised the servants of the West, those who are against the state and national interests and the citizens of Serbia and the state of Serbia. This is what Vojislav Seselj demonstrated best in both the Serbian Parliament and the Federal Assembly. We are trying as hard as we can to show the citizens of Serbia all the conditions of the collapse that Serbia has come into and we believe that, after certain information, they will finally understand who they are dealing with... (The speaker speaks from the scene, without the microphone:... And the next election will take that into account. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-04-0.u29665	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Dragan Shormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-04-0.u29666	It is known that the government of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Ostojic, has 126 MPs in the assembly. What Boris Tadic? If the other 126 had made a deal, I remind you, after Vojislav Kostunica's resignation, Boris Tadic would have had to give it, according to the constitution, a mandate to form the government. It's not his job, it's the work of a people who, in part, have been delegated to him, not by his name and last name, but by the institution of the President of the Republic, according to the Constitution. I'm not dealing with LDP. I was talking about the consequences of the government of Vojislav Kostunica. We obviously didn't understand each other. As a result, when he took over the government of Zoran Zivkovic, where the Deputy Prime Minister was Cedomir Jovanovic, the average earnings in Serbia were 130 euros. When he handed over to Vlad Cvetkovic – 380. When you're counting pensions, gentlemen of the PUPS, 60% of the 380 is more than the current 300 70%? Here, nod, confirm. Even if they gave you 70%, which was a promise, which is why you formed a government with them, and none of it does. It's your fault. No one else can be blamed for what the pensioners are in right now. You didn't get a good estimate. The government of Vojislav Kostunica has paid back its debts, this government owes the country. That's a fact. Look at the statistics -- the growth of the economy was several times bigger, and now it's a drastic decline, one of the biggest in Europe. It is the most incompetent government in Serbia's history, not since World War II, but in Serbia's history it is the most incompetent government. That's what I was saying. Cohabitation wasn't. (Zoran Ostojić, from the place: They cannot be compared due to cohabitation. That's why they're like that? Okay. As for the other things, here, Mr Ilic said well – in the Smederjev area, the ransom price of peach was 25 dinars in 2007, and now there are eight dinars. Is there such a fall in other countries? Where's that agriculture budget? You've been reducing it year after year, three times since this government, and I'm not saying you don't deliver budgets to this assembly. So if we're talking about the EU, which you're up against from the LDP, why don't you go after them for being late with the budget? They'll, like last year, give us a budget rebalance first, so they'll give us a budget, and we'll all have to adopt it by New Year's, just like last year, when they said we were going to get ahead in the crisis, that she was our chance, that we'd be better when we said that what happened was going to happen. So, if anyone knows how to work, they have results, you can see that. He who does not know, behold, it is seen: they do not know how to work.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-04-0.u29667	Thank you. Is there anyone who hasn't used his right to Article 93? There's a word from MP Momo Colakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-04-0.u29668	The Honorable President-in-Office, the Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Ministers and the Representatives of the Government, the Honorable People's MPs, I intended to speak of a set of four laws that were on the agenda. Since our honourable MP Sinisa Stamenkovic spoke very comprehensively this morning, specifically and very clearly, we made our contribution to improving the laws, we made certain amendments. In this regard, I think we will contribute to improving the solutions offered. I wanted to say, too, that we would give our vote for the laws in the voting day in the Assembly. In the end, let me say that I don't fit in with the discussion that preceded my report. Just to point out that the consequences, by the way, most of the MPs spoke of pensions, clear and accurate, and it is known from which period they originate.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-04-0.u29669	People's MP, I apologize, there was no basis for you to get the word; there was a mistake on our part. The mandated representative of the PUPS Group has used all the time, and now we are in the course of a session where only those who did not exercise their right under Article 93, and it refers to authorised representatives or presidents, if they have time left. There's no time left for your MP group.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-04-0.u29670	We've got six minutes left. Thank you very much, I said mine. Madam Chairman, I thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-04-0.u29671	I thank you, too, and I'm sorry. I've got it covered. It's not your fault to think you have the right to speak. National MP Srdjan Milivojevic, violation of the Rules of Procedure? (No) I thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) I ask the MPs, if they wish to help me conduct the session, to read the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Minister or representative of the Government is asking for a word after the debate in particular, not after the debate in principle. I ask you to read first the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, with a lot of goodwill and in cooperation, which I hope and in the future. I'd like to thank you in advance. I am concluding a joint principled search on the draft law on classification of activity, the draft law on official statistics, the draft legislation on censuses, households and dwellings in 2011 and the 2011 Agricultural List Act. This concludes our work today and continues the session tomorrow, November 5th, with a joint review of the draft law on the establishment of public interest in the expropriation of immovableity for the construction of the Master's gas pipeline MG-11, the draft law on pipeline transport of gas and liquid hydrocarbons and distribution of gas hydrocarbons, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Mining and the draft law on the termination of the Association Act in the Community of the Yugoslav Electropora. We start the morning part tomorrow at 10 o'clock. Thank you.
