ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20354	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs Dejanovic, I must make an observation as you chair the Serbian Parliament. The description of your job says that you have to make sure that this assembly works on the basis of the Rules of Procedure. This means that the obligations that are required by the Rules of Procedure must be met by all sides, by MPs, and by those institutions that have ties with the Serbian Parliament, these are primarily government and individual ministers. It's a matter of MPs. The parliamentary question is an institution that involves a certain degree of democracy, because the right to ask a parliamentary question and to get a large answer to it allows the public to come up with some information that is important for our events and for our overall life. Unfortunately, however, when it comes to parliamentary issues and this institution, we have not gone far on the road. I think I'm waiting for the longest answer to one of the parliamentary questions I've asked since 2001, when the then government reportedly did not get an answer, it allowed American inspectors to tour the entire dedicated industry of the then Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. That's how it went on to this day. Among other things, as early as last year, it seems to me, in June or July, that I asked a parliamentary question about the building or the Palace of Uste, primarily in the way it was privatised, and asked the question of the 2001 law on the property of the Alliance of Communists of Yugoslavia. Let me remind you, under that 2001 law, the right to dispose of the property, worth 50%, had parliamentary parties. If the law had been applied, the mouth palace could never be privatised and one of the biggest corruption and criminal affairs in our country would not have occurred. I asked that question even then to answer me – what about this law? What about some 300 facilities owned by the Alliance of Communists of Yugoslavia, because the right to use 50% had the 2001 parliamentary parties? Now one objective question is asked – is the law or is it not respected in this country? If the law is respected, why could parliamentary parties not use the property of the Alliance of Communists of Yugoslavia under the law? To make a difference – do some parties use this property and do not use others? Is that property being sold or sold, has it already been sold, and we don't know anything about it? That's the objective problem we're facing. Also, a dozen-fifth days ago, I remind you again, I asked a question about that strange device upstairs across from the SRS parliamentary group on the balcony. I'm told there's an answer. I don't really know how long it takes to get that answer because I expect to get an answer where it's going to be said that it's a wide-angle camera, which follows the work of the Serbian Parliament all the time and that based on the footage of this camera, because it's being kept, we'll be able to determine how the theft was done here when the vote was held, because they weren't MPs...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20355	Time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20356	You don't like to hear about the theft in the Serbian Parliament, and with the help of this camera and her record, we could see it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20357	It's been five minutes, Mr. Todorovic, you have an hour in front of your eyes and you see how long it's been.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20358	I'm sorry, I was looking at the camera, but thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20359	Mr Todorovic, I would like to inform you and all MPs that the Assembly has made an emergency with the Government, to all institutions and individuals to whom we have sent parliamentary questions, and I will receive a report for some of the coming days on how much is answered and who is not answering questions. I'll let you know. As for the 2001 Palace "Moses" and the Law on the Property of the 2001 Alliance of Communists of Yugoslavia, we will urinate this in a special and very specific way today. As far as the cameras are concerned, it's an RTS camera covering the entire O.R., and thanks to that camera, we've got a public record. Thank you. Mr. Nikola Krpić.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20360	I have an unusual question and I would like you to understand that I do not wish to speak against the Ministry of Health or the Minister himself, but I would ask Mr. Minister to intervene. The student is the mother of Serbian monasterys. The student is also the first Serbian hospital. St. Sava went from there, formed the first hospital, and that's what we look forward to in Europe. What does it look like now? There's a dental clinic upstairs that's made with equipment super-modern, but local self-government has no hearing to set up a doctor. If we go down 20 kilometers lower, in the mouth, a mining site, there's also an office, there's everything, but we don't have a dentist doctor to work there. Now we come to the key word – if a child or a pregnant woman is now around the campus monastery, which is 20 kilometers away in space, has a toothache, they have to go to the Kings 100 kilometers and 100 kilometers to get medical attention. My duty as an MP from that area is to help Mr. Secretary solve these petty problems. I think he's tiny, but very big for that people. The PUPS here in Belgrade, in our party, complains MPs, complains to the council, for the reason that local self-government has no hearing to open it. Mr. Prof. Dr. Vlad Baltic, director of the Institute of Oncology from Sremska Kamenica, has been organising a study academy, medically, for 13 years now. Indeed, there the Serbian Doctor's Society has set up a record for the Serbian hospital for eight centuries, but when foreign doctors come to see us, we come to an absurd. The first Serbian hospital, offices exist, no doctors. I'd like to ask Mr. Minister to intervene on local self-government, that this neighborhood of miners and children, whom he has over 1200 at school, get a doctor.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20361	The word is Mr Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20362	The SNS is launching the "Open the National Theatre" action and so I ask you to refer this question to the Minister of Culture – why is Serbia the only country in the world where the National Museum does not work, does not receive visitors and exhibits that represent us as a country of the old ages, are not available to the public? Who is in the interest of no one in the world knowing that Serbia existed before their countries? Who is in the world's best interest that no one in the world knows that we have artists who are but couples with artists whose works are exhibited in the Louvre or other museums? We'll alert the public of Serbia, we're not looking for anyone's responsibility. We all seem a little guilty of not having a National Museum. We will also try to provide funds from prominent museums in the world, who want to help Serbia introduce itself in the world, but please, I know that you have great respect for art, you can also see it by yourself, please help the National Museum finally open its doors, not just for the citizens of Serbia, and it is necessary for these children, but also for foreigners that I hear, you attract in Belgrade various contents, but you just can't show them the National Museum and history of Serbia through the centuries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20363	Thank you, Mr. Nikolic. Of course, the question will be forwarded to Mr. Culture Minister. Zoran Nikolic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20364	I have a question for the current prime minister, Mr. Cvetkovic. In his exposé of July 7th last year, we had the opportunity to hear all that the ruling coalition had promised in the campaign. Among other things, he said in an exposé that Serbia will have a steady growth in economic activity, employment growth, an increase in Serbia's citizens' standards and a steady regional development. The government's goal, he noted, is that GDP is growing at 7% over the next four years and that the planned GDP growth rate is slightly above the average rate over the last three-year period. He was probably joking, but unfortunately the citizens of Serbia. Also, an increase in the real GDP level by about 30% over the next four years will reduce Serbia's economic and social problems and contribute to reducing the country's economic lagging relative to the regional and European environment. Expected results: 200,000 jobs. That's what the Prime Minister said. The drop in inflation from the current level to about 4%. It's May 26th, I think we've gone a long way past that 4% number in the first 4-5 months. The growth of industrial production, but besides industry, points out our current prime minister, Mr Cvetkovic, agriculture is also a significant business branch for Serbia and it is therefore important to define an adequate agrarian policy, which should respond to the need to improve the situation in this area. We opened a topic yesterday, first of all, provoked by a regulation that came out in the May 15th Official Messenger, where agricultural pensioners are being abolished, or subsidies of 30% promised and planned will be paid. When I say "promised," then the regulation that came out in mid-February. I'm not asking the question of the Minister, he's not here, because when I opened the topic of agriculture, this applies first of all to Prime Minister Cvetkovic. Pensioners who have a large pension of eight thousand dinars and who can therefore live great and enjoy their descendants, play with their grandchildren, provide them with everything they need on the one hand, on the other hand, this regulation has deprived them of the right to receive subsidies, as well as all other agricultural producers. What is a particular question that I expect Prime Minister Cvetkovic to answer is the following – which natural and legal persons received funds for subsidies in 2008 and 2009 in what terms? Only this regulation will save several billion dinars, up to seven billion dinars, or not be paid to farmers, who are farmers. Is it done to give money to someone who has big possessions? Maybe it's not that unusual, I'll just give you some examples. For example, the biggest users of subsidies in America are Rockefellers, Ted Turner, owner of SNN, Scotty Pippen who is a famous basketball player, owner of Microsoft – Paul Allen. In Manhattan alone, on one street you have 562 users of subsidies from the area of agriculture. In the EU, it is Queen Elizabeth, Philip Morris, Heineken, etc. Are these funds being cut off from agricultural pensioners here, and they're planning to be given to some of our domestic Rockefellers? That is the fundamental question, and on that basis, I repeat that question once again, I expect an answer from the prime minister. It is a particular one – which natural and legal persons received funding for subsidies in 2008 and 2009 and at what amounts?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20365	The word is from Ambassador Aleksandra Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20366	I have a question for the Minister of Culture. It shouldn't be Hamlet, so to conclude that something rotted in the state, especially in the Serbian culture. What is the first question is, why has the current minister decided to elect Mr Branislav Dimitrijevic as assistant minister for international relations, European integration and development of cultural management? Whether on the basis of his statement that independent Kosovo is the only solution, a 2007 statement, I will then give you a photocopy. He means the only piece taken from Voja Brajovic, probably on the basis of a statement that independent Kosovo is the only solution, or perhaps based on the fact that he is by chance the son of Professor Vojin Dimitrijevic. So again, the subject of nepotism. Now, speaking of nepotism, the second question is – why did his wife, the wife of the ministerial assistant concerned, and the sister-in-law of Professor Vojin Dimitrijevic, Branislav Angelkovic-Dimitrijević, come to the post of director of the Museum of Contemporary Art? In 2001, she had a medium professional training, she was an imperfect student, but I have no doubt that in the meantime, through such powerful channels, she might have ended something. However, what is also the question, how did she introduce Soros' Open Society Fund at the Museum of Contemporary Art, to use, in the form of, mutual co-operation, all museum infrastructures without compensation by 2007? What is very important, too, is that the director's husband, and said deputy minister, Mr Branislav Dimitrijevic, continues to work as an external associate of the Museum for the Most Different Exhibitions. There were really fantastic performances, I'll also give you photocopies, here, these are performances. I have to read this in the original. Mr. Zivko Grozdanić – I am ready to smoke everyone who will provide a new museum building. Shock art "Metheorska Rain", the same favorite artist Mr. Branislav Dimitrijevic, a certain Zivko Grozdanić, who made that fantastic exhibition, the Stone of Patriarch Pavel. This is what the picture itself says. Exciting in front of a powerful form, Onania in front of Mestrovic's sculpture. So there were more exhibitions, such as, uh, naked men washing the floor, etc. I don't really know what this is about. This is the Ministry of Culture who normally likes to finance "Quiria", and doesn't like to finance Hilandar, but he seems to like these exhibitions that are slightly deguant. There's one more question. In the meantime, the museum is displaced and I'm very interested in whether the paintings are safe, because when the pictures are found at Junior's, then their safety is seriously compromised. Namely, the paintings are currently reportedly located in Mr Dinkic's safes, while this museum at the mouth is being renovated, probably to the eshaton, because the tasked contractor is the company "Monter", of course, the company underwent yellow, and which has so successfully performed the works that today this museum, which was supposed to be in office, is sneezing. Meanwhile, they bought a villa on Botic Street and now a lady assistant minister of women, and Vojin's sister-in-law and team bought a kitchen in Eurosalon green, yellow in the head, and green probably in the soul, paid more than 500,000 dinars in Eurosalon kitchen for the Museum of Contemporary Art, with all the dishwasher, necessary. Of course, they rented that space to their friends. There were parties, so Mr. Dinkic was having a strawberry and champagne party, there were people who were smoking next to Sava Šumanović, so security had to intervene, it's not convenient to smoke next to Šumanović and other pictures, they brought Philip Morris, Grace Jones. And what's even more beautiful is that's where the godmother of the concerned, Branislava Angelkovic-Dimitrijević, often doesn't use this, so that you don't see a relationship with your husband, especially when it comes to financial projects. This is where their godfather, the architect of New Belgrade, got married. Fantastic. The conservative and technical service are at Drajzer's Pass, the former street of Rodoljub Colaković, several curators at the Dobrović gallery in King Petar, and these are gardening in the villa in Boticovo. All of that, in the financial crisis, they managed to buy a fifth car. They've got Dodge, south, damage, furgon, and the director loves it wide, so she's got a 307 peso. (President: Time. Bring the end, please. I'm interested in what this is all about and I'm asking for an answer from the Minister of Culture.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20367	Does anyone else want to use the right of Article 235? Rules of Procedure? Mr. Vladan Batic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20368	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am indirectly asking the question of the Justice Minister and I am looking for an answer that she can get through the D.A.'s Attorney General, I hope she can get: What about the criminal charges against Alexander Tianic that I filed four years ago to the Special Prosecutor for Organized Crime in September 2005, in connection with the purchase of a package of Universal Films, through the phantom of Digitrak? There's no answer. I've asked Minister V.D. several times. First Special Prosecutor for Organized Crime, and now V.D. Attorney General Slobodan Radovanovic's case. Criminal charges are either prosecuted by applying for initiation of an investigation, by pressing charges, or by dismissing them. It's not thrown away, it's not processed, it's been for four years. When do you think ordinary citizens will get to justice, if, as a MP, I ask that question countless times to the Republic's prosecutor and answer never exists? Someone will think it's the politicization of the judiciary. No, as someone who came up with material evidence in the form of a contract, means documents, not words, I said, I did what my civic duty was, filed a criminal report. Similar criminal charges against the same man and others were filed in connection with the production of PGP RTS gramophone plates and fate and criminal charges are identical. I repeat, she could have been rejected or processed, and she can't possibly stand in a drawer. I ask the answer to that question from Slobodan Radovanovic, and also from V.D. District Attorney Zagorka Dolovac, who is silent about all this. What's especially embarrassing and embarrassing is the prosecution's silence in the Topcider case, it's a shame and a shame. The case went to the FBI, US experts, ballistics and forensics, Dragan Jakovljevic and Drazen Milovanovic were shot on October 5th 2004. So Radovanovic himself said on one television show that they were apparently killed. It's been seven months since the latest artificial findings and nothing's happened. Why don't you shut up, V.D. The district attorney? Where's her soul going? Finally, let me ask the Minister of Ecology, who either doesn't respond or when he answers, those answers are pointless. Is there a study on the impact of the thermal power plants Nikola Tesla A and B, and the construction of the third is planned, on the microclimate in Obrenovac and the environment? That microclimate is completely disrupted. In that area, it rains three or four times less than before the construction of the thermal power plant. And what falls, it's so-called. acid rain. Completely biospheres or biotypes or biocenosis are disrupted. The Sava temperature is one or two degrees downriver from the thermal power plants. The whole plant and animal world, the air, the earth, the water is ruined. Children are suffering from carcinogenic diseases, respiratory disease, respiratory disease, chronic asthma, and construction of a new thermopower plant is planned. Will a special study on environmental protection be built for this, a special environmental study, because if they are so full of mouths to this government of Europe, so Europe insists on that?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20369	Thank you, Mr. Batic. Of course all your questions will be forwarded, above all, to the Ministers of Justice and the Government. I would take advantage of the opportunity, since the public is already familiar, to inform you that Mr. Tijanic, director of RTS, has sent a letter to the Assembly regarding the content of the discussion of Mr. Andric, and this letter itself for information, is about participation in the discussion on 20 May this year, sent to Mr. Andric, in order to inform him and to act according to his assessment. The essence of the letter sent to me and the public is quite informed that Mr Tijanic is a man, as he says, who, neither from feathers nor from Kalashnikov, has ever fired, and that the qualifications that are being given here go to the harm of his personality and the Assembly. I am taking advantage of the opportunity to care for the dignity of the congregation. Thank you. Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20370	Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have come to the attention of a member of the Rules of Procedure who allows me to point out the great misunderstanding of what Mr Andric said, and what you have interpreted here, taking my view of the position of the person who, above all, is in one very responsible place, at the place of the Director of Public Service, who does not actually exist thanks to the fact that he is in that position. Mr. Andric was very responsible for participating in a discussion that is self-beating for the Assembly, not because Mr. Andric said what everyone in this hall and country knows about Aleksandr Tijanic, which is why he is, in fact, the Director of Public Service, or what should be Public Service, but because we were having a discussion here knowingly agreeing to violate the Law on Broadcasting, and among other things, it is a violation and abuse of the law and is the basis on which the media scene of our society is arranged. For LDP, it is a very important issue of democratisation of our media, of state ownership in the media, of state representation in the media, because I think the state is wider than one ruling coalition. When the Policy Management Board, the News Management Board, the RTS Management Board, the RTS Programme Council and a whole series of other media in which the state appears as the owner of certain capital, it will be seen that the country is actually narrower than the ruling coalition. What we expect of you as Parliament's president is that, in accordance with your powers, you allow the determination of the truth at all times and in every place, including the truth that would be binding on any MP, and anyone who supports Aleksandar Tijanic and anyone who criticises him. We think that no one has the right to ask LDP MPs to remain silent about the person who, by appearing at the position of the Director of the Public Service, actually symbolizes and proves the continuity of the policy that destroyed this country. That's what the obvious fact is, and we're facing that fact. We feel that we are obliged to point out such a thing and not run away from the responsibility that follows such a political action. We will be happy to participate in the process of building an independent media service for Serbia, but the prerequisite for such a thing is respect for the law and clearing the inherited relations that are compromising for the current ruling coalition, including for you presidents of the Assembly, because as president of the Assembly in a democratic society, you are certainly obliged to take care of the media freedoms that are marginalised, threatened and fully politicised through the function that is being usurped by Public Service Director Aleksandar Tijanic at the moment. He's just an old servant to us, unfortunately new bosses, who agree to manage RTS the way it did in the past, and the LDP never thought that blackmail could solve these problems. It is true that we have spoken with the DS, asking the DS to agree to the realisation of that policy that will bring the country closer to Europe, and our society democratisation. Aleksandar Tijanic is just a single system mistake, a product of a whole series of wrong relationships that at the moment do not make him a victim, but one of the culprits and the main culprits for the state of the country. It is a man who has allowed himself to put a sign of equality between the disappearance of this society and the rest in the life of the first democratic prime minister, which is an insult to every man in this country and we will insist on determining the full responsibility, but not on the responsibility that would come to his journalism, but on those criminal ones that Mr Batic spoke of, and the criminals we spoke of when we filed against him as a prominent member of the criminal association that created the political atmosphere that preceded the murder of Zoran Djindjic. On these issues, we will, hopefully, meet for a long time, but not as two opposing sides, but as parties interested in settling relations in our society. As far as your letter is concerned, it has been forwarded to our parliamentary group and we will respond adequately to it, but I now think that all the preconditions that would oblige parliament to form a polling committee with several objectives have been obtained. First, establishing respect for legality during the election of the director of the broadcasting service and secondly, which is very important, establishing responsibility for the situation in the Republic of Public Service, for the state of the Republic Broadcasting Agency and for the responsibility followed by parliament, since parliament is an institution which is the cornerstone of free and independent journalism with the role it has played on itself.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20371	Of course, parliament must primarily take care of the procedure, the public in the work, and this is an opportunity for all institutions and individuals in the framework of their powers to take the necessary steps and react. I think that's what Parliament really does. The qualification of a war criminal is the only topic I have ever mentioned a letter for, and everything you have spoken about is absolutely in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, your political views, your beliefs, and it is perfectly fine to enter certain procedures of this Parliament and of the state. We are now actually done with Article 235 and within this article, which is still current, more representatives of parliamentary groups cannot, when I open the session you will have the opportunity to get word on the Rules of Procedure. Allow me to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the sittings of Mr Meho Omerovic and Riza Halimi, and that I have called, in accordance with Article 88(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, in addition to the representatives of the promoters Dr. Saša Dragina, Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, attend Prof. Dr. Mirjana Milošević, Dr. Milan Petrović and Dragan Injac, State Secretary in the Ministry, then Mr. Milan Stegić, Mr. Milos Milovanovic, Momcilo Mitreski and Slobodan Teofanov, Assistant Ministers of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, then Dusan Pajkić, Director of the General Inspectorate, Dr. Zoran Mićović, Director of the Veterinary Administration, as well as Dr. Jan Bocanski, Director of Plant Protection, and Dr. Saša Orlović, Director of the Board of Forests at the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management. I welcome them all and thank you for participating in the work. The breach of the Rules of Procedure was advertised by Mr Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20372	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advocating a violation of Rule 27 of the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. You responded very spotfully to Alexander Tijanic's letter. It seems to me that much greater is your obligation to react when the same man, minors every day, but very often, in the most brazen way, insults individual MPs, slanders, defamation, discredits, insults. I didn't notice you ever reacted. As you have now reacted, you need to react even more in the protection of the integrity and dignity of the MPs by the same Alexander Tijanic, a man who, in his time of fighting in the courtroom with Miki Vujevic, the owner of Palm TV, was sentenced to prison for 15 days or 20 days, so since at that time the minister of justice was Mr Stojkovic, otherwise his defender or proxies, it was obsolete, so he was not found in Padinska Skela, he probably would not continue to slap, say, members of the LDP in court halls or members of the SDU on the streets, when we are talking about someone's dignity. Here he insulted the most in various ways Cedomir Jovanovic, Žarko Koraća, my smallness, etc. I would ask that you have at least identical arches, that I no longer deal with the character and the work of Alexander Tijanic, there is one who will deal with it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20373	The word is Mr Miroslav Markicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20374	President-in-Office, I am advocating members of 27th and 104th because I think these provisions of the Rules of Procedure have been violated, and this is about discrimination against citizens. We are all witnesses that as heads of parliament groups, deputies, MPs we receive various letters from citizens of Serbia, who are in some functions or not. None of them deserved to have his letter on your side mentioned. Isn't that discrimination against these citizens, hungry people, pensioners and people willing to commit suicide? Why did it take you to read this letter? Especially since recently, several months ago, the president of New Serbia was declared here a man speaking hate language. You recognized he didn't speak and you didn't give him a warning. The next day, the transfer of the session was suspended by the Director of Public Service, and then the state authorities said theirs. So that's the point, the state's authorities are in charge of assessing whether someone hurt someone's national and religious feelings, racial, and that's probably the state's attorney, the competent state authority. On that day, there was no transmission of Radio TV, or so on. a public European service. I don't want to comment on what Mr. Ivan Andric said, but I wasn't even in the O.R. anyway. Then I asked the question, that is, a few days ago, and I am asking the question now, on behalf of the citizens of Serbia who are paying the subscription to the Public Service -- that the National Assembly, therefore to its public, to the citizens of Serbia, be provided with a financial report on how to use their TV subscription? I think you should represent more from that site of that building, especially those who pay for a TV subscription without a TV signal. A few years ago, this famous, already public European service director, I mean government service, said -- what does it matter that they don't have a TV signal, because they pay school taxes and those who don't have kids. What kind of response is that to the citizens of Serbia? I've never heard anything more blatant in my life. They insult people who don't have children. It's been two minutes. I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20375	Your intention is clear to me, but you can't do it at the same session on the same basis, or by advertising the same content, the same member, you can't do it twice, actually Mr. Batic has already done it, only to warn you about it. There's no breach of the Rules of Procedure. Mr Tomislav Nikolic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20376	You injured the Rules of Procedure when you said you were behind every word of Mr. Jovanovic, although he spoke in hate language, or he sent messages to Mr. Tijanic. He said he was a member of a criminal association. Now you're all here in a dilemma. You appointed Mr. Tijanic yourself as Director of Public Service. Mr. Andric was chairman of the National Assembly Information Committee when it came to this. You have an easy way to replace Alexander Tijanic. When you set him up, you knew what you were doing, setting up an energetic man, brazen, largely rude, who would create good and strong television, but who would one day be taken away from you. I haven't been on national television in seven months. All my political rivals don't take off shows that mostly talk about me. Aleksandar Tijanic has done several good things. He has made several Serbian series of the most prominent in history, which I am proud of, although I have never had good contact with Tijanic, and he is not a war criminal and no one should say that here from MPs for anyone. A lot of reporters about the MPs have been miswritten. They said a lot about us. If we dare to answer, they all jumped into their protection and said we were choking freedom of speech. Now only no one will protect Alexander Tianic. From whom - of the MPs who said he was a war criminal? Well, here, I'm protecting him. So hate speech is not only when Tomislav Nikolic or Velimir Ilic speaks, or anyone in this room, hate speech is when you speak LDP. You seem to be allowed everything - you can insult anyone, anyone to blacken out. Whomever you declare wrong, he must be moving. Now here you are, ladies and gentlemen of the LDP, and you, Mr Batic, at the next session, don't give a quorum, so blackmail - either to replace Alexander Tianic or to have no National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20377	It's been two minutes. Thank you. Please, my comment at all was about hate speech, insult and qualifications. I asked all of us to take care of it. At the very least, the dignity of a man and the dignity of this house are something we must take care of. I never meant to be a LDP spokesman. So I'm surprised that you, as an intelligent man, are making a superficial conclusion. Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20378	Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have come forward with the intention of taking advantage of the right to replica after I was mentioned by Mr Nikolic. He's been confused since this morning. I wouldn't go into the causes of such a condition. Just before he asked the question, he announced an action -- we're opening a theater, and he was talking about a closed museum. I suppose that's the reason for his inability and inability to understand what I was talking about. First, I absolutely agree with Mr Nikolic that no one here in the Assembly should use hate speech, speak in such a way, and I am sure that all MPs who are in the hall understand very well what Ivan Andric was talking about. He mentioned Hague war journalism and thus brought it into connection with war crimes that resulted, of course not thinking that Aleksandar Tijanic is capable of doing what he proposes to others. As for Mr Tijanic's role, we wouldn't spend too much on him. We consider it a single system error, a mistake that has its specific weight. This weight follows a responsibility that we cannot talk about in parliament, because parliament is a political institution. Let the competent state authorities, those spoken of by Mr Batic, deal with it. If someone is insolent by a single legal termology, then it's not a Parliament problem, it's one who can't understand the fact that it's a crime, in which more than one participant appears, treated by our law as an act committed by a criminal association. A whole series of acts spoke of by the minister of justice, Mr Batic, in his criminal reports, that is, they are treated in accordance with a member of the Criminal Law that so unites, qualifications - criminal association. The criminal charges we filed, we filed with the courts of this country, and we didn't do it the way you, Mr Nikolic, did during your golden police era, when you and your other self, Vojislav Seselj, spread terror throughout this country. I believe you forgot something like that, the morning you woke up and realized that 20 years of your political life was actually a big mistake. As far as the Information Committee is concerned, it is true that Mr. Andric was the chairman of the Information Committee, but this Information Committee had no closeness or affection for people such as Aleksandar Tijanic or those represented by Aleksandar Tijanic. He became the director of RTS under the Law on Public Enterprises, against the law and against the Law on Broadcasting, in order to then, in the day in which the Management Board was elected, this same board of directors was appointed by the RTS. It was the price of a political settlement you agreed to, which gave you a seat on the public service program board you were talking about. I agree with you that there is a lot of success here, but I don't see that it has anything to do with what would be the basis for your respect for Alexander Tijanic, because he didn't write "the wounded eagle" or he directed it. He's just a man who's been in that place under the circumstances, and he's done very little doing it, which is why the show did it. Everything that touches Alexander Tijanic -- very quickly turns into chaos. (President Gordana Komic: It has been three minutes, MP. I suggest that we stop here with this story, let parliament do its job and other institutions do it. Once again, I give full consent to what you say about the language in parliament, and I have no understanding of such a thing. If this is interpreted in the wrong way, I apologize to Parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20379	Ambassador, your time has been used. The People's MPs Vladan Batic and Tomislav Nikolic have the right to reply, based on direct reference. Here you go. National MP Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20380	Here, I can accept this suggestion from Mr Tomislav Nikolic -- if the quorum ever depends on me, you gave me a good idea, I will not accept providing quorum while at the head of the Public Service Alexander Tianic. I'm also very pleased with your metamorphosis, since after 15 or 20 years of hate speech, by which you were recognizable, you finally started speaking differently. I hope you'll become an honorary member of individual NGOs, led by the ladies you've so disrespected and criticized in the past. In any case, it is a visible progress for Parliament to work and I look forward to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20381	Just so there's no misunderstanding. National MP Vladan Batic was given the right to replication based on the mention of MP Tomislav Nikolic, not MP Cedomir Jovanovic, who also used the right to replication based on the mention of MP Tomislav Nikolic, who has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20382	I know that the Serbian Progressive Party's policy poses a danger to almost everyone here in the O.R., but it's good for Serbia. You scratch when you're itchy, and metamorphosis and behavioral changes, and the ideas that we represent -- that's why I made a new party so you can comb. When you start accusing me too much, then every single one of us is in that mosaic. Until we knew it was a hate speech, we talked about each other, and so did you, Mr. Batic, some minority members of the National Assembly. It's all in the stenographic notes. Mr. Jovanovic now accuses me of everything and everything, and mentions some kind of criminal association. I didn't understand too much, or I apologized for using the word "national theater," but you didn't listen at the time. Yeah, I was talking about the museum. You were talking too fast and you were whispering, Mr. Jovanovic, as if they hadn't made you a suitable substitute for that fork that fell out in Schiller's pool, saving you when you were taking a bath. So when you're talking about a criminal association, I'm asking you -- how did you bring prisoners out of Central Prison all night and bring them back in the morning; how much are you involved in all the crimes from October 5th to today? And you'll call it hate speech, and behind each of us there's something he can be called for. You can call me, they can't dare you, because it depends on you whether they have a session or not, because you fly into the hall when there aren't enough messengers. And you, Mr. Batic, have already made a quorum, when they had no quorum - so you'll have a chance for sure. Just don't blackmail on the name of Alexander Tijanic. Blackmail some other way, don't put Tijanic on it to break it all. You're gonna bring in some listener who won't know how to make a show, because Tianic knows how to do that job. He didn't write "The Hurt Eagle", but someone wrote "My Cousin From the Village", so Tijanic could estimate that it was a fantastic show, someone wrote "The Village Is Worse, The Baba is combing", so Tijanic could assess what should be financed, because it's all in his hands. We didn't decide here. If we were out of our minds, we would never agree which series should be recorded. Our brains are in 250 directions. So I'm not giving up. You can insult, you can remind yourself of what you want. Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic agrees when you say he belonged to the criminal association, and that's her political party, it's her political option now needed by the authorities. So, you're attacking Tijanic, not touching the socialists and the JULs that he represented at the time. Mr. Andric was opposed to Tianic - that's not true. Mr. Andric was not opposed to Tijanic until today, and when he had in his hands, not as director of the Public Service, but as director of RTS, he never called him. Tijanic was protected. (President: three minutes MP, time available for replica used. Thank you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20383	Right to replication, based on direct reference, MP Cedomir Jovanovic and MP Vladan Batic. The word is Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20384	Mrs. Komic, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would not call on the right to a replica, I don't think Mr. Nikolic understands me and I would suggest that he have a good coffee, which they cook here in the Assembly, will wake him up, and then this debate will be able to be conducted in one reasonable way, since it makes no sense to constantly return our controversy to a few simple facts. The Assembly held a debate on changes to the Law on Broadcasting, this change completely devises the institution of the Republic Broadcasting Agency, it returns us to the beginning and period in which most of the actors of our political scene, and more importantly, the public, was not satisfied with the fact that the work of national television was politicised. These are some constants that marked the debate itself, in which he is as one of the people who certainly deserves criticism also mentioned RTS director Aleksandar Tijanic. What we think of Tijanic so many times we said, I don't think it should be repeated here in the Parliament itself, as well as what we said about you, Mr Nikolic, and about your former party and about your present. It's a good thing people change, otherwise we'd still be walking four-legged. The problem is that you are not aware of the responsibility that such a change should follow, so now you expect us to be hungover, like you are this morning. But it's very difficult and we won't agree to that, nor are we obliged to do that. Once again, I suggest that, in line with your new orientation, you look for answers to the questions you are asking here and that they would never hear from those institutions that commit you to respect, which are the competent courts in this country, who had much more understanding of what I did than what people with whom you were more than politically close in the period during which they prepared our murders. I wouldn't take you back to what you gave up yourself and what people in this country understand very well, but I'm telling you it's not enough once to say "Sorry, Zoran," or to apologize to his family for what preceded his murder, even though I don't think you're responsible for such a thing crucially, but you are also responsible for the climate in which we lived and for the chaos we live today. As far as the quorum is concerned, we will always respect the public interest and in any situation in which, because of the inability of the ruling coalition or for objective reasons, the Assembly cannot function, and it must decide because issues are important to society, this quorum will be made possible. When it comes to passports, we have made it possible, the anti-discrimination law also, in any situation where the public interest is in the focus of our policy, we will act that way, and even when we talk about current laws in the field of agriculture, which bring us closer to Europe, which you agreed to the moment you lost your fight against it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20385	The word has a People's MP Vladan Batic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20386	I don't think Mr. Nikolic understood me. Of course, I've been sarcastically accepting your suggestion, but, as Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic said, you haven't been on the element since this morning, so you didn't understand my message between the lines. One time I gave the quorum, on the agenda was the law on coat of arms, flag and anthem, the law I proposed in 2001. For the same symbols, for the same state signs, the only one in the then government raised his hand "for". The four ministers at the time were against it, and the others were godlessly abstentioned. It was my moral obligation to be in that assembly session. Then he followed a set of environmental laws. If you notice, as someone who is born and who lives in Obrenovac, I ask a question in the field of environmentalism at every session of parliament, and I also had a need to be there. Besides, it's completely pointless, if it's up to me to ruin one working day of Parliament, I'll always be there. It has nothing to do with my political views. I don't know since you became a spokesman for Alexander Tijanic, because he wasn't even a subject, personally. Who cares about Alexander Tianic? He's a paradigm of some phenomena that shouldn't happen in this society, if you understand what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20387	Right on line, MP Tomislav Nikolic. Please close this circle of replicas, if we've exchanged any clarifications about misunderstandings. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20388	I understand everything, even though you say I'm hungover. I'm not talking to you, Mr. Batic, I don't find it interesting. Tijanic is the Dossovsky director of RTS. Don't ever forget that. Mr. Jovanovic, there's only one thing I'd like to tell you. I believe in God, for me people have never become from monkeys and never walked four-legged, so I ask you to always keep that in mind when you think about whether people should change. So, the man didn't become a monkey, although I might be able to investigate, according to the physiology of some of the MPs, whether it's quite true or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20389	People's MP, I warn you not to question unquestionable scientific theories, and two, that you do not speak of your aesthetic impressions in the context of the right to replication. National MP Cedomir Jovanovic, right on line.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20390	Mrs. Komic, I will try to end this unwanted controversy of ours only once. All right, we're different and we won't agree on how a man came into existence, but I hope that during your transformation period you will come to conclusions that are not disputed for us today. I hope you don't believe that the country is a record and that it's normal to treat people with shovels, since you often express attitudes that are contradictory. I don't see any other way to help you, except to say once again that we want the transformation of our society, the full democratisation and liberalisation of the media, the definition of the role of the state in the media sphere, the effective law on broadcasting and, of course, the end of that continuity that currently symbolizes the director of RTS, however comfortable it is for you in the series written by your party colleagues.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20391	The right to reply, MP Vladan Batic, and MP Tomislav Nikolic. Please exchange very carefully everything you consider to be a misunderstanding, because this closes the circle of replicas.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20392	Mr. Nikolic, I didn't say you were hungover, but based on this previous finding, it turns out you're senile, and I don't believe that either. So Aleksandar Tijanic wasn't the RTS's dossal director, far from it. So he wasn't placed in the position of the director of RTS by the DOS. Here, I'll refresh your memory. So that's not true. At the time of the government of Vojislav Kostunica, he became the director of the Public Service. He was formerly an adviser to Vojislav Kostunica, pure of truth doing nothing else.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20393	National MP Tomislav Nikolic, right on line.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20394	For me, Vojislav Kostunica DOS. So at the time of Vojislav Kostunica, the DOS, Aleksandar Tijanic, became the director of the Public Service. You can tell the Serbian citizen Public Service as much as you want, for him it's RTS day and day. To Mr. Jovanovic, to answer. I am proud of the members of the SNS who wrote the script for the series "My Cousin from the Village", of Slobodan-Lalet Pavlovic, who is a Serbian genius, and proud of a very close friendship and similarity in thinking with Radosa Bajic, who wrote the series "The Village is worse and the grandmother is combing". Now, if that's your role model for SNS, we appreciate people like that. I'd love to know what a role model for your political group is, what a show we'd watch if you or your members wrote the script.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20395	We're continuing to work towards the agenda. We cross the 6th point of the agenda: – PROPOST OF THE ZDRAVL ZDRAVL (individuals) You have received amendments submitted on the draft of the law by the MPs: Siniša Stamenković, Vjerica Radeta, Zoran Popović, Vladjan Jeremic, Vladijan Žužarić, Vladan Žužarić, Radoslav Milovanovic, Dušanka Plečević, Milovanovic, Marina Ragus, Nataša Jovanović, Vladjan Jeremić, Vitomir Plužarić, Radan Živić, Radiša Ilić, Momović, Branimir Djokić, Srboljuvić Živanovic, Gordana Pop-Lazić, Žaljan Žaljan Žaljanović, Žaljan Žaljan Žaljanović, Žažan Žažan Žažan Žažažakić, Žažakić, Žamić, Žamić, Žamić, Žamić, Žamić, Žamić, Žamić, Žam Žamić, Žmić, Žmić, Zamić, Zamić, Zamić, Žamić, Zamić, Zamić, Zamić, Zamić, Zamić, Zamić, Žmić, Zamić, Žmić, Zamić, Žmić, Žam Kramić, Žmić, Zamić, Žmić, Žmić. You have received reports from the Committee on Agriculture and the Legislative Committee, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Acimovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Elena Christmas-Talian submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Veselinović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Lidija Vukicevic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Parliamentarian Jadranko Vukovic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Vukovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Lidija Dimitrijevic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Momcilo Duvnjak. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branimir Djokic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Srboljub Zivanovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Srboljub Zivanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20396	Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 3rd point 8 where after the word "implementation" the word "prescribed" is added, and it says - implementation of the prescribed phytosanitary measures. It involves the protection of plants, plant products and the prevention of the spread of harmful organisms and their prevention by applying phytosanitary measures, detection and determination of harmful organisms. The protection of plant health is a multidisciplinary and complex area. The basis of modern agricultural production and the provision of sufficient quantities of quality, healthy and proper food cannot be imagined without the protection of plant health. Activities within this area are affecting different aspects of both economic and everyday life. The phytosanitary rate is the link of the food chain. The health status of plants in the international trade of goods is as important as animal health. I believe that the Ministry should take account of plant protection because these preparations used in the protection of the health status of plants are mostly imported, and their price is high, and agricultural producers are unable to make good use of these preparations. I believe that the Ministry should introduce subsidies, and normal lending to buy these products for protection against harmful organisms.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20397	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Dragan Zivkov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Žutić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Radisa Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20398	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have tabled an amendment to Article 3. The proposal for a plant health law, which reads in Article 3 paragraph 1 point 13, the word "treatment" is deleted. The objective of the amendment is to eliminate the emphasis of treatment as the only procedure in order to maintain plant health. In agriculture, there are many methods and procedures that keep plant health in a degree that poses no danger to humans and animals when used as food. What is missing in Serbia, and this fact is well known and reality, that a good part of the farmer still does not use proper chemical resources in agriculture, as well as the situation of suppressing harmful organisms. The government of the Republic of Serbia has allocated so much funds to accelerate agriculture in Serbia, but as much as it has done in the education of farmers themselves, how to apply a huge range of chemical resources, herbicides, pesticides, insecticides, artificial food, etc. There is then a known problem with exports of such products to the world, especially to the EU, where the limits of certain chemical substances in the product are strictly controlled. We remember the example of a few years ago when a good part of the raspberries couldn't be exported because of the higher concentration of pesticides found in the raspberries themselves. Plant protection is mainly related to procedures aimed at eliminating harmful organisms, but the implementation of these procedures is unimaginable without the use of chemical agents through disinfection, disinfection, deratization and decontamination. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20399	Anyone else want a word? Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Natasa Jovanovic submitted a letter to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment, Radica Jocic submitted a letter. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Parliamentarian Ljubomir Kragovic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Krstin. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has been given by the People's Messenger Milorad Krstin.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20400	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, honourable citizens of Serbia, and I particularly welcome individual agricultural producers, from a set of laws, literally joined into one, and this is 15, and we have before us a law on plant health. What I'm reading in the very explanation you've given, it's clear that this is the law, as the government says, that takes us to Europe. One of the elements of the reform plan in the field of plant health protection, in the direction of harmonisation with the EU and the World Trade Organisation, is the adoption of a new legislative regulation through which all new solutions that should enable the implementation of this new reform will be institutionalised. That part, as far as this law is concerned, is clear to us, but I don't know what this pair, peasant or agricultural producer is going to do when it comes to application, and it's almost not going to come, which will help him. If we take a Article 73 and look at it, someone now interprets it, says – If when performing a sanitary examination of consignments of plants, plant products and prescribed objects suspect the presence of harmful organisms from the list 1a part one, 1a part two, list 1b, list 2a part one, etc. It is something that is professional, which will do what the EU has prescribed. Let's see what it's like to get a peasant out of this, what's a farmer gonna get out of this? If we see that you're a word - the national reference phytosanitary laboratory is deleted and you're putting it as a director for the national reference laboratories now. In front of this national reference room you put a directorate, after the national reference – the phytosanitary is deleted, so it does not exist, and you put a directorate for the national reference laboratories. It is evident that someone should control everything that enters and exits, but it is evident that this law is a law that, as the government says, will take us to the EU as soon as possible, but I do not know how a farmer, a pair or an individual agricultural producer will submit it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20401	Anyone else want a word? Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Ljubenovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by Parliament Vesna Marić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Siniša Stamenkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Alexander Martinovic submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Sladjan Mijaljevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marko Milenkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vlad Milojkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Goran Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Ognjen Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Mladenovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Pai Momchilov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milan M. Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by Parliament of People Gordana Paunović-Milosavljevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Radoslav Milovanovic submitted to Article 5 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Agriculture have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that the amendment has become part of the draft law. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljubisa Petkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by Dušanka Plecevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Radoslav Milovanovic submitted to Article 6 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Agriculture have adopted the amendment, the Legislative Committee believes the amendment is legal, so I find that the amendment has become part of the draft law. Member of the 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Siniša Stamenkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by Parliament Gordana Pop-Lazic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 10th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Popovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dobrislav Prelic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 11 of the amendment, Commissioner Marina Ragush submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment, Siniša Stamenković submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment, a letter from the Prophet of Radeta was submitted. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. The word is "Veriza Radeta".
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20402	Article 12 is one of the members who are in the section entitled — Entities in the field of plant health protection, which are entered in the register of manufacturers, processors, processors, importers, warehouses and transporters of plants, plant products and prescribed facilities. Item 3 speaks of who can be entered in this register and says – with the requirement of Article 2 of this Article, it is also proof that the responsible person for plant health has a working experience of one year on plant health jobs. We have suggested that it be written that it is an experience of at least a year, which the Government confirmed by its reply, which is why it does not accept the amendment, because the Government says that the amendment is not accepted for reasons that the responsible person for plant health can also be a person with experience for more than a year. For this very reason we wrote that it should stand – for at least a year, and you in law fixed that it was a year's experience. This is indeed a legal and nomotechnical order of this member, as well as our intervention, which we normally stress through the amendments, that where the minister determines by law that he prescribes something, some sublegal acts, that is, in the opinion of the 5th of this article, we always suggest that it be a ministry. Now I'm gonna say why we do it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20403	The word has a minister of agriculture, forestry and water industry, Sasha Dragin.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20404	After seeing your amendment, I would like to say that the Ministry accepts that in front of the words – years, it is put – for at least a year, or that the word – the minister is replaced by the word – ministry.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20405	I find that the proposer has accepted the amendment. Since the Committee on Agriculture is not, then either the Committee will have to consider this amendment, so it will become an integral part, or in another case the Assembly will declare in the voting day. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Milovan Radovanovic submitted to Article 13 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Suleiman Spaho. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Articles 16 and 16 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radoslav Milovanovic. The government and the Committee on Agriculture have adopted this amendment, the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible, so I also find that this amendment has become part of the bill. Member of the 16th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. The word is made by MP Dragan Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20406	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in this morning's discussion someone said that this is a set of laws that brings us closer to the EU and the SRS cannot agree because of the fact that laws are written in the spirit of European standards, but that standards in the area of agriculture in Serbia are such that these laws will not be objectively applicable. Things might be different if the government, i.e. executive authority, specifically your Ministry, Mr. Minister, acted a little differently. In front of me, I have one solution to your ministry which is rejected as an unfounded requirement for the use of incentives to raise a multi-annual product for now for 2008 and in the light of the same solution, it is said that the agricultural producer did not report the exact structure of plant production, i.e. the plots on which the new fishery is erected – a fence. For your information, I also have in front of me, Mr. Minister, invoices, severances, declaration – a certificate of that same agricultural producer and, as a crown of all things, the record of the inspection carried out by the Department of Plant Protection of the Ministry of Agriculture and in which it was found that the agricultural producer submitted everything in accordance with the law, i.e. with the Government regulation. You can have it when I'm done. I wonder if this is practice, is this precedent, and do you think that if the Government of the Republic of Serbia, in particular your Ministry, continues to act this way with regard to agricultural producers or those who are interested, in a decent period of time, you will build standards in the area of agriculture, so that the laws that are in the spirit of Europeans are applicable in Serbia?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20407	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Radoslav Milovanovic submitted to Article 17 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Agriculture have adopted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Member of the 17th amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 17, the amendment was submitted by Marina Toman. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Radoslav Milovanovic submitted to the 18th amendment. The government and the Committee on Agriculture have adopted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Member of the 18th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Todorovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 19 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Škrbić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Radoslav Milovanovic submitted to Article 20 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Agriculture have adopted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Member of the 20th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 22nd amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Acimovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 22 of the amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 22nd Amendment was submitted by Elena Christmas-Talian. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 23 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 24 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milan Veselinović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Lidija Vukicevic submitted a letter to Article 25 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 26 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Jadranko Vukovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 27 of the amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Vukovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 27th Amendment was submitted by Siniša Stamenković. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Lidija Dimitrijevic submitted to Article 28 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 30 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Jovan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 31st Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Momcilo Duvnjak. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 31st Amendment was submitted by MP Branimir Djokic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 31st Amendment was submitted by Srboljub Zivanovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Srboljub Zivanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20408	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I thought the Ministry would accept this amendment of mine, because, in addition to certain concrete measures, it actually foresees revision. I believe that when receiving fruits and vegetables or any other product it is necessary for a particular product to possess a particular accompanying documentation, which actually follows in what way it has occurred in the vegetation process to apply certain protective preparations. I therefore believe that it is necessary, in addition to this given and out of place in this position number 3, where certain concrete measures are established, to add words – a certain revision, which will improve this process, which will, in an adequate manner, allow for the monitoring of plant protection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20409	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Member of the 32nd Amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Zivkov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 34 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Žutić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 35 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Radisa Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20410	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have tabled an amendment to Article 35, which reads in Article 35(2), the minister's word is replaced by the word ministry. If we look at Article 35, we'll see that it's actually a list of 10 lists to be signed by the minister. The government's reasoning for the refusal of amendments is as follows - the amendment is not accepted for the reason that the State Administration Act empowers the minister to adopt certain sublaws rather than the ministry. The minister can only sign and prescribe these lists of plants, but these lists were actually made up by the Ministry, i.e. experts who are employed in the ministry. The minister certainly couldn't make these lists alone that were very large. It is ten lists and each list specifically lists the types of plants, plant products and prescribed facilities. Again, this case is about, regardless of the State Administration Act, the mere formality of signing these lists by the minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20411	The word is made by Minister Sasha Dragin.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20412	I would like to say that, given that we have looked at what this amendment refers to, we can say, regarding the changes in Article 35, that we accept that the Minister's word is replaced by the word ministry.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20413	I find that, on behalf of the promoter, Minister Sasa Dragin accepted the amendment to Article 35, which was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic, who did not accept the Committee on Agriculture, so it will either be accepted at the Committee's session and will become an integral part of the bill's proposal or be declared by the Assembly in the voting day. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 36 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Natasa Jovanovic submitted a letter to Article 37 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 38 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 39 of the amendment was submitted by Radica Jocic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Parliamentarian Ljubomir Kragovic submitted to the 40th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 41st Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 42 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Krstin. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has been given by the People's Messenger Milorad Krstin.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20414	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Mr. Minister, if you have noticed, and we have also discussed this on the Committee on Agriculture, starting with Article 31, if we look at the amendments, from the regular number of 79 to 126, the SRS parliamentary group has instead put it in place – the minister put it in place – the ministry, because we thought, based on what Verica Radeta said under the Constitution, that you cannot control everything that is happening in agriculture alone, but should be more important to transfer to your assistants, advisors and closest associates. Then you could control more what is done on the ground in Serbia, what is it that the Ministry does and is in the interest of individual agricultural producers, that it is enough that all these laws that you have now proposed are legally and practically respected, and then we can only consider them to be laws that should and are passed in time. I'm convinced these laws should have been passed much earlier. As an authorised representative, especially when it comes to the feeding of plants and land-minders, I'm going to encourage a little bit of the subject of who's supposed to be doing what he's supposed to do and how much the minister, based on his authority, was doing the opposite of what a peasant needs to do to survive that year for everything he's invested, not just to let him go to the laws and then turn to work up, and there's a whole different story on the ground.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20415	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Tomislav Ljubenović submitted to Article 43 of the amendment. It's about the same text, just different attitudes. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 44 of the amendment, MEP Vesna Marić submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 45th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 46 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Sladjan Mijaljevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Alexander Martinovic submitted to Article 47 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 48th amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20416	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 48, which requires that the positions of three, four, five, and six of this article be deleted. The reason is very simple, but in Article 47, same point 3. - The Minister can allow the import of plants, plant products, etc. from the list 3a, 3b, here in Article 48, lists 4a, 4b, etc. The amendment is not accepted for reasons of compliance with the Directive. First, the law cannot be harmonised with the directive, I guess the directives are in line with the law. There is, however, some kind of subsuppression of these rules that you give and the law cannot be younger than some directive. Secondly, what is most important, which is why I submitted the amendment, is that the ministry can prescribe, the ministry is a state body, the minister is only the head of the state body, therefore the minister cannot be equated, the minister is not an institution, the ministry is. On the other hand, in view of the products treated with Article 48, imports and the transport of plants, plant products and prescribed objects listed in List 4a, 4b, which do not meet specific phytosanitary conditions shall be prohibited. So, we're going to be in a situation where the minister, by his decision, will allow the import of plants that do not meet specific phytosanitary conditions. That means two things. First, the possibility of corruption and, of course, we do not question Mr Dragin's honesty as minister, but tomorrow he will sit at Mr Dragin's place as a minister, and with some DOS ministers some other minister, and with some DOS ministers, including those after DOS, we have a very bad experience. To remind you of Minister Dulic-Markovic's operations, imports of genetically modified products from the company Monsanto, imports of seeds of genetically modified products, so we infected half of Serbia with a genetically modified strain, etc. Therefore, it must not be allowed for the minister to be in a position to approve with his solution something which, with the first attitude of this Article 48, is prohibited, because he will come into the situation that he will not issue a solution, but when an import lobby comes, when agreed, there is the possibility of an agreement, and therefore I believe that this amendment and these four articles of Article 48 should be deleted. Then Article 48 will be decidently clear – imports of plant products that do not meet specific phytosanitary conditions are prohibited. This also protects the citizens of Serbia who use these products, and protects the state and protects the minister from it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20417	The word is made by Minister Sasha Dragin.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20418	She's just doing your information. Due to international regulations, it is extremely important for some signatures to be placed by a personal minister, and some may also be authorised by a person in the ministry. There's a big difference from case to case. For that reason, somewhere the minister must make a signature, and somewhere it is allowed to do so by someone who is authorized by the ministry.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20419	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 53rd amendment was submitted by MP Marko Milenkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 55 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vlad Milojkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Siniša Stamenković submitted to Article 57 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 57th amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 58 of the amendment was submitted by MP Goran Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 59th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Ognjen Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 61 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Mladenovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 63 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milan M. Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 64 of the amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 65th Amendment was submitted by MP Pai Momchilov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Siniša Stamenković submitted to Article 66 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 66th Amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Gordana Paunović-Milosavljevic submitted to Article 71 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 71st Amendment was submitted by MP Ljubisa Petkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 73 of the amendment was submitted by Vitomir Plužarevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 74th Amendment was submitted by Gordana Pop-Lazic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 75th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Popovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 76 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dobrislav Prelic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Milovanovic submitted to Article 79 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 80th Amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Marina Ragush, a Member of the 82nd Amendment, submitted to him. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 85 of the amendment, a letter from the Verse of Radet was submitted. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from the Verse of Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20420	Article 85 talks about the information system and says the ministry is establishing and maintaining information systems in the field of plant health. The 2nd position, which has been submitted to the amendment, speaks of a reference laboratory, and we think it should be replaced by the words "state authorities". The explanation of this amendment will be illustrated by one letter that we received from a gentleman at the college assembly club this morning, to draw attention to what we received in this letter, how irresponsiblely the state authorities are, and only when they are some reference laboratories, etc., do we ask ourselves, and the question is who are they even responding to? I would ask you, Mr. Minister, that you and your associates will be recognized by someone who is concerned, to listen to what Mr. Stanolo Markovic sent us by fax this morning from the village of Dubok to Jagodina. He says he's a farmer. With the whole family, he's living off it. This is his basic activity and has been defined for vegetable production, because he owns eight plastics, which he paid 120 thousand dinars, and for this, according to existing legislation, he has the right to grant 40 thousand dinars and says that he did not get this until today, although the Republic Inspector was on site, made a record and found in that report that he met these conditions. Mr. Stanojlo Markovic of Duboka says that as a farmer he visits many presentations, that he was at a presentation about registered households and that he led the presentation, says like this, Deputy Minister Dragina, I don't remember his name, but he sits in the Assembly next to Minister Dragin himself, and says that he has been asking his question about the wells and the subsidies that he said to leave him a phone number, data, etc. And he hasn't received any answers until today, but he says that he asked the gentleman, as well as the other participants, about the seed wheat. Mr. Deputy Minister, if it is the deputy minister, he says he answered - write corn, code 108, showed that he didn't even listen to what the man said, and especially he didn't intend to do anything serious. I can see you're all spinning your head, but here's the man who wrote his name loud and clear and asked us to read it, so I'd like to ask Mr. Dragin to have your associates check this out, because if a man has the right to receive a 40 thousand dinar subsidy to get it, and here's this fax for your data.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20421	Anyone else want a word? On Article 85 of the amendment is MP Suleyman Spaho. The government and the Committee on Agriculture did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? Member of the 87th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? The title above Articles 91 and 91 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radoslav Milovanovic. The government and the Committee on Agriculture have adopted this amendment, the Legislative Committee believes that the amendment is legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Radoslav Milovanovic submitted to the 93th amendment. The government and the Committee on Agriculture have adopted this amendment, the Legislative Committee believes the amendment is legal, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the Bill's proposal to Article 98 has been submitted by Radoslav Milovanovic. The government and the Committee on Agriculture have adopted this amendment, the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legal, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the Bill's proposal to Article 98 has been submitted by MP Aleksandar Pejcic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Alexander Pejcic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20422	Dear People's MPs, Your Honor, I mentioned this amendment in the principle debate. It's about the penal policy of the legislator. You were in one form, when you visited our Parliament Club, explaining why they were in this standard of punishment. I'm glad you agree that punishments should be much greater, however, the Code of Criminal Procedure does not allow you to do so. We have submitted amendments to other members, as well as natural persons, and entrepreneurs and legal entities. In the future, I won't answer because I have information from you, which is why you didn't accept these amendments. We have some satisfaction because you agree with what we've seen, and our goal was ultimately to protect the last instance in that chain, and that must be the buyer.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20423	The word is made by Minister Sasha Dragin.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20424	I'd like to thank you for understanding. It's very simple, that's about my opinion. In some cases, or criminal acts, punishments are very weak, according to my personal conviction. That's the kind of suggestion we had most to do with animal rights laws. We are very sorry, but for this very reason, sometimes the state authorities have a problem with punishing the offender, or very often the material gain of the offense is even more paid than what is prescribed by the penalty. For this reason, it is my opinion that the penalties for a lot of criminal offences must be increased in order to have their post.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20425	Anyone else want a word? The 99th Amendment was filed by Ambassador Alexander Pejcic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 100 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Alexander Pejcic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Radoslav Milovanovic submitted to Article 108 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Agriculture have adopted this amendment, the Legislative Committee believes the amendment is legal, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the Bill's proposal on Article 109 of the amendment was submitted by Radoslav Milovanovic. The government and the Committee on Agriculture have adopted this amendment, the Legislative Committee believes that the amendment is legal, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal since we have completed the examination of the bill in particular, does Minister Sasa Dragin, Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management want the final word? No, I don't. ) In that case, I conclude the examination of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 7th point of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on the Funds for ISHRANEAL AND IMPLEMENTATION OF THE LANDS (single). You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs: Dragan Acimović, Elena Bozic-Taljan, Boris Ljević, Milan Veselinović, Milorad Buha, Lidija Vukicevic, Jadranko Vukovic, Slobodan Vukovic, Miroslav Marinković, joint MPs Milan Lapčević and Aleksandar Pejčić, Jovan Damjanović, Lidija Dimitrijevic, Momcilo Duvnjak, Branimir Đokić, Sinisa Stamenković, Srboljub Zivanovic, Dragan Zvić, Radisa Žutić, Vladan Jeremic, Natasa Jovanovic, Petar Jojić and Srbol Zivanovic and the amendment Committee on Agriculture. You have received reports from the Committee on Agriculture and the Legislative Committee, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 6th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Acimovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 6th Amendment was submitted by Elena Christmas-Talian. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Veselinović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Lidija Vukicevic submitted a letter to Article 9 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 10th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Jadranko Vukovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Vukovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title and title above Articles 12 and 12 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miroslav Marinkovic. This amendment was adopted by both the Government and the Committee on Agriculture. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The amendment to Article 8, which was tabled by the People's MP Milorad Buh, has been missed. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has been given by the People's Messenger Milorad Krstin.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20426	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, with a very important law, it's about the means to feed plants and land-minders, however, only 29 amendments have been submitted, six of which were accepted, and those positions. The opposition, unfortunately, did not accept the amendments, because you felt that they would probably not improve this law. In addition to these two minutes, I will also use time as an authorised representative and when we talk about this law, which is very important, here is a quote from Agriculture Minister Saša Dragin in his analysis of agriculture, a brochure he printed – Serbia's Agriculture Analysis 2008 – said. He said, this time I have to make a point, the truth. "The problem with the use of artificial fertilizer in Serbia is both the control and quality of the fertilizer. There's no such thing as real control right now, and the inspection is corrupt. This brings up that even when our farmer uses fertilizer, its effects are quite small. '"I didn't use this as an abuse, but I used it as an argument that was true. Then I'll tell you, and your opinion as regards this law, it says: "That's because of the problem with the inadequate quality of mixed mineral fertilisers in transport during 2003, 2004 and 2005, the amendment of the rules on methods of testing of fertilisers, which concerned the conditions of production of quality for examining these fertilisers, was made. "The Republic of Serbia has registered 24 mineral fertiliser producers, mostly mixed fertilizers, of which due to the reconstruction of this business branch is actively working on about seven producers, which are "Azotara" Pančevo, "Azohem" Subotica, IHP "Prahovo", "Fertil" Bačka Palanka, "Gytomedia" Tower, "Ecomineral" Smederevo, "Delta agrar" Belgrade, normally, it cannot fail there. These seven manufacturers, you have to pay attention to them, in their speech, when it was in principle search, in a set of these 15 laws, Mr. Minister, I told them that x times, agricultural producers were sending us samples of artificial fertilizer, where we found parts or pieces of scraps, using construction houses, using gravel with tiny gravel, pebbles. When a paor takes it and throws it on its working surface, they always look at it and monitor meteorological conditions, so that it doesn't stand fertilizer for more days without rain, but look at it somehow in front of the rain. What happens when a farmer goes to the field after three or four days or five days? It happened to him that he was finding what I was just quoting. It was blushing, whitening of everything, just not of what was made of artificial fertilizer. This law absolutely requires rigorous control to be carried out as far as artificial fertilizer production is concerned. Paor's in a bad situation anyway. When he reaches the field, the millet, the gravel, the sand, doesn't know what of it can improve the growth of the plant, and also bring a bigger contribution to that agricultural producer, who lives out of it, as you say, a professional producer. About this data, I'd like to make some more facts. By the number of approvals issued for imports of finished fertilisers and raw materials for their production, on an annual basis, let's say, on average, in the last three years, you've been given about 300 approvals. In 2007, in your explanation that you have given, 220 permanent authorisations were issued for the placing of fertilisers on the market and about 70 changes of permanent marketing permits. I would ask you, Mr. Minister, to pay attention, along with your associates, to whom do you issue import permits for artificial fertilisers, and what countries do they import artificial fertilizer from us? I must confess and say that there is no better order 46% than Russia, the second in place is from Romania, but we are much more importing fertilizers from Croatia. Here, you listed seven manufacturers, these seven producers are able to produce enough mixed fertilizer. As a first prerequisite or condition, when you want to sow one crop before seed, you throw mixed fertilizer, whether it's three times fifteen, eight with sixteen, twenty-four and one hundred other combinations, it's based on a soil sample. Unfortunately, we've had a lot of soil samples, so we're always going with the same one, we're going with three 15s, we're going with "Anna" and we're going with the 46% device. It's something that's most basic. You must pass this law, which you will adopt on the 29th of this month, this law must be strictly applied. Permissions strictly verified by importers, and funds and fertilizers, and that there is this criterion that you set out here in this law. Otherwise, don't let it happen, please, really, that even in these seven, which make up this continent for the production of artificial fertilizer, and in Serbia's territory, there's crep, gravel, rock in a bag of artificial fertilizer. Don't ban these people, punish them normally with huge fines here, but brother dear and with prison. It doesn't make sense. The peasant really fell to the low branches. He's not like a peasant, he's not taking care of him, he's the opposite of how it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20427	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20428	I sincerely thank Mr. Kristin for his support. What was definitely a problem, we solved it by setting up the Inspector General and internal control of the inspector. I can tell you that since we're the Ministry, one inspector has been fired for abuse and two are currently under investigation. As for the control of fertilisers in 2008, 1,746 controls were carried out, and in 2009, it means, since the beginning of this year, 366 controls. Out of that, three criminal, 33 criminal and 36 commercial violations were filed during 2008. In 2009, one for business crime and 20 offenders. I can tell you that we are really fighting from the bottom of our heart for the quality of the fertilizer that is adequate, because as an agronomist, I understand that this is one of the biggest problems in our country. I know a lot of people made a fortune by putting a millet of marbles in the fertilizer.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20429	The amendment was submitted by MP Miroslav Marinkovic. Since the amendment was adopted by the Government and the Committee on Agriculture, and the Legislative Committee considers it legal, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Milan Lapcevic and Aleksandar Pejcic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I apologize, Minister, you want a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20430	On the occasion of the debate of the People's MP, Ms. Radate, and regarding Mr. Markovic Stanoil from Deep at Jagodina, and for his subsidies, I can tell you that the payment order in the Treasury system, that payment is approved, that the money may already be in the account. It's for equipment and machinery. We paid 99% of our 2008 liabilities, so I really don't know when you got this paper, but I can tell you that this guy or he got the money, because it went from the Ministry a long time ago to the Treasury or maybe he lied to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20431	The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Milan Lapcevic and Aleksandar Pejcic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by Miroslav Marinkovic. Since the amendment was adopted by the Government and the Committee on Agriculture, and the Legislative Committee considers it legal, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The amendment was submitted by MP Miroslav Marinkovic to members 16 and all other members showing up. Since the amendment was adopted by the Government and the Committee on Agriculture, and the Legislative Committee considers it legal, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Member of the 16th amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Lidija Dimitrijevic submitted to Article 17 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 18 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Momcilo Duvnjak. There's no answer for word. Member of the 19th amendment was submitted by MP Branimir Djokic. No one's asking for a word. The 20th Amendment was submitted by Siniša Stamenkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 20th Amendment was submitted by Srboljub Zivanovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Mr. Minister, Sasha Dragin, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20432	After a discussion of Honoured Member Radisa Ilic, concerning subsidies to Stanojevic Dobrila, the village of Macura, the municipality of Surdulic, we received information that he has reported on the plot, which he has requested for the time being, a different crop culture, means that he has reported corn on the plot, and thus cannot achieve a subsidy to another culture if he has reported corn. It's very simple. So, if he made a mistake, I recommend that he change the crop culture, so let's see how we can help him, if not, he tried to abuse the possibility of getting a subsidy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20433	According to the amendment, Mr. Master Srboljub Zivanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20434	Since I see the minister is very quick to solve problems, I would like to ask him a question to see if Srboljub Zivanovic was in last year and why he did not charge subsidies for the sown areas? As for this Article 20, the fifth word "Minister" is replaced by "Ministership". By listening to this wonderful discussion that my colleague Krstin made for mineral fertiliser producers, and probably also a discussion in the principle that my colleague Bortić also made for mineral fertiliser producers, I must tell you that we were probably, you know that because you are a doctor of these sciences, and that you know all the producers, or those who were involved in the production of mineral fertilisers, whether in the old Yugoslavia or in the SRJ, but if you look at it now, you will see that it is reduced to a small number of those who are exclusively producing. One of the largest factories probably in the old Yugoslavia that was involved in the production of mineral fertilisers is the "Zorka" Shabac mineral fertiliser factories. Now she doesn't make it anymore. What am I telling you? I'm telling you because for 30 years I've been in maintenance at that factory, and I know very well about technology, and the work of this factory, which could still be dealt with by big world producers, and it must have been very loud, where, from 1980 to 1995 to 1996, we've been exporting these mineral fertilisers to Latin American countries around the world. Unfortunately, with the bad policy and the previous government and all the governments that were, this factory was closed because there was probably no agreement between the commercial contract that was supposed to be "Farmaco", the company that took this factory and, proudly, recovered that production by which this factory was being jacked. If we look now, she or the other factories don't exist, they don't work, we're now dealing with importing, importing finished mineral fertilisers. Mineral fertilizer, in one word, folks, is where the manufacturer is supposed to cheat on nature, to realize, normally with the genetic potential of the plant, the greater the income. What you just said and said when mineral fertilisers or certain substances are imported, there must be a certain laboratory control. Believe me, even in the federal parliament, as a federal MP, I was having problems because at the time, in the internal laboratories, more mineral fertiliser factories in Sapac found that imported mineral fertilisers from Kutina were not at the level of three 15s, but at the level of three eights. No one intervened because it was one big diversion over the producers. Now you see, the manufacturer's damaged, so the farmer's damaged that he bought such a fertilizer, em threw it in certain quantities, prescribed quantities, by which he threw, so he didn't achieve an adequate breed that he was supposed to achieve. I therefore believe that in these laboratories it is necessary to carry out a daily, continuous analysis of mineral fertilisers imported from neighbouring republics, which have now become a force in the production of this product. Unfortunately, we have to say because mineral fertiliser factories in Serbia no longer exist. You can now talk about the production of mineral fertilisers in Subotica, which is very small, in Novi Sad too, which does not exist, Panchevo, Prahovo and that is already done, and we are solely related to the import of mineral fertilisers. On the quality of everything Mr. Milorad Krstin interpreted and said how and how this production was achieved. Perhaps, not knowing why these stones or the tick were found, it is probably found during loading or packing, but in the manufacturing process this product cannot go through such a way of controlling which is strict, so it is impossible to find this side of the body in the production process. I think Mr. Zoran Bortic decidedly and brilliantly described the government's maternal behaviour towards mineral fertiliser producers throughout Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20435	Member of the 20th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Zivkov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 21 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Žutić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 23 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Mr. Radisa Ilic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20436	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have tabled an amendment to Article 23. The proposal for a law on the means of food for plants and land pollinators, so that in Article 23, paragraph 5, the word "minister" is replaced by "ministration". This Article 23 is very important in terms of product quality for two reasons. First of all, because of the use of plants as food, as well as the export of agricultural products that have to meet high standards in countries where they are exported. The most rigorous are the conditions in the EU, but there is, we must admit, and a large market, the largest since Russia. Today I also mentioned a problem with raspberries a few years ago, and so it will be with other agricultural products unless conditions for use are respected, in this case, artificial fertilisers and nutrients. Indeed, rigorous control of the resources used to feed plants is necessary, and the minister is aware that there are no real controls, that suspicious products appear on the market, and that my colleagues, Srboljub Zivanovic and Milorad Krstin, even go so far as to find themselves in bags with the marks of known artificial fertiliser producers, there are mixed ground white stone and other material with fertilizers, so the unrared scenes, as you have just heard, that fields with crops are literally white of such artificial fertilisers thrown away after a few weeks. When an inspection report is to be carried out after that, it turns out that there is no declaration on the product, the trader does not remember the supplier, and in fact the actual damage is suffered only by the agricultural producer.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20437	National MP Vladan Jeremic submitted to Article 24 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 25 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Natasa Jovanovic. The word doesn't want anyone. The 26th amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has an MP, Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20438	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, as regards the allegations raised by the People's MPs Milorad Krstin in front of the SRS and Mr. Srboljub Zivanovic, I think they are qualified and really well aware of this matter, well point out, give recommendations and warn and warn about what needs to be done in relation to agriculture in the Republic of Serbia. I'll just look back on the position and situation of Azotara Panchevo. Azotara "Pancevo" was built and released in 1963. Now, a privatisation contract has been broken where the foreigners from abroad came and bought that factory for $13m, and if there were nine million on the lager, so that these white-world thugs who came to Serbia with a bag and a bow and robbed the country for 45m euros. What did they do? They've unmounted a new Carbamid 2 factory that's supposed to be released into production. It was disarmed, taken abroad and sold for 32m euros, and its book value was 45m euros. In that factory, there are now about two thousand workers out of work, which would have been more than three and a half thousand with their family members at the moment, who were left without bread, without pay, without any existence. Since the deal with the customers was broken, the Action Fund has taken over the liabilities, so the state has taken over Azotara. What happens now, why is the Government of the Republic of Serbia stopping and why is it not taking steps not to involve Azotara Panchevo in the process of producing the most quality fertilizer produced by her former SFRY? So Mr. Bajatovic said that Azotara would be part of the NIS. If so, I ask the government and the Prime Minister – what will the government do to include the production of artificial fertilizer in Azotara "Pancevo" and help workers? Otherwise, about three thousand souls will come before the government of the Republic of Serbia to ask for bread, because there is nothing to live on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20439	The word has a minister, Dr. Sasha Dragin.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20440	I thank Mr. People's MP Peter Jojic for a very good discussion. I can't agree absolutely, except what you said about the privatisation of Azotara Panchevo. The biggest problem is that by standing up to Azotara "Pancevo" we are losing the only mineral fertilizer factory that could produce a nitrogen component from natural gas. As you know, right now, except in Russia, the nitrogen component is very difficult to produce, because Russia dictates the price of gas. It is very important that the contract, related to the pipeline that needs to be passed through our country, the gas deals and the price for this part of the production, i.e. the production of the nitrogen component. The second most expensive component is phosphate. It's mostly imported from Syria. It's also important that we engage all our capacities, try to run and produce a phosphate component in our country, and there's an indication that this can be done in a municipality in the south of the country. For this reason, I can say that I am in constant contact with the director of Serbiaagas and it is in the interest of this country to start production there as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20441	The 27th amendment was submitted by Srboljub Zivanovic. Does anyone want a word? Mr. Zivanovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20442	I submitted an amendment to Article 27, and in that amendment, I predicted that the manufacturer with the designation "EC FERTILISER" should not be deleted because he is an EU producer. But you have now confirmed by refusing this amendment that EU products are produced and distributed to Serbia's market, counterfeit goods, and it is necessary to carry out rigorous controls on these products. What you just said about mineral fertiliser producers, see here, Panchevo produced ammonia and the only substance, the only raw material we imported is phosphate. In the phosphatic acid production plants, we could produce that substance. So, everything that is like sulphuric acid -- which was by-product in Bor and which was also used in mineral fertiliser factories, when you look at how many people were employed here in the mineral fertiliser factory, there were about 1,700 people employed, so when you look at where these people are now and how much production is -- we were just covering that by-product with which certain producers, like in Bor or here in Panchev, don't know what they're going to do, where they're going to lager it, but they absorbed it and we were also getting quality mineral fertilizer. I must tell you honestly, when the mineral fertilizer factory was under the name "Parmacoma", then it wasn't the fertilizer of three 15s, but three sixteens, the quality was above what was prescribed. As for the employment of people who were able to make their income and their lives for their families, this is marginalized today, that is what today's Privatisation Agency has ruined industrial production in Serbia. Now you as a minister must regain faith to regenerate those factories. It's that I'm stopping the mineral fertilizer factory most of the time when they're standing because the corrosion destroys them, the atmosphere and everything else, which means that you have to try to regenerate these factories, because as far as I can see now, the mineral fertilizer factory is being sold in the Hatco, but it's only going to be like a mixer, where certain substances will be imported and only repacked there, and in fact it's not going to go into this kind of production that I've been telling you about.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20443	National MP Miroslav Marinkovic submitted to the 40th amendment. Since the amendment was adopted by the Government and the Committee on Agriculture, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The 44th Amendment was submitted by Miroslav Marinkovic. Since the amendment was adopted by the Government and the Committee on Agriculture, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The 45th Amendment was submitted by the Committee on Agriculture. Since an amendment was adopted at the meeting of the Committee on Agriculture, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The 46th Amendment was submitted by the Committee on Agriculture. Since an amendment was adopted at the meeting of the Committee on Agriculture, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Since we have completed the examination of the draft law in particular, does the representative of the proposing Dr Sasa Dragin, Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, want the final word? No, I don't. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 8th point of the agenda: – PROPOSE OF THE LAW ON THE CENTRALS FOR THE PROTECTION OF BILJA (specificities) You have received amendments submitted on the draft of the law by the MPs: Dejan Nikolic, Milan Lapčević, Zoran Mašić, Milan Avramović, Boris Aleksic, Dragan Aćimović, Elena Bozan-Talijan, Milorad Buha, Milan Vjesinović, Lidija Vukić, Jadranko Vuković, Slobodan Vuković, Jovan Damjanović, Lidija Dimitrijevic, Momcilo Duvnjak, Branimir Djokić, Srboljub Živanovic, Dragan Žučović, Nikola Žutić, Radiša Jeremić, Nataša Jojić, Radica Jokić, Ljubomir Krasić, Zoran Krasić, Zoran Krasić, Milar Živić, Milarštović, Milašić, Milažić, Šović, Milić and Štažalić. You have received reports from the Committee on Agriculture and the Legislative Committee, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. The draft laws have become an integral part of the amendments of the People's MPs: Dejan Nikolic, titled Chapter II, title above Articles 5, 6, 7 and 9 and all other members where the words "reference laboratory" appear; titled above Articles 73 and 73, 75; Miletic Mihajlovic to Articles 27, 30 and 45; Saša Dujovic to Members: 32, 34 and 87; Milisava Petronijevic to Articles 88 and 92 and Zoran Kasalovic to Article 91, because they were accepted by the Government and the Committee for Agriculture, and the Legislative Committee considers that they are legally possible. As the National Assembly carried out a principled search, pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. On behalf of Chapter 2, the title above Articles 5 and 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Nikolic. The government and the Committee on Agriculture have adopted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. To Article 6. The amendment was submitted by Ambassador Dejan Nikolic. The government and the Committee on Agriculture have adopted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. To Article 7. The amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milan Lapcevic. The government and the Committee on Agriculture have not accepted the amendment, the legislative committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Article 7. The amendment was submitted by Ambassador Dejan Nikolic. The government and the Committee on Agriculture have adopted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. To Article 9. and all the members in which the words "reference laboratory" appear the amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Nikolic. The government and the Committee on Agriculture have adopted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. To Article 14. The amendment was submitted by Ambassador Zoran Mašić. The government and the Committee on Agriculture have not accepted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Dr Zoran Mašić.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20444	Mr. Vice-President, Mr. Minister, co-workers at the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, I have submitted an amendment to Article 14 in order to be more precisely defined before all time, for which the Ministry should carry out an evaluation of the active substance in plant protection means, so that it is proposed to add a new position that should read: "Assessment of the active substance, i.e. the basic substance of plant protection products, must be carried out no later than one year from the date of submission of the application for registration of plant protection funds". The addition of this article is also proposed to add, i.e. Amendment 5, and so on – that the minister prescribes uniform principles for the assessment of the active substance, i.e. the basic substance of plant protection and decision making in accordance with the modern international methodology. The Proposer did not accept this amendment, explaining that certain amendments were made in Article 20, and it does not matter, I cannot find, and for these reasons it is not accepted. Finally, I respect the motionary's decision. I just want to say about this, because I didn't report as an authorised proposal for this set of laws, which refers to the protection of plant health, then the means to feed and these plant protection products, that these are mostly well-conceived laws, and that they will introduce significant order in this problem and more significant aid in the field of plant cultivation. If the promoter has changed his mind, I would be happy to accept this amendment, if not at the very least to respect this decision.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20445	The amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) To Article 21. The amendment was submitted by Ambassador Boris Aleksic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Article 22. The amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Acimovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Article 22. The amendment was filed by Elena Christmas-Talian. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Article 22. The amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Article 23. The amendment was submitted by Milan Veselinović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Article 23. The amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Vukicevic. He doesn't answer for a word. To Article 23. The amendment was submitted by Ambassador Jadranko Vukovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Article 23. The amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Vukovic. No one's looking for a word. To Article 23. The amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Article 23. The amendment was filed by Lydia Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Article 24. The amendment was submitted by Ambassador Momcilo Duvnjak. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Article 24. The amendment was submitted by MP Branimir Djokic. There's no answer for word. To Article 24. The amendment was submitted by Srboljub Zivanovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Mr. Srboljub Zivanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20446	I think this plant protection matter is very complex and should have given it particular weight and connotation just as far as the application of these reports is concerned. We also know well that most raw materials are imported, and that few producers of plant protection products in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, which can also be said to be shut down, are not working because of the privatisation process. The very control of the preparations is under question, very disputable, and especially their application. You well know that agricultural producers are forced to use preparations as a result of protection against weeds. They usually put a larger amount or a higher dose so that instead of acting on the weeds, they actually act harmfully on the plants that they need to produce. It's also problematic here, because also these labs that study the quality of these preparations are not available, that is, those trading houses that deal with the distribution of preparations and sales are also without any control. It must have been what I mentioned yesterday and told the minister. This morning, I invited people to explain to us how and how these herbicides are present on certain agricultural products. You gave me one answer yesterday that probably satisfied you or you're dealing with them, who told me exactly about the soybean product, where the modified soybean is and where this standard soybean is. So, in those first runs when he examines whether it's modified or not, or determined, it can even happen that the combination worked, means the very modified soybean and that there are still a number of grains left during the surrender in that standard soybean, that is, what are the first recognizable signs that the modified soybean or standard soybeans? It's just the presence of herbicides on soybean seeds. The same is true, probably in 1988, when your colleague, for objective reasons, cannot mention his name, when he defended the doctoral dissertation – the use of radiation after Chernobyl, where he examined radiation on certain agricultural products. You probably know that the mossy vegetables with the highest percentage of radiation, while when you look at tomatoes, when you look at one single fruit – strawberries, they have zero presence of radioactivity in these products, as well as on the product of potatoes, which is probably how much of a herbicide is delivered in its cultivation process, that it absorbs it into the root, or in potatoes, it would probably be dangerous for a man. But this is very important precisely because of the amount of herbicides, because the uncontrollable use of protective preparations in agricultural production is uncontrollable and therefore attention should be paid. You see in various markets where agricultural products are sold, there are no controls anywhere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20447	The word has a minister, Dr. Sasha Dragin.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20448	First of all, I would like to say, for the reason that the agricultural producer would not accidentally be damaged if, for example, the truck carrying a transgender product was used to transport a standard product, the rule by which it is in conformity with the European Regulation, where the quantitative or quantitative limit is 0.9%. That's the first thing. The second thing, once again, to explain to you, is not to test herbicide, but to test whether this strain is resistant to that Herbicide. It's a pi-si-ar reaction that doesn't define finding pesticide residuals, but genetic markers determine whether there's a gene that defines the resistance or resistance that sows at this, so you're wrong. I can tell you that it's very important to preserve our production, intimate, from transgender organisms, because the price of standard cultures is far higher, organic three times higher. For that reason, it's very important that we do so. This administration will do everything to protect the health of citizens of Serbia, as well as the potency of our economy, i.e. agricultural production and seed houses, in such a way as to limit the use of transzgen organisations exclusively to scientific studies, and that they cannot be found at all in traffic, or in sales, or, as they say, to someone to eat. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20449	Member of the 25th Amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Zivkov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 25 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Žutić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) (Dragan Todorovic, from the place: Srboljub Zivanovic has the right to reply. ) Replica is the discreet right of the chairman to assess whether he will give it or not. At this point, I think there is no basis for the replica, because both participants in the discussion expressed their every opinion and that part of the story ended. On the other hand, no one mentioned anyone directly. Member of the 25th amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) (Dragan Todorovic, from the post: I volunteered as head of the parliamentary group for your presentation, but again I have a problem with the card or is that your discretionary right? Are you calling for a breach of the Rules of Procedure? The breach of the Rules of Procedure is advertised by MP Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20450	Mr. Novakovic, I don't think you have discretionary rights and that you have violated Article 104, the dignity of this assembly. All present heard the presentation of Minister Sasa Dragin, where he decidently addressed Mr. Srboljub Zivanovic, even used some expressions, which, I think, were not in place, but it is a matter of the minister and I will not enter into it. You were obliged to give Srboljub Zivanovic the right to the replica. Mr. Srboljub Zivanovic, you have had the opportunity to hear already in the debate, is a man who is extremely well understood in this problem and as an expert, as a master, and soon probably also as a doctor of science and as a man who is directly involved in production. I think that in these cases this discretionary right of yours should in some way be completely aside and give opportunity to an MP in such debates, especially because there was no reason why Srboljub Zivanovic would not get the opportunity to take his view on the minister's discussion, because this is about a problem for which we are all interested. We cannot all participate in this, because this requires a particular education related to the area, when it comes to genetically modified products. It's something our public is interested in. We have no reason to give our full trust to the Ministry and the Minister. We prefer to hear more sources, in order to be absolutely sure that the ministry, or legislator, has provided for all possibilities, in order to protect our citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20451	I just asked for the service and intervened in connection with the failure of your card. I apologize so much, but because of the atmosphere that has so far ruled, I will accept the suggestion, although I have not hurt the Rules of Procedure, and I will give my word to Mr. Srboljub Zivanovic, on the basis of which he calls. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20452	Above all, I have to say that in one course of the minister's exposure, we agree, but we have to Decidently say that what he said about these manual laboratories, at one point he's talking about a complex laboratory that gives an adequate report, but the manual laboratories at the time, at the time of the soybean reception, must discover not which herbicide was applied but the presence of herbicides on soy seed. There were two liquids in which the soybeans were inserted. It is inserted into one and the other liquids, and this is the liquids of different colors, asking the lab how it reveals the presence of total herbicides, and we know well that modified soybean can be sprayed with total herbicide to destroy the widest and narrow weeds. So it's decadent here, what you're telling me, is how it's revealed. I'm not asking you to explain to me which herbicide has been applied, but whether or not a total herbicide has been applied, because you know well that the standard production of soybeans cannot be used as total herbicides, and in modified soybeans, means that protection against narrow and broad weeds is used by these total herbicides and the production of modified soybeans is much more profitable and is certainly, by the amount of soy produced, per hectare, higher. That is why it has begun to be produced with us, and I do not need to tell you about the harmfulness, because you are on the Committee on Agriculture, and you have probably also shown here in the Assembly the harmfulness of such soybeans, or modified products. That was my goal to tell you. So it's impossible to bring up-to-date laboratories and examine them, rather than manual laboratories used when receiving goods, or soy, in silos when receiving them.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20453	The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20454	He's making another clarification. What you're talking about is comic strips. And yet, comic strips are not determined by the presence of total herbicide but by genetic modification. That's the third time I've explained it. So it's not herbicide, it's genetic modification. Another important thing, genetically modified soybean is not used because it has higher yields than it does because it doesn't take so much to spray. So you spray it once and you're done with a total herbicide, which is why she's resistant to it. Is that clear now? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20455	Thank you, Minister. It was a nice colloquial debate. I think we learned something. Member of the 25th amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 25th amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Jeremic. There's no answer for word. Parliamentarian Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 25th amendment. There's no answer for word. The 26th amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 26 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radica Jocic. No one wants a word. Ambassador Ljubomir Kragovic submitted to the 26th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 26 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 27 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milan Lapčević. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Mr Milan Lapčević has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20456	The Honorable Chairman, Mr Minister, of Article 27 which speaks of the use of unregistered plant protection products, I have submitted an amendment that is about this way - in the case of unpredictable threats that can cause harmful organisms, which cannot be contained or restricted in an appropriate way by applying registered plant protection and other measures, or due to the shortage of registered plant protection products on the market, the Minister may grant a limited and controlled application of unregistered plant protection funds. The decision referred to in this Article shall be taken on official duty or upon request by the party and shall be subject to the request for the application of non-registries for the protection of plants to the Ministry of Plants to provide information or documentation on the basis of which it can be established that plant protection funds are registered in another country. My addition is – as is the opinion of the reference laboratory or the scientific institute for plant protection. Why do I think it is not bad and perhaps necessary to deliver the expert opinion of the reference laboratory or the scientific plant protection institute? You have, in your explanation for the refusal of amendments, stated that the amendment is not accepted because the opinion of the reference laboratory or the scientific plant protection institute is not necessary for the limited and controlled use of emergency funds, since it is a means of protecting plants that are registered, and that means being investigated in another country for purposes for which there is a need for emergency use, etc. It is precisely the goal of what I have proposed, the amendment supplement, that, in addition to these funds being registered in another country and, of course, scientifically examined, it is not at all bad for our expert laboratories to give an opinion on this pesticide or the protection facility. It may occur that a party applying for a job to protect a particular area may import some preparation from a country that is not in a scientific or technological sense at a high level and deliver the opinion of a particular laboratory or a certificate of registration in that country, which is not an appropriate preparation or that has different properties, or more toxic than it would be a standard preparation, thus jeopardising the environment where it is applied. I think it would also be necessary to reduce abuses to a minimum if our institutes or professional laboratories were to give an opinion to certain preparations that could possibly be considered for application in such cases. Also, I will refer briefly to the amendment I submitted to Article 7, which discusses doing public-interest jobs in the area of plant protection funds granted in competitions and which are discussed in the Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia. I also suggested that this be complemented by a statement that these competitions are being published on the website of the Ministry of Agriculture's Ministry, because we are on the 21st century god, in the centuries of communication, and why it would be excessive or excessive to announce this competition on the official site of the Ministry of Agriculture. What's that gonna hurt? As far as I know, today in this time, all people, however technically educated, are informed mostly via e-mail or through official websites of certain institutions. That would be the amendment, therefore, put on the official website of competition for public-interest jobs to help those who would work and who would like to participate in the competition. I don't see why you refused the amendment and said that competitions are being published in the Official Messenger and that it was public, and that information relating to the entire work of the Ministry of Agriculture is being published on the site of the Ministry of Agriculture. Well, among other things, the ministry's work is to publish these competitions. I don't think it'll hurt if the competition is announced on the official site of the Ministry of Agriculture.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20457	The 27th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Krstin. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Mr. Milorad Krstin.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20458	My fellow MPs, I will only use two minutes, since I have little left as an authorised representative. This is only the fifth law before us, and we're ten more laws short, and I'll try to speak within two minutes. I'm just going to put out those facts, which is, spending plant protection funds in a permanent reduction since 1985. In 2003, it was more than five times lower than consumption in 1985, i.e. From 15,390 tonnes was reduced to only 3,367 tonnes. Absolutely and relatively low consumption of plant protection products, especially on private property, is certainly one of the basic agrotechnical reasons and reduction of yields in recent years, especially if it is considered that plant diseases and curvature land reduces the yield by about 40%. I said when I was talking about plant-eating and land-mining agents, what to do and how to control the production and sale of artificial fertilisers. I also ask you, Mr. Minister, to pay attention to these powerful privates, who are registered to God as plant protection producers, some are registered as importers of active substances. When a pair respects everything that is in the manual of a chemical plant protection agent, and weather conditions up to 25 degrees, after 25 degrees, it is already under question whether to succeed protection against weeds in corn, if it respects how much it takes per hectare of water in a tanker, it simply happens to him that his spraying does not work.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20459	The word is made by Minister Sasha Dragin.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20460	This year, the Agriculture Ministry's General Inspectorate has done a check on 122 means of protection, which is a good and respectable number.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20461	The 27th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Masic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Dr Zoran Mašić.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20462	Mr. Vice-President, Mr. Minister and Associates at the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 27, and that is two-seat. However, the proponent refused, explaining that the almost identical amendment of Mr Miletic Mihajlovic was accepted. It is only partly true, because one part of the amendment submitted by Mr Miletic Mihajlovic is almost identical to what I submitted, however, the other part of the amendment is complemented in point 3. It is an obligation that the means authorised to import, in terms of the control of harmful organisms, these organisms appeared unplanned, that there is no adequate means in the country to register these organisms and that in order to combat these harmful organisms on plants it is necessary to introduce an instrument that is not registered in our country. The deadline for use is about 120 days, and that is the identity of the amendments I have submitted and Mr Miletic Mihajlovic. Paragraph 3 also states that the means of importing plant protection should be registered in another country, however, the addition to what I wanted to amend is to stand still, in addition to being registered in another country, that it was registered precisely to control the harmful organisms listed in Article 1, which means that it has a registration in that country for those organisms. I am making analogy with similar situations in human veterinary medicine, where certain medicines may be registered in a country for use in certain micro-organisms, but in some other countries these indications may be extended. I think this supplement is more complete than the amendment submitted by Mr Miletić Mihajlović, because it makes it more clear that, in addition to the registration in that dominant country from which the preparation or the means was imported, that the registration process has just registered that means to contain these specific harmful micro-organisms that have appeared in our space. Not only has it been formally registered, but it is mentioned in that registration file and that this agent acts on that particular organism, and that security is higher, that an approved import licence of such funds will indeed show effective results in application. I think the promoter made a mistake not accepting this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20463	The word has a minister, Mr. Dragin, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20464	I thank Mr. Professor. I would like to say that the Ministry of Agriculture will accept this amendment because it defines a far better given area and affects the quality of the bill. Based on Mr. Srboljub's discussion, I'd like to say that this hero was paid in December, and we've received information from the Treasury that he didn't file any re-promotion requests, so if there's been a breach of the Treasury, let him provide us with documentation to make a mistake. If he didn't, it means he gave a false statement. Otherwise, all the subsidies for the repromaterial, 10,000 dinars per hectare, were paid at 100% by the end of last year, I responsibly say.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20465	The 27th amendment was submitted by MP Miletic Mihajlovic. The government and the Committee on Agriculture have adopted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment to be a right, so I find it has become an integral part of the bill. The 27th Amendment was submitted by Tomislav Ljubenović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 30 of the amendment was submitted by MP Igor Becic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Miletic Mihajlović submitted to the 30th amendment. The government and the Committee on Agriculture have adopted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment to be a right, so I find it has become an integral part of the bill. Member of the 31st Amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Maric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 32 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Otto Kishmarton. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Mr. Kishmarton, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20466	A respected presidency, respected ministers and co-workers of the minister, respected MPs, has been put into great effort in drawing up these 15 laws on agriculture, and a good proposal is being made. I must also point out that the work of the Committee on Agriculture, which has professionally and thoroughly considered the proposals of these laws. The members of the board actively participated in the work of the Assembly Committee on Agriculture, because we all have the same goal, which is that in primary and secondary agricultural production, the best results are achieved and that is how agricultural producers make greater profits. Our goal is to develop agriculture, because we from the opposition are not opposition to our agriculture, but to our government. Agriculture is in a very difficult position today and therefore needs as much of our knowledge as we can from the opposition to some improvement and development of the domestic economy. Many amendments have been submitted to this plant protection law and we have submitted a number of good amendments. One part of our amendment has not been accepted, we can say that it was not accepted only for the reasons that the MPs of the opposition submitted it. One such amendment is this amendment to Article 32, which explains why the amendment is not accepted, although it is good, says this - the amendment is not accepted for the reason why the amendment of MP Saša Dujovic was accepted as Article 32. The draft law, which proposes the addition of the member concerned in the same way. So, after me, the exact same amendment was submitted by MP Sasa Dujovic, his amendment is accepted, and my amendment, which is exactly the same, is not accepted. The question arises – what can motivate us to participate in the work of the Committee on Agriculture, to assist in the work of the Committee if our good proposals are rejected, and the same proposals from those in power are accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20467	Mr. Secretary has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20468	After interpreting the work of the Committee, we have been explained that we cannot accept two identical amendments, but if it is a satisfaction, I can say, taking into account the content of your amendment, that we accept the amendments you have made to the law, so count on us to agree on this and accept your amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20469	Sasa Dujovic submitted to Article 32 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Agriculture have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, I find that it has become an integral part of the bill. Member of the 34th Amendment was submitted by MP Vuceta Toskovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 32nd amendment was submitted by MP Sasa Dujovic. The government and the Committee on Agriculture have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, I find that it has become an integral part of the bill. The 36th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Krstin. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 36th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Popovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments in the same text were submitted by MPs Milan Lapčević and Milan Škrbić. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Mr. Lapcevic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20470	Your Honor, Madam President, Mr. Minister, on Article 37, which speaks of the use of plant protection funds at the end of his term, I have submitted an amendment to the article. 2, 3 and 4 are deleted, and they allow the use of plant protection funds after the expiry date. Since it is the means of plant protection that have certain adverse effects on life and the environment, I believe that it is necessary to rule out the use of plant protection funds that have expired. Regardless of what you have said in your explanation that it is the means for whose use the end-user requires permission, this use of funds on a specific parcel from the end-user may cause certain damage in the environment as well. Since it is a single sample carried in the laboratory to analyse and verify whether a particular preparation has the same properties as in the production, there may be an abuse, or an error may occur that the sample has the same properties, and that the remaining amount of certain preparations does not have such properties, so certain damage may occur in the environment and the animal world. So I ask you to consider accepting this amendment, and I would also like to ask for a comment on the previous amendments that I have submitted and that I consider logical and that they should be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20471	The 45th amendment was submitted by MP Miletic Mihajlovic. The government and the Committee on Agriculture have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that it has become an integral part of the bill. Ambassador Milan Lapčević submitted to the 48th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Mr. Lapcevic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20472	Article 48 regulates the application of plant protection products from aircraft, in which way it is permitted, in which situations etc. I felt that, when informing the population, the body of the local self-government unit is obliged to inform bee growers about the use of plant protection products, to inform associations, catchers, managers, users and landowners in protected natural areas and persons registered for the production and cultivation of fish, fertilised eggs and fish younger. But it seems to me that it is not burned that local self-government has an obligation to inform the entire population living in a specific territory where the use of plant protection funds from aircraft will be carried out. I think that notice must contain the exact location of the treatment, the time of treatment and the instructions on how to behave in case a man is found in a particular territory.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20473	Mr. Minister, you have your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20474	After your argument, we are prepared to accept the amendment, because we believe it will make this bill better.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20475	National MP Dragan Stevanovic submitted to the 57th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20476	Mr. Minister, in Article 57(1), we have suggested that instead of words - the minister introduces the word - the ministry. In fact, the member says the minister is issuing a service permit in the field of plant protection funds within three years. I listened very carefully to you earlier when you gave a similar amendment an explanation that there are acts and documents that objectively must be signed on your part and we are absolutely in agreement with that. If we were to agree with this and to support, in some way, that attitude also tells us that we are in the same article, in attitude 3, which says that the expert examination in the field of plant protection means is to be passed before the examination committee, which is being educated by the minister, we did not foresee any changes, nor are we in attitude 5, which says that the minister prescribes a program and way of passing an expert examination in the field of plant protection funds we have proposed changes. We believe it is celery and rational that in attitude 1 instead of words – the minister insert the word - ministry. That you can accept this as a possibility and a variant, I think you've made it clear to the MPs and to explain the text of this law, where you have analysed the members of the law, in the light of Article 57, you've put the ministry of the service in the field of plant protection funds for a period of three years.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20477	National MP Filip Stojanovic submitted to the 57th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 58 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marina Toman. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Srboljub Zivanovic according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20478	According to Article 104(3), I am reporting to the Rules of Procedure, the minister has just made certain false statements about my privacy. What I asked him didn't tell me. I didn't get a grant in 2008 for the submitted documentation for the sown area. That's what I asked you. Last year. I didn't get the hectare to follow me. Everything else you said, all right. I even have to tell you, you say the premiums for the drowned hero that I didn't win, but I did. I got it. But I didn't get the subsidies and the premiums that followed me for the sown surfaces.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20479	I didn't realize which member of the Rules of Procedure you called for?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20480	Article 104(3)
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20481	Mr. Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20482	Once again, since you were not in the O.R., what I have now received from the Treasury – Srboljub Zivanovic in December was paid for this hero, as you said. We've received information from the Treasury that no re-promatter claims have been filed, more specifically by 10,000 per hectare. If there was a vault failure, they asked you to submit documentation to correct the error. I'm talking about 2008. I also mentioned that all subsidies for 2008 per hectare in 100 percent of cases have been settled.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20483	The title above article 73 and article 73 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Nikolic. The government and the Committee on Agriculture have adopted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, and I find that it has become an integral part of the bill. Member of the 75th Amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Nikolic. The government and the Committee on Agriculture have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, I find that it has become an integral part of the bill. Ambassador Milan Lapčević submitted to the 80th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Mr. Lapcevic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20484	Articles 80 to 88 are members who treat criminal provisions for certain failures. I have also submitted to this one, and to some other members of the amendment which increases the criminal measures for certain criminal offences, because it is about the application of funds and substances that can be harmful to the environment. Institutions or people who treat plants with certain means that have adverse consequences must be far more responsible and in this way I think that the greater penalties will act preventively and prevent any consequences in the application of these funds.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20485	Milan Lapčević submitted to the 81st Amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Ambassador Milan Lapčević submitted to Article 82 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 83rd Amendment was jointly submitted by Mr Milan Lapčević and Aleksandar Pejcic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Mr. Pejcic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20486	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, honourable ministers, and these amendments to Articles 83, 84 and 85, as well as in the previous law, speak of these criminal provisions, about tightening the sentence against certain entities to which this law applies.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20487	Members of the 84th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Milan Lapcevic and Aleksandar Pejcic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Mr Lapčević and Pejcic submitted together to Article 85 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 86 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Bozidar Delic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Machine.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20488	Madam President, Mr Minister, co-workers at the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, I would like first of all in front of the producer of plant protection products, it is “Pphytopharmacy” and “Hemovet”, to express in the context of the debate on the amendment thanks to the minister and associates that they have had the understanding of the manufacturer’s objection to the deadline given to them by this law, to essentially form new registration files, to conduct studies for new registrations. The deadline is three years old. By accepting Mr. Milisav Petronivic's amendments, the producers met, as they addressed the Committee on Agriculture directly, with a request to make changes here in this bill. I am pleased that Mr Petronivic's amendment as a representative of the SPS, not the apriors of Mr Delic's amendment, which had a similar content, would extend that deadline from three years to five years, because, again, if it had remained a three-year period, our producers would have had difficulties, which are still some small or medium-sized enterprises compared to large large large plants, such as Baer or others. So they've already contacted me as chairman of the Committee and wondered if it was accepted, I told them that a solid solution was made, that the application of the members from 11th to 25th would essentially start with 31st of December 2013, which is quite a deadline and I thank you once again.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20489	Member of the 87th amendment was submitted by MP Sasa Dujovic. The Government and the Committee on Agriculture Amendments have adopted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers it legal, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Milisav Petronijevic submitted to the 88th amendment. The Government and the Committee on Agriculture have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Member of the 88th amendment was submitted by MP Predrag Mijatovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Mr. Mijatovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20490	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, on behalf of the Prosperity Club, I have tabled an amendment to the Bill on Plant Protection on Article 88(1) and Article 2, i.e. that part of the text after the word "resolve" should be deleted and the rest of the text is deleted. The proposed text of the law provides that the decision to issue a marketing authorisation for pesticides, as well as a solution to issue a provisional marketing authorisation for pesticides, shall be valid until the expiry date of that solution, and for a maximum period of one year from the date of entry into force of this law. This amendment would provide legal certainty for rightholders and put sufficient time on manufacturers to prepare appropriate documentation for the extension of registration. The deadline of one year is extremely short for adapting the business of domestic producers. Consistent with the requirements of this law means large financial resources, which domestic producers do not have at the moment, and the question is whether they will have them within a year. Also, it takes a longer period of time to form registration files, i.e. on ideal conditions, that time is at least three years. The funds for completing registration documents and forming registration files range up to 800,000 euros, and knowing that our domestic producers are small and medium-sized enterprises, it is clear that they are not able to provide such funds within such a short time.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20491	Members of the 91st Amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Kasalovic. The government and the Committee on Agriculture accepted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers it legal, so it became an integral part of the bill. Milisav Petronijevic submitted to Article 92 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Agriculture have adopted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers it legal, so I find that it has become an integral part of the bill. Since we have completed the examination of the draft law in particular, does the representative of the proposing Dr Sasa Dragin, Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, want the final word? No, I don't. ) I conclude the search of the draft law on plant protection products in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Rule 85 of our Rules of Procedure, we will also work after 1800 hours per item of the agenda, which will then be on the agenda. I'd also like to tell you that direct transmission will be up to 2.00 hours, and that our possible further work will be on a delayed transmission. You have received amendments submitted under the bill by the MPs: Milutin Jelic, Milan Avramović, Vjerica Radeta, Dragan Stevanović, Zoran Krasic, Momir Markovic, Sinisa Stamenković, Petar Jojić, Aleksandar Martinović, Natasa Jovanovic, Boris Aleksic, Milorad Krstin, Milorad Buha, Miroslav Petkovic and Zoran Nikolic. You have received reports from the Committee on Agriculture and the Legislative Committee, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Milutin Jelic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milan Avramovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment was submitted by the MEP, Ms Radet. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Mrs. Radeta, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20492	Article 12 speaks about how to enrol in the vineyard register. The stance on which I have submitted the amendment says that the decision of the Minister of Position 4 of this article is final and an administrative dispute can be launched against it. You, Mr. Minister, have respected the legal opinion that Article 136. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia in the second position says that the tasks of the state administration are carried out by the ministries and other state administration bodies laid down by law. The Ministry is a state body, the Minister is an elder of the state authority and in order to be clearer in the explanation of this amendment here, I ask you, Minister, when you are making a decision at the Ministry whether it is in the head or in the introduction of a solution written by Minister Sasa Dragin or written by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the Ministry and that, the number and that. You see, as an amendment that I have submitted on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly, the SRS parliamentary group stands well in the title, and after the disposition and reasoning of the amendments, the name and signature of the MP stands. The exact same situation is also when it comes to the ministries, the ministries are part of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and indeed you have recently accepted the amendment to one of the previous laws which was the same as this amendment, and we very often draw attention to one indifference and unconstitutional nature of the Ministry Act itself, and I think that from purely legal and non-technical... (President: Will you waste the time of the parliamentary group? ) just one second, I end up, so for legal and technical reasons, this amendment is necessary to accept.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20493	Mr. Secretary has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20494	The General Administrative Procedure Act, as well as the State Administration Act, or the Ministry Act regulates that matter, and we really cannot define the problem you mentioned outside these laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20495	On Article 15 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP... Mrs. Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20496	It's nice, Mr. Minister, to report that you speak after each and every one, or to comment on the explanation of each MP, but the way you do it is not appropriate and not in accordance with Article 104. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. You are obliged to pay your respects to the MPs, and that is not how you do it. You don't have any superiority compared to the MPs. You just said a sentence you wanted to give the impression that you knew what you were saying, but half an hour ago you accepted the amendment and then you were right, you didn't have any instructions. Mr. Dragin, the point is that the laws you just spoke of, whose names you have read here, are contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Article 136(2). That's what the MPs of the SRS regularly insist on. We are not convinced that you are ready to accept such a truly, above all, constitutional amendment. This is what we're saying for the record. All that we say here and you and we remain permanently written, and first of all, for the public, and first of all, for the legal public, to draw attention to you and to bring and apply unconstitutional laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20497	The 15th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 25th Amendment was submitted by Siniša Stamenković. Does anyone want a word? Mr. Momir Markovic, did he, by your amendment? Well, you have to answer it. All right, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20498	Read everything before I press the button. You've reported very quickly that you're reading Mrs. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 20 and an explanation for why my amendment is not accepted is the same as the explanation for the member of the 12th Mrs. Vjerica Radeta, Article 28th position of Mr. Petar Jojic, Article 28th position of the 5th Mr. Aleksandr Martinovic, Article 31st position of the 4th Ms. Natasa Jovanovic and Article 61st position of Mr. Milorad Krstin. Everything would be fine, but let's read that argument. It says: "The amendment shall not be accepted for the reasons specified for not accepting the amendment to Article 2.". Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the first member to whom the amendment has been submitted is Article 7. How is it that when no one has submitted an amendment to Article 2 and the reasons why the amendment is not accepted is an explanation for not accepting the amendments to Article 2? Now, ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, both the Minister and all the others who are in charge of following up on this reading of our amendments, that's how deep they are in matter, that's how they're working out what we're delivering to them. So, you look at who wrote the amendment, and then you agree -- this one accepts, this one doesn't accept. I remind you there are no amendments that have been filed by someone from the DS without being accepted. In the end, I couldn't agree more with Mrs. Verita's discussion. The ministry is an institution, the minister is an incoherent body of the institution. The ministry lasts, and ministers only last four years. So, Mr. Dragin, it would be good for your service first, I know you can't do it all to read, at least make sense and sound reasoning. Find me an amendment to Article 2 which one of the MPs has submitted, and at that moment I will withdraw everything I have said.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20499	And your dynamics are quite a speech, as well as my reading. I'd like to say that for any technical error, it's really not the minister who's responsible, it's the professional service. Therefore, if there are such, they cannot be put to the heart of the Ministry and of the minister. On the basis of Article 25, paragraph 5, Article 142 is amended as follows: Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, submitted by the Committee on Agriculture. The representative of the proposer accepted the amendment at the meeting of the Committee on Agriculture. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 28th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Mr. Markovic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20500	Peter Jojic, not me? Mr. Petar Jojic, his amendment will defend him. I just wanted to tell you -- this can't be a technical mistake. There is a Article 2 in this law and someone should find an amendment that one of the MPs has submitted to Article 2. That means you can't read anything. This means that such sabers are rejected by the amendments, and that means that it should then be a little more serious for both the Ministry and the services doing so to pay attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20501	Mr. Jojic, you have to answer if you want to make an amendment. Would you like to take it? Now you get the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20502	My colleague Markovic gave a detailed explanation, I do not want to explain it, and I remain on the table and I think he is absolutely celebular to be adopted, because it is a norm that must be, above all, clear, precise, logical, but cannot be contrary to the other provisions of the proposed law.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20503	Mr. Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20504	After I've seen the paperwork, I can tell you that neither the Ministry has made a mistake, nor are professional services. The mistake is only in your reading, because it says nice under two, explanation two, then parentheses, amendment to Article 12. The proposal, etc., and here is the explanation: "Amendment is not accepted for the reasons set out in Amendment Two." As you can see, here it is Amendment Two. If I don't take my time right now, I'll come over and explain it to you myself.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20505	National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 28th amendment. (Employees gain from the bench that the amendment has been repeated. That's it, that's it. The 28th Amendment was submitted by Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 31 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Natasa Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 38th amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 61 of the amendment was submitted by Parliamentarian Milorad Krstin, who wants a word. Here you go, Mr. Kristin.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20506	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I will use time as an authorised representative. When it comes to the wine law, based on a letter from the Association of Winemakers of Serbia, it is clear that there are ambiguities here. "Many of the members of the proposal for a wine law, I will have to read a little faster because I don't have much time, in Serbia are known from 40 years ago, and the Spanish gentlemen representing the EU depicted them as something new, which was very offensive to our producers, so once they were reminded that Serbs were not cavemen that they knew nothing, that they could not talk to them like that. Do those who prescribed EU regulations know that Serbia is a sacred country, that such a combination of land and climate does not exist anywhere in Europe, that Serbia has exceptional conditions to deal with viticulture and fruit production, and hence for processing, that there are many specialities that are determined, so it is not only possible to rewrite what is written in EU regulations. What many varieties of vines can achieve in Serbia can never be achieved in EU countries, so that the restrictions on the yield proposed for the production of wine, certain categories, have nothing to do with common sense. Such a thing must not be allowed, and every discreet and vineyarded agronomist will be against it. But the promoters could not give up some old Serb qualities, such as setting the law for certain groups of people. In certain words, it is the importers of wine and grapes in the rinfuze. This has led to the introduction of members who allow the import of grapes and wine into the reef, and here we show great concern for Serbian wineries and winemaking. The introduction of a vineyard and wine register should be welcomed, but it is nothing new in Serbia either. It used to be a city or village notebook, stamped and distributed barrels, stamped and spread out riverbeds, gave permission to work, kept records of production long before the EU. The labelling of wine as it is in the EU, as proposed in Chapter Five, is at least ridiculous. This is not a designation of wine that has roots in the regions, it is not clear to the promoters, and especially to the promoters. According to EU representatives in Serbia from Spain, because it is a complicated designation of wine and that customers fail to read labels, there has been a significant decline in the consumption of wine produced in the EU. It is much simpler to mark wine from overseas countries, as it has been in Serbia so far, and has affected a significant increase in their sales to the EU market. If this is the wine law, according to the promoters, which protects the Serbian producer, how do you explain that even before the end of the draft in the transport chapter again the import of wine and grapes in the rinfuze. They fight against such imports in words, and parts thereof. This draft encourages him. How do you explain the overwritten regulations when the EU's representatives in Serbia themselves said they would mostly cease to be valid in 2014? What will happen to Serbia when Serbia will not join the EU by then, and perhaps the EU will fall apart by then? Serbian producers do not need an EU regulation, they need order and discipline and they clearly know the rules of the game. '"
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20507	On Article 64, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Excuse me, Mr. Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20508	First of all, I would like to say that it is very clearly defined by the Cefta agreement that some goods can be imported freely. What is also defined, that only grapes imported from ceft of the region for the production of table types of wine can be used, means for wines without geographical origin. As I assume you know there are tables of wine, wines of geographical origin and there are archival wines. Of course, despite the fact that only a table of wine is allowed, it must be clearly on the label to see where the grapes from which the wine was produced come from. What I cannot agree with is the conclusion that in the EU they do not know how to make wine, but that we are for God's sakes. Unfortunately, with poor agricultural policy in the 1960s, large vineyards have been disembarked in Serbia. More than 60,000 hectares as far as it was unearthed by an unsolicited policy, where someone said all of Serbia must grow grain. What matters to us is to establish the geographical origin of all the vineyards that exist, to raise them as much as possible. What is also important, it is to bring our legislation and our positive legal regulations into line with what countries like France, such as Spain, such as Italy, are doing. These are the largest and most famous wine producers in the world. This law was worked with us by Spanish experts from the Rioha region, which is one of the most famous regions in the world for wine production. I think this job is really well done. All the other suggestions you have and which will make this law better, we are prepared to accept, indeed, regardless of party membership. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20509	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Dragan Todorovic, by amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20510	I'm referring to Article 104. Mr. Minister, I have the impression that you really don't respect Article 104's intention to not address MPs with the duty of dignity, it seems to me that you have a desire to, in some way, make a mockery of some MPs. Where do you get the right to say it seems to me an MP, you should know that there are tables of wine with geographical origin and archival etc. Let's just say, if you'd given me such a question, I'd say "a painful walk," about an anecdote. Mr. Milorad Krstin has shown in a debate so far that he is quite professional and that he is ruling this matter. What is the basic wish of SRS MPs, Mr Dragin, is to defend our country in all segments, and also in this segment that is extremely important, because our country is being destroyed in all segments in these nine years, especially in agricultural production. This was brought to you by Srboljub Zivanovic earlier on about artificial fertilisers, not just artificial fertilisers. You can see that they predict that only in 2014 will we be in a situation to come to 1988 for production, because our country is being planically destroyed by the EU. You're on their hands in every way. Just because that social production didn't give us a certain quality and certain results, just about the relationship to social property, doesn't mean that it... It's been two minutes, bring the end, please. ) does not mean that you now in this situation, when there is state and private property, lose that chance, that our agricultural producers, both worthy and capable, with the help of the state, have come very quickly to be competitive. Unfortunately, you're not only giving them a chance, you're looking at them in every way possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20511	On Article 64, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MPs Miroslav Petkovic and Zoran Nikolic submitted together to the 64th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Since we have completed a search of the bill in particular, does the Government, or Minister Dr. Sasha Dragin, want a word? No, I don't. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 10th point of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF RAKIJA AND OTHER ALKOHOLIC DRINKS (individuals) You have received amendments submitted at the bill by the MPs: Tomislav Nikolic, together Milos Radulović and Miroslav Petkovic, Milorad Krstin, Vesna Marić, Aleksandra Jerkov, Dusan Marić, Zoran Mašić, jointly Milos Radulović and Milan Dimitrijevic, Ljubomir Kragović, Radica Jocic, Momir Marković, Aleksandar Martinović, Olena Papug, Sladjan Mijaljevic, Milutin Jelic, Milonković, Vlado Milojković, Mićo Rogović and together Milos Radulović and Miroslav Petkovic. You have received reports from the Committee on Agriculture and the Legislative Committee, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. National MPs Milos Radulovic and Miroslav Petkovic submitted the 3rd amendment together. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Mr Radulović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20512	In the opinion of the general public, this bill is considered extremely bad. Otherwise, I come from Racine County, where there are several large liquor producers. First of all, I mean Rubin's Kruševac, the Zupa wine also, and we have a manufacturer in Triestenik "Sloga's Triestenik". What characterizes this law is that the text of the bill came after the annulment of the results of the almost one-year working group formed by the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management of the Republic of Slovenia, whose draft law completely rejected this ministry in addition to the public debate, and through the procedure with which the non-existent draft was found here today. The lack of public debate was, of course, the consequence that certain provisions of this law were adopted although they were written without having any thought about the consequences that such provisions would have for manufacturers, especially those dealing with the production of brandy, and the production of other alcoholic beverages such as vodka, liqueurs and brandy. Basically, we want to change Article 3 where it is written – that it is prohibited in storerooms and areas where brandy products are held, or to use sugar, ethanol and other means and matter that can increase the quantity and change the prescribed natural ingredients of rakija.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20513	Members of the 3rd amendment were submitted by MP Tomislav Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20514	I would not agree that the bill is bad, as I consult all associations of producers for this draft law. I can tell you the following, here, I'm going to ask you a direct question: if someone produces brandy, it produces ethanol and does not produce ethanol, it does not produce a buzzer or anything, what's in that same room to have sugar and ethanol, for what reason? If natural brandy is not put into it sugar, if natural brandy is not put into it ethanol – what ethanol and sugar should require in that room. It's very simple. I don't understand the content of the amendment. Because it's very simple, that if you produce rakija, it's known that rakija is made from fermented fruit, etc., it's roasted by distillation and all – what is sugar, or ethanol, if you don't want to put it in brandy and so forge the product? It's very simple.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20515	Mr. Milos Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20516	Brandi, liqueurs are products that add sugar, too, these producers are also wine producers, and you, Mr. Minister, know that in certain periods it is sugar that is added to wines.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20517	The amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Krstin. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20518	Namely, the proposal for a law on brandy has a lot of anomalies. First of all, the government makes a big mistake calling brandy in the first draft law on rakia-industry. If we know that Serbian brandy is an alcoholic drink produced by 100 per cent of Serbian fruit that has been fermented and produced by double distillation in a traditional way in Serbia, how can our national product not be agricultural? Gentlemen, you cannot be ashamed of a product that can truly become Serbia's national pride with little concern. We have an example of Scotland, which has made a world-renowned brand with great care and clever treatment of Scottish whiskey. Look how they did it, and you'll understand. By disclaiming the natural persons from the proposal for a rakija law, which according to the Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs' records is about 1,700, and according to our assessment, I believe that the rakia producer's association has as much as 10,000 to 20,000, it is allowed, as it can be seen here, to give a boost to some grey economy and anarchy on the market. It will come to the fact that we have an offer of bad quality brandy on the market, unless those who deal strictly with the production of brandy are protected. If we have a loudspeaker and a lot of those who deal with such brandy production, and they are still in the shops and markets of Serbia, we will be in a situation where when we take and open that cap to ask ourselves whether I will be alive after one glass or after the other, which has a better wreath. Then there will be immediate avoidance of excise and tax payments, and that is evident. There is an immediate budget revenue, and in this way it would amount to over one billion dinars, if VAT were to be paid in terms of having so many and so many producers. There it is evident that the Ministry of Finance should have tightened the adoption of this law, because the budget revenues that are lagging behind these years are very high. However, I wanted to draw your attention, Minister. The reduction in the production of certain brandy producers based on the purchase of brandy from natural persons; the government rather than making it easier, it complicates the very work of producers, as if by this law it does not want Serbia's progress in this respect, but rather wants the production of brandy to be completely shut down. This existing wine and brandy law was passed back in 1994. That law must have been a good law. The fact that now, as you said in your previous presentation on the Law of Wine, you told me that recorded experts from Spain participated in the creation of this wine law, and I tell you, what I read, was done by Dr. Wine Production Professor. That's right, Doctor Professor, I don't mean to advertise here, but I'll tell you, as I'm reading right now, that they've been made by the most prominent experts in the production of brandy. At the beginning of this law, which was in 1994, almost frozen the production of brandy in Serbia at the beginning of its 14th year of application. The abandoned orchards start slowly from year to year to recover. The number of registered producers that meet the legal conditions for the production of brandy is increasing and reaches a figure of close to 2,000. There is a whole range of new brandy brands on the market that fight with quality for domestic and foreign customers. So, by good law, you will create as much competition on the market as possible. What's happening to us now? This law now happens to us that we have imports of bottles from Italy, we have imports of cork cork, which used to be produced with us, from Spain. The labels are made of the embossed type, because they are no longer interesting ordinary, clear and loud, but the embossed type, and when you drag your hand, you simply think you've dragged over some geographic map that has that purpose. Every day, Mr. Minister, a good law would grow the lost reputation of brandy, and it is growing in competition with imported drinks, which are unfortunately like these whiskeys called 'chivas' and others, Vesna Rivas, the worst Gilas. I think you should have consulted a little bit and people like Professor Nikicevic, to see a little bit that this law can really be up to the law. When we don't have any more buzzers, we have more high-quality dandelion, pears, pots, plums. Serbia is known for its lushness, and you cannot say that, when it comes to quality, it is a geographically recognizable quality. No, the quality of the manufacturer is recognizable. Where that is, that's another story, whether it was out there somewhere around Leskovec or on a Saturday cave, it's something else entirely. But if there is good, quality grapes, both the one in Subotica and the one in the Nis area can produce good wine. It's not exactly a geographical priority. So much for now.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20519	Mr. Minister, please, you have your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20520	I thank the esteemed MP, Milorad Kristin. I would just like to say for your information that since the Ministry's website, the draft law has been published in January 2009, 720 manufacturers have applied for market production, and 114 new manufacturers have been registered since January, so what you said is a good law and a draft law and an increase in production absolutely correct.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20521	Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Maric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Alexander Jerkov. The government and the Committee on Agriculture have adopted this amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Mr. Dusan Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20522	Ladies and gentlemen, I have submitted an amendment to suggest that the list of expert cadre producers who must have, in addition to agronomy engineers, or graduate master engineers, technology engineers, graduate technology engineers – master of food and technology or biotechnology orientation of academic studies. I believe this is in line with the essence of Article 9 and that this amendment should be accepted. I will refer to Article 9, paragraph 1, which reads: ‘The production of brandy and other alcoholic beverages may be used by a legal person or entrepreneur registered in the register of economic operators and entered in the register of brandy producers and other alcoholic beverages’. What does this mean? This means that tens of thousands of people who have made brandy, who have made wine, will not be able to do so since June 1st if they are not registered as producers of brandy. Is it gonna register? Of course they won't, most of them won't. Will they stop making schnapps after the adoption of this law? Of course they won't, and there's no law, there's no authority to force a Serb peasant to do so. By passing this law, you are hitting on folk tradition, at the core of folk customs, in one way, the philosophy of life in Serbia, because people have been roasting it for generations, and you are now trying to stop it, to ban a Serb from roasting 50 or 100 liters of brandy in his own backyard, in his own court, in his own box, from his plums for his use. You want to get people to buy other people's brandy instead of their own, they knew what they were real, they knew their taste, they bought other people's brandy. I warn Serbian citizens of the essence of what you're doing. I also remind you of what you have brought them and Serbia only for 10 months of your rule. You promised to open 200,000 new jobs 10 months ago. You have led to 330 workers out of work daily in Serbia, a monthly 10,000 people from their jobs being thrown into the street. You promised a European perspective, you promised to lift visas, put Serbia on the white Schengen list, and here's what they have from that European perspective you promised -- they have a law forbidding them from buying a glass of their brandy.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20523	Mr. Dragin, and then we'll take a break.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20524	I would like to refer the honourable MP to the fact that we have not accepted his amendment for a simple reason, because he only cited "the technology engineer" there, while we have a food direction engineer in the law. Because an engineer of technology can be an engineer of technology, like oil derivatives, which you certainly agree not to be a suitable person to deal with the production of brandy. What's also important to mention is that you bring misinformation to the MPs, as well as public opinion, because it's not written anywhere in the law, that someone can't produce brandy for their own purposes. It just says he can't put her on the market. In other words, when you make a brandy, you can't sell it unless you're registered, which has been an absolute case so far. For your own purpose, you can produce it and drink it as much as you want.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20525	I'm setting a break until 3:00 p.m. when we'll continue our work. [[After break – 15/05]] We're continuing our work. Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Zoran Mašić. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20527	The Honorable Presidency, Mr. Minister, co-workers at the Ministry, this amendment was intended to extend the number of professional skills to carry out tasks in the process of rakia production. The amendment was written in line with a letter submitted by the University of Belgrade Chemical Faculty, explaining that they are training biochemists who are trained to monitor the process of alcohol fermentation and those processes that take place in the framework of the production of brandy, if so said, so that the amendment was aimed at expanding the number of professional skills, in addition to what was given in the original bill. It was somewhat extended by the amendment the motionor accepted, the amendment was filed by Miss Alexandra Jerkov. However, it remains that the professional training of biochemists in performing professional tasks in the rakia production process has been omitted, so that the amendment aims to enable the graduate biochemist to carry out tasks in the production process. Respecting the authority of the dean and the prodigal of the chemical college, and the students studying in that direction, this amendment has been submitted. It's up to the promoter to assess whether he can accept it or not. In any case, then you can expect the university's reaction, especially those who are studying that direction, if the promoter remains consistent not to accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20528	Mr. Dusan Maric, just tell me what the basis is.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20529	Replication to Mr. Secretary's presentation.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20530	There was nothing offensive about the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20531	As it wasn't offensive, how a sarcastic remark about my ability to be a producer of alcohol, a producer of brandy, etc.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20532	There was really nothing offensive about it. You may have had it a little personal, but believe me, I'm pretty objective. National MPs Milos Radulovic and Milan Dimitrijevic submitted the 9th amendment together. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, Mr. Radulovich.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20533	We have also made an observation in the principle debate that this bill does not give the possibility and the natural persons associated with the cooperative and the agricultural cooperatives to deal with the production of alcoholic beverages. I note that I come from Rasin County, where a large number of households are currently engaged, because this is the fruit area, the production of alcoholic beverages, and in this way remain in the inability to produce and sell alcoholic beverages, which for many households was also the basic source of income. In the principle debate, I also had a controversy with the minister, who said no one was stopping them. However, it is said in Article 4: "The provisions of this law do not apply to the brandy that a natural person produces for his own purposes." Article 46 of the criminal provisions states: "A natural person is punished for a violation of between 5,000 and 30,000 dinars, if he deals with production that is not for his own purposes". So we have the concept of entrepreneurs and legal faces here. So, in order for a natural person to be involved in the production, the way you've come up with the law, he can only be involved if he registers a store or a company, be an entrepreneur, or have his own factory, be a legal person that works for production. By association, we create the possibility for natural persons to, by association through operations and cooperatives, deal with the production of alcoholic beverages, which for many households in the Rasin County is the basic and only source of income.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20534	The 10th amendment was submitted by MP Ljubomir Kragovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 10th Amendment was submitted by MP Radica Jocic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The government and the Committee on Agriculture have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Alexander Martinovic submitted to the 16th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 18 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Olena Papuga. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 26 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Sladjan Mijaljevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 37 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Alexander Jerkov. The government and the Committee on Agriculture have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The 38th Amendment was filed by Ambassador Olena Papuga. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 44th Amendment was submitted by MP Milutin Jelic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Mr. Jelicic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20535	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, I have sent an amendment to Article 44(1) – I believe that the fines planned from 300,000 to 3 million are large and should be reduced by natural persons to 100,000, and for legal persons to a million dinars. Since we in Serbia 90% of our companies and businesses are mostly small and medium-sized, I think these are too many penalties, because this way of punishment in our conditions we will totally shut down and endanger these small businesses. I would suggest that these criminal provisions for small businesses up to 30 workers be from a million dinars for legal persons, and for natural persons, 100,000, for medium-sized enterprises could go from 200 thousand to two million for legal persons, and for large businesses over 100 employees could remain these fines from 300 thousand to three million.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20536	National MP Marko Milenkovic submitted to the 44th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 44 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vlad Milojkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 46th Amendment was submitted by MP Milutin Jelic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 47th amendment was submitted by MP Mico Rogovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Milos Radulović and Miroslav Petkovic submitted together to Article 47 of the amendment. The word is Milos Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20537	In the transitional and final provisions of the producers who produce brandy and other alcoholic beverages in the same premises may continue to produce this production by 2020, by the date of entry into force of this law. We have explained that this is precisely why the EU leaves the possibility for members to comply with their legislation no later than five years from their entry into full membership. We have a government that has also established the assembly majority precisely on false promises made to Serbian citizens, which was European integration, that the country's president, Mr. Boris Tadic, himself, said we were never further from the EU. The government they created, alongside political parties, has many tycoons, import lobbys and ambassadors from foreign countries. The government that made false promises has deceived the citizens and won their trust that they would have the right to a million shares. That's not gonna happen. A government that has promised 200,000 jobs, a government that has promised visa relief and a white Schengen list, and it is best for citizens to feel on their skin and know what conditions they now live in. Mr. Minister, at the session of this assembly on May 15th, on Friday, I presented the position of the DSS parliamentary group on the condition of anti-urban protection, and I said then that no missile was purchased to protect many of our fields. You said there were 5,000 missiles in here. You were denied by the national RTS log on Sunday, May 17th, where people from the profession, people from HMZ, then servers at many anti-urban stations said what the situation was. At that point, none of the anti-urban missiles were purchased. Secondly, you said it was optimal somewhere between five and seven anti-urban missiles in one place, one anti-urban station. However, it is precisely those who do so and whose job it is is that a minimum is needed for one anti-urban station of 12 missiles. If you have 1,806 anti-urban stations and if there is an optimal number of 12 missiles per one anti-urban station, then you realize that this procurement procedure that you entered is also a small amount of 5,000 anti-urban missiles, given the supplies we have. Croatia itself, which has four times less territory under arable areas, has entered the procedure, or acquired six thousand rekats. What is tragic in the whole situation, we have already been on several occasions due to these climate disasters and changes in certain areas of Serbia greater damage than natural disasters and the city, and something that is worrying, which is obviously the state that in our country is also the state of water supply, i.e. the coverage of a field with irrigation systems very badly, because we have it in the tracks, but the small surfaces are covered by irrigation systems. That you said it depends on the climate conditions that the yields will be in agriculture. I note that we are a country that has been assessed by all relevant factors, how economists and professional people, exactly the country that needs to see its perspective in food production, but as you have conjecture it remains for our farmer, our worthy peasant only to look at the sky and pray that it will rain and, if it does, not be with the city.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20538	Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20539	I'd like to speak to the honourable gentleman. As you know, the Republic Hydrometeorological Institute is not in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Agriculture, nor in any way is it in the budget of the Ministry of Agriculture. The data we're getting is exclusively from the responsible persons from the Republic Hydrometeorological Institute, and I've just received information that 4,985 rockets were purchased this year. So I really don't know who you got the information from, because I just got this information from the director. If that information isn't correct, then I'm providing incorrect information. I am not in charge of this subject, but I can get information and cooperate well with Mr. Milvana Tasic, who is the director of the Hydrometeorological Institute. What's our intensity, is that in the next few years, we're moving from fact-finding rockets to silver light from the plane, and we're doing it together with the Ministry of the Army, and that's some transition period. During that time, we will also try to get trained persons from the military into the building stations, that is to say, longer soldiers, not natural persons, and in such a way, we will reduce unnecessary cracks, or inextricably handling the anti-urban stations.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20540	You'll have to reapply. Just tell me, under this amendment I can give you my word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20541	Mr. Minister, you were denied by experts in the National Log on Sunday 17. Secondly, this is the data I have from the hydrometeorological institute. By Friday, 15th, no missile was purchased. Speaking of which, you say you're going into a new security system, just that the servers on those anti-urban stations are members of an army that will go through one training. Do you know that these people who are now engaged in anti-urban protection, these are people who have been engaged for 10-15 years, and they're already professional people, and they're doing it with small amounts of compensation, about 4,000 dinars, plus they're being touched by local self-government. Do you think a member of the army from the garrison, by the time an army member gets to where the anti-urban station is, will pass 30 minutes, then he has to be on duty, he has to sleep there. What are those costs? That's huge costs.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20542	Since we have completed the examination of the Bill's proposal in particular, does the Proposer's representative, Mr. Minister, want a word? No, I don't. ) I conclude the search of the draft laws on brandy and other alcoholic beverages in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 11th point of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF THE ETANOL (specificities) You have received amendments submitted by MPs: Olena Papuga, Dobrislav Prelić, Radiša Ilic, Sreto Perić, Dragan Stevanović, Vjerica Radeta, Lidija Dimitrijevic, Milorad Buha, Milan Avramović, Srboljub Zivanovic, Milorad Krstin and Milutin Jelic. You have received reports from the Committee on Agriculture, the Legislative Committee and the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 2nd Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Krstin. Does anyone want a word? Mr. Christin, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20543	Mr. Minister, we have a very important law in front of us, given that it is an integral part of the previous two wine, brandy and alcoholic beverages laws. In Article 2, Article 2 reads this – ethanol must meet the prescribed quality standards and conditions regarding packaging, declarations set out in this law and regulations governing its quality. Instead of words - prescribed, I put the word - legal. If I read this, it is legally better than what is proposed – ethanol must meet the legal standards of quality, not prescribed. I think the law of the law is stronger. I think I'm clear here. Secondly, when it comes to ethanol, production and control of ethanol, the Republic of Serbia is given a greater opportunity to participate in the production of energy, medical, pharmaceutical and cosmetic industries, precisely because of the high quality of ethanol, it is used to produce perfume, if you didn't know, Members of the People's Parliament. So ethanol isn't just that grouter, but ethanol is something that has to have safe control, something that has to have some strength. I'm afraid that if this law is not completed, there will be some gaps. We'll have another column in the newspaper where they'll write – from ethanol inserted into the brandy, God forbid, so many people died. Therefore, this is one serious thing, given that we have a large production of alcohol, and that there are nine producers who are interested in this production, Mr. Minister, and I think you should accept this amendment, instead of the words - prescribed, to stand the word - legal.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20544	On Article 3rd amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Dobrislav Prelic. Does anyone want a word? Mr. Flea, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20545	I have submitted an amendment to Article 3 – the manufacturer and the importer of ethanol cannot deal with the production of wine, grape and wine products, fruit brandy and other brandy products, so that instead of words – the brandy products are words – alcoholic products. I think it's more cellular and that, Mr. Minister, you could have accepted this amendment. Within these two minutes, Mr. Minister, I just wanted to let you know for a short while that the National Assembly is being closely monitored during these two days, primarily by agricultural producers, and I am telling you because in the SRS parliamentary group, from your address to Srboljub Zivanovic that premiums for tunu junad and all subsidies were paid at the end of 2008, a large number of calls have arrived where our agricultural producers who brought forward the junada claim that they were not paid premiums for that June. So I also said yesterday that the heifers premiums were not paid for the third and fourth quarter, so I would like to use this opportunity to ask you to find a compromise on short-term loans for those people, to allow them to get the part they need from the state to beat up with the difference they need to pay, and I am sure that they will be able to pay that difference and that they can further apply to the agriculture ministry for short-term loans and other subsidies.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20546	The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Milutin Jelic. Does anyone want a word? Mr. Jelice, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20547	Mr President, the Honorable Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have tabled an amendment to the proposal for a law on ethanol. In Article 6 following Article 2, a new position is added – the process of production can also be managed by a graduate engineer of agriculture in general and other directions that have at least five years of working experience in that area or production. The explanation is brief. Since the new agronomists involved in this production, I believe they can perform and change the role with their signature of a graduate technologist who must know a lot more than graduate technologists who have completed graduate technologists at various our universities. I think this amendment should be accepted by the Minister of Agriculture or the Resort Ministry.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20548	The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Srboljub Zivanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20549	On behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 7. The proposal for a law on ethanol, with a proposal to replace the Minister with the word "Secret" in Article 7 paragraph 3. Article 7 essentially refers to the issuing of a solution to the manufacturer so that ethanol can be produced, with the proposer predicting that this solution is issued by the minister, and the SRS considers that this solution should be issued by the Ministry. ethanol production is a very serious process, given that some things have happened in the past regarding ethanol and ethanol-like products. We all remember the so-called case well. "callers" when it was found that because of artificially made rakia, in fact alcohol poisoned and died about 40 people, in fact the real number will never be found out. I believe the unconscious merchants are doing it today and are jeopardising the lives and health of Serbian citizens. To issue a solution to the ethanol producer is a very serious matter and, if the slightest failure to ignore the criteria for obtaining a solution, someone should be held accountable. Etanol is extremely profitable and should be subject to strict control of the inspection and ministry as such. As far as the proposed amendment is concerned, I think it is more appropriate that the ministry, rather than the minister, issue this solution, because the ministry has as a continuity that would in this case prove to be positive.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20550	The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Olena Papuga. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 10th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic, who wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20551	My amendment is in the spirit of an amendment explained by my colleague Dragisa Ilic, who is analogous to the amendment I was defending earlier, but it seems to me that the minister did not listen, had some conversations or obligations. Through that amendment I, explaining it, have shown that we are absolutely aware that in some places in the Ministry, that is, the laws should say that you have to sign certain acts and should, to be bound by some domestic and international rules and obligations, but there are really provisions in the laws in which you can instead – the minister put – the Ministry. We have foreseen this in Article 10, where the minister is mentioned, that is, we have suggested in point 3 that the Ministry prescribes quality conditions must meet ethanol. We don't think that would bring down the concept of the law. Mr. Minister, I'm going to repeat something I mentioned earlier, you just went through the analysis of these members in an explanation, analysing Article 10, also put on the Ministry. It says here that ethanol, before declaring and placing on the market, is subject to a mandatory quality test, and an examination of the quality of raw materials and ethanol is carried out by an accredited laboratory authorised by the Ministry. This category of the Ministry is implemented through a full explanation of the text of the law. You didn't leave the impression of a man who wasn't interested in these laws and you wouldn't say that this was a technical, spelling, and I don't know what kind of mistake, a printing mistake. It's very tendingly written in the explanation that it's the ministry. By leading, among other things, we believe that you can accept amendments relating to Article 10, so we suggest the same thing.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20552	Member of the 10th Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20553	As an experienced lawyer and member of the SRS, who always and truly advocates legality and constitutionality, I insist on the application of Article 136(2). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia when it drafts laws that come to this parliament. This remark of mine might be a better place if it were sent to the Republic Secretariat for legislation, because it is simply amazing that, in addition to that secretariat, unconstitutional provisions of a bill can come before the MPs. We know that you generally prescribe or mistranslate these laws, but it does not release you from the obligation to and from what you prescribe and get from somewhere you have to comply with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Imagine the situation referred to in Article 10(5), which I have intervened with the amendment this time, and it says that the minister prescribes conditions that must be met by an accredited laboratory with regard to technical equipment and professional training, which refers to control of the quality of ethanol. Since the minister is a political function, it is theoretically complete that the minister may be a professor of history. Imagine that a professor of history as a minister prescribes conditions for accredited laboratories in terms of technical equipment and professional skills when it comes to quality control of ethanol. I guess at least that should reach your consciousness to realize that our amendments are primarily legal technical.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20554	The 10th Amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Member of the 10th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 17 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Olena Papuga. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 17 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milan Avramovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed the examination of the draft law in particular, does the representative of the proposing Dr Saša Dragin, Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management want the final word? No, I don't. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 12th point of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Public Constipations FOR POLYOPRIVOUS PRODUCTS (specificities) You have received amendments submitted at the proposal of the Law by the MPs: Dobrislav Prelić, Dragan Stevanović, Vjerica Radet, Aleksandar Martinović, Milorad Buha, Vesna Marić, Zoran Popović, Srboljub Žujanović, Filip Stojanović, Goran Mihajlović, Mirko Munjić, Nikola Žutić, Aleksandar Pejčić, Milos Radulović, Natasa Jovanovic, Tomislav Ljubenović, Milan Škrbić, Dragan Živkov, Sulejman Spaho, Vladan Jeremic, Bojan Mladenov, Boris Aleksalović, Gordana Pavanovic-Milovljević, Dušan Marić, Dusan Šarić, Dušanka Žalić, Milan Žalić, Milić, Milić, Milić, Milić, Mirdić. You have received reports from the Committee on Agriculture and the Legislative Committee, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Dobrislav Prelic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, Mr. Flea.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20555	I submitted an amendment to Article 19, where I suggested that the words "as well as the establishment of the Compensation Fund" be deleted. Mr. Minister, the SRS is against all additional agencies, committees, etc., and here we now see that the establishment of this compensation fund is proposed. The fact is, when you came to power on October 5th, you found about 8,000 workers in the state administration, and today we have 28,000, according to all the facts that point to what the public knows. We think it is absolutely unnecessary to set up this compensation fund and expand the state apparatus, which would also be a burden for our citizens. I'm sure you agree with me in principle. I think that one officer in your cabinet could do that job, no bigger problems, end it, so I ask you to think about it, so that later in these other members, if you would accept this amendment, you would simply pass this law faster, which is also in your interest. I note once again that there is absolutely no purpose and need to set up this compensation fund and that a good officer, who is trained, can carry out the work and adequately monitor everything responsible and, without any problems, finish the job.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20556	Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Rade. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20557	Article 4 The proposal for a law on public storage for agricultural products speaks about the conditions relating to authorisations for the operation of a public warehouse. Article 4(1) states that the storage of agricultural products in a public warehouse, in accordance with this law, can be handled by a legal person registered in the register of economic operators and registered in the register of public warehouses which he manages, this time it is well written, the Ministry responsible for agricultural affairs, but the amendment that I submitted to on behalf of the SRS, or our parliamentary groups, states that this storage can deal with a legal person registered in the register. It is not acceptable to explain the Government of the Republic of Serbia which says that the amendment is not accepted for reasons that the special regulation has been regulated to register economic operators in the register of economic operators, with the Agency for Economic Operators, and not to register. We insist that, as you might have noticed, most of these amendments to this farm-related set of laws are nomotechnical and legal-technical, and it is obvious to you that our intention is to really improve the text of the law, not to get into a situation that in a few months we have to spend time here again, doing changes and supplementing these laws. And besides, the story of the agencies is the best example of it, but I'm going to do it under some other amendment, not to waste my time with my fellow Christian.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20558	The amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Maric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Popovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Srboljub Zivanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Member of the 10th Amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by MP Goran Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 16 of the amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. Rules of Procedure, the Committee on Agriculture has submitted to Article 19 of the amendment. Since the representative of the proposer accepted the amendment at the meeting of the Committee on Agriculture, the Legislative Committee considers it legal, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Member of the 19th amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Žutic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Aleksandar Pejčić and Milos Radulovic submitted together to Article 20 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 21 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Natasa Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandar Pejcic and Milos Radulovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Tomislav Ljubenović submitted to Article 39 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 40 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Škrbić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Member of the 43rd Amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Zivkov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 44th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Suleiman Spaho. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 45 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 46th amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Mladenovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 47th amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 48 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Paunović-Milosavljevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 49 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Does Mr. Maric want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 50 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dušanka Plecevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 51 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milan M. Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 52 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Veselinović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Lidija Dimitrijevic submitted to Article 53 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 54 of the amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Vukicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 54 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miroslav Markicevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Markicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20559	Dear Presidents, Mr. Minister, respected citizens of Serbia, on behalf of the NS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to the proposal for a law on public storage for agricultural products, and to Article 54(1), and according to us from New Serbia, that position should read: "The Director of the Compensation Fund is elected through a public competition". The explanation - this solution, we believe from the NS, is in line with the government's declared view that important positions in the state administration are chosen publicly, therefore, in public competitions, which means that these places can be made available to all interested citizens, not just party people. In the context of the Government, or Mr. Minister, why this amendment has been rejected, the amendment is not accepted for the reason that it is proposed to appoint a person who is professional in this area and who is responsible for his work not only for the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, but also for the Government. Implicately, it can be concluded, Serbian citizens, that through a public competition, it is not important whether the director of the compensation fund, but for any public function, a public competition cannot be chosen by an expert who will suit the minister or government. This is a message to the citizens of Serbia and young educated professional staff, and among us, who we are party people, I know it well, this means - will be the director of DS, Mr. Minister. I'd like you to comment on this and answer my question.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20560	National MP Branimir Djokic submitted to the 55th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Parliamentarian Milan Avramovic submitted to Article 56 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 57th Amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Vukovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 58 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Jadranko Vukovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure, which were submitted to the 59th Amendment by the Committee on Agriculture. Since the representative of the proposer accepted the amendment at the meeting of the Committee on Agriculture, the Legislative Committee considers it legal, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The 59th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. Does he want a word, Mrs. Pop-Lazic? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed the examination of the draft law in particular, does the representative of the proposing Dr Saša Dragin, Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management want the final word? No, I don't. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 13th point of the agenda – Proposal for the Law by the National MPs Milan Avramović, Dragan Aćimović, Boris Alekić, Ognjen Mihajlović, Milorad Buha, Elena Bozan-Taljan, Dragan Stevanovic, Milan Dimitrijić and Miloš Radulović, Lidija Vukić, Jadranka Vuković, Slobodan Vuković, Radiša Ilić, Vladjan Jeremic, Lidijan Jovnić, Momcilo Duvnjak, Branimir Đalić, Živanović, Drago Živić, Radan Žuć, Radiša Ilić, Vladjan Jeremic, Nataša Jožić, Radica Jocić, Radić, Branimir Kražanović, Živić, Živić Živić, Miran Žuković, Radan Živić Žitić, Radan Žitić, Radan Žitić, Radan Žitić, Radan Žitić, Radić, Radaljić, Radić, Radić, Radan Žvić, Radjan Žvić, Radić, Radić, Radić, Radjan Žvić, Radić, Radić, Radić, Žvić, Radić, Radić, Radić, Radić, Radić, Radić, Radić, Radić, Radić, Radić, Zažić, Zažić, Zaž. You have received a report from the Committee on Agriculture and the Legislative Committee, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principled search, Article 142, paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. On behalf of the head above Article 1 of the amendment, MP Milan Avramovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Acimovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Committee on Agriculture has submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Given that an amendment has been adopted at the meeting of the Committee on Agriculture, the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible, I find that it has become an integral part of the draft law. The first amendment was submitted by Ognjen Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Article 2 of the amendment was tabled by the peoples of the Parliament of Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Committee on Agriculture has submitted to the title above Articles 2 and 2 of the amendment. Given that an amendment has been adopted at the meeting of the Committee on Agriculture, the Legislative Committee considers it legal, I also find that it has become an integral part of the bill. To the title above Article 2 of the amendment was tabled by the peoples of the MP Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The peoples of Elena Bozic-Talian and Dragan Stevanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment in the same text. Does Mr. Stevanović want a word? No, I don't. ) The peoples of the Parliaments Milan Dimitrijevic and Milos Radulovic submitted together to Article 2 of the amendment. Mr. Milan Dimitrijevic wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20561	Madam President, Mr Minister, we have submitted to Article 2 an amendment to introduce a new position, to agree on the introduction, use and transport of a genetically modified organism to obtain consent and the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. In the light of this law, we are aware of the facts, and so do professional journals, and scientific workers, and literature, that we do not yet have enough data on what all one genetically modified organism can do in some future time. We felt that the responsibility of the Minister of Agriculture and the Ministry was too great at this time to take that care of themselves, that is, the decision to take over, and that such important topics and a significant decision should be agreed upon by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20562	Mr. Secretary has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20563	I'd like to say I couldn't agree more with you. Not only is it a great responsibility for anyone to allow the transport of genetically modified organisms. In my opinion, no one should be allowed to traffic genetically modified organisms. For this reason, we have improved this law on the Committee on Agriculture in such a way that we have banned the placing on the market of any genetically modified organisms. So neither the Assembly, nor the Government, nor the Minister, nor anyone in this country from now on, will be able to license the transport of genetically modified organisms, can exclusively be used for learned purposes, in scientific institutions and in no other way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20564	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The Committee on Agriculture has tabled an amendment proposing that a new Article 2a be added after Article 2. Given that an amendment has been adopted at the meeting of the Committee on Agriculture, the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible, I find that it has become an integral part of the draft law. On the title above Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Vukicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Jadranko Vukovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Vuković. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Committee on Agriculture has submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Given that an amendment has been adopted at the meeting of the Committee on Agriculture, and the Legislative Committee considers it legal, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Milan Veselinović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Lidija Dimitrijevic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Momcilo Duvnjak. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branimir Djokic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Srboljub Zivanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Dragan Zivkov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Žutić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Just please sign in. Here you go, Mr. Ilich.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20565	On behalf of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 3. Proposal for a law on genetically modified organisms. The SRS is absolutely against this law, which provides for the use of genetically modified organisms. In particular, Article 3(1)(11) is an authorised laboratory that conducts an examination of a genetically modified organism and of a product of genetically modified organism, for which I propose erasure. The introduction of genetically modified organisms endangers, above all, the ecosystem, and thus endangers the entire plant and animal world, as we also threaten our own survival. Here, first of all, it's about someone's need to play with nature and its legality just to profit from their scientific work being well commercialized. What, say, if there is an uncontrollable release of genetically modified organisms into the environment. It can pose a direct danger, but also indirect to the lives of humans and animals. The environment would also be threatened, why is all this necessary to Serbia in the first place, and what will Serbia get by knowingly entering this risk? The damage can also be of greater benefit, and the consequences will likely be long-term. Our lives and our environment should depend in this case on the attention or carelessness of a laboratory worker, which is mentioned in point 11) and which conducts tests of genetically modified organisms.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20566	Zeljko Brestovsky answered. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20567	Dear Prime Ministers, I would only like to tell you when the law on genetically modified organisms is on the agenda that it is on the insistence of Minister Dragin and members of the Committee proposed an amendment to this law, to Article 2, which says: "No modified living organism, as well as a product of a genetically modified organism cannot be placed on the market or be kept for commercial purposes in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. '"It is explicitly said that there is no commercialization of any genetically modified products at all. Anything else can only be used for research purposes. This amendment proposed by the Committee on Agriculture and adopted by the Ministry, as well as by the Republic Government, from which all other provisions arise, when it comes to the transport and production of GMO products, has been made clear.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20568	Members of the 3rd amendment were submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I'm sorry, Mr. Radisa Ilic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20569	All right, if it's unnon-communicated, the question is, what if there's an uncontrollable release of genetically modified organisms, where it's being investigated, in a lab, in the environment? Who's going to be responsible for something like that? The consequences can be catastrophic. Only even if it's about research. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20570	The rules of work in scientific research institutions are very strict. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Natasa Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radica Jocic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljubomir Kragovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Would you like a word, Mr. Krassic? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20571	Is that okay? Okay. So this Micun system is working. If you knew how much money was used for this. Just to remind you, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, I have not yet received an answer, seven months, how much money has been spent since I see now that they have become all fans of this building, those who burned it a few years ago? Anyway, let's get back to this bill. I'm going to use some of the time that the SRS belongs to. The impression here is that some MPs, who make up power, think of this law as being on the agenda of ninja turtles, mutants. Well, just to remind you, once G17 had a very high member, some Sasa Vitosevic or Vitorovic, as they were called, until 2000 he held a pesticide shop, so he got hooked on fungicides and pesticides and by some mistake he was elected Minister of Agriculture, thanks to you from G17, because you... (President: Mr Krasic, take care of the dignity of the Assembly and qualifications related to individual personalities. ) Of course not, Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic, do not worry, I take care of the Parliament's dignity. I'm an advocate to all responders who have burned this congregation. You know? All attributes of the rule of law are also obtained so that those who have committed a crime must respond. Now, let's go back, it's not about ninja turtles, it's not about mutants. It's about the imports of those soybeans, you know the genetically modified ones themselves, and you didn't understand Mr. Radisha Ilic. He's a nice man who explained it. What's it worth that you wrote, when in practice nothing is applied? Now we've got a part-tactics cabbage I'm looking at, I'm pulling meat out. One story, the other one works, third thoughts. That's what our democracy has given us. My amendment refers to the point of the 17th of this article, where some definition of what handling is. Now I'm not going to go into these details, since I've suggested erasing, but I'd just draw your attention, you're giving a new term in every law. The term differs from law to law, so those same terms that are used in five laws, each one gets some other meaning. You're making a new grammar of the Serbian language, so you're giving some new synonyms, in a descriptive form. Just to remind you, they're not on the agenda of "nenja turtles", nor mutants, but genetically modified organisms, and we've already been the victim of one such adventure of a minister. Just to remind you, Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic, and you were an MP in the federal parliament, when it was interesting in 2001, when they challenged that it was not done, that there were no imports, and then a few years later it was admitted that it was imports, and then there was a ban. Now you're trying to bring that ban down to something called, like some kind of control. That control has nothing to do with it. I've had so much to tell you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20572	The People's MP, Milorad Krstin, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Would you like a word, Mr. Christin? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20573	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, you did rewrite this law, the law on genetically modified organisms. Since it was then about respect for the Rules of Procedure, when it comes to the principle and wants to be set up by amendments, then it can only be done between principle and detail by the Committee on Agriculture. You did it, it's obvious, but Mr. Minister here stands well, in Article 3 of point 18, which was accepted by the Committee on Agriculture, says to be deleted. That amendment was submitted by me. Article 20 is deleted. In Article 20, Vesna Maric submitted. We have an article 3 here, so Article 12, 13 and 15 are deleted, same as the SRS's ambassadors. You could have done it right away, without the need for the intervention of the Committee on Agriculture. What you did with the Committee on Agriculture, it's undeniable. The Rules of Procedure, in principle we have passed, can no longer bear any of us, because, according to the Rules of Procedure, between principles and details, only the Committee can. It's okay.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20574	National MP Tomislav Ljubenovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Maric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Mr. Maric, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20575	I have submitted an amendment proposing to delete point 21) of Article 3 of this proposal, because the SRS believes that any use of genetically codified organisms should not be allowed in the Republic of Serbia. In defense of this attitude, I'll quote the section in the book "The Seed of Deception" by Jeffrey Smith. ''If you offer cows, pigs, squirrels, salmon, and even rats first genetically modified, and then natural plants, animals will always choose natural, even if they are on the verge of hunger. Bill Lashmett watched two or three cows enter the feeding room. The first mangers contained 25 kilograms of modified corn. The cows insulated him and approached the other mangers with 25 kilos of natural corn they ate. The same case happened again with another group of cows. ''The same experiment in 1998/1999. It was repeated on six farms in northwestern Iowa. Identical studies with pigs showed the same results for two years in a row. According to the rat trial, Washington Post says the rodents refused to eat, otherwise they prefer tomatoes. Namely, the genetically modified species that scientists wanted to question them did not accept voluntarily. When they were fed violently, some animals received stomach lesions, and seven out of 40 died within two weeks. Croatian translation. Tomatoes are approved, farmers who offered natural and genetically modified corn in the winter months to wild squirrels, salmon, deer, raccoons and mice have found an undisputed fact. A bunch of genetically modified food hasn't even been touched.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20576	The title above Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. Does anyone want a word? Mr. Momir Markovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20577	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will return you and the citizens of Serbia in 2001, when you're after them, you've won power, so when your friends, the American government, twice a 50,000 tons of soybeans, delivers you as humanitarian aid and the soybeans go to Surcin, to the Krmivoproduct, at Dragoljub Markovic's. It would have been all right if it hadn't been determined later that it was modified soybeans, which Cromivo converted into cattle food and classified on the market. First, he was not given to peasants who fed cattle, but turned into cattle and sold to peasants. To remind you, at the time a certain Ivana Dulic-Markovic was a minister, she was the same Ivana Dulic-Markovic, who once a month left Zagreb, and from Zagreb's airport in America at the company "Monsanto" for her monthly appointment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20578	The title above Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Sladjan Mijaljevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Article 5, the amendment was submitted by MP Marko Milenkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vlad Milojkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment, together with the correction of the reasoning, the MPs Milan Dimitrijevic and Milos Radulovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? Mr. Dimitrijevic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20579	Mr. Minister, this is just one technical matter. I propose that the term "minister" be introduced instead of "minister responsible for agricultural affairs" as a broader term. In the spirit and the preceding amendment, that an individual should be relieved of some kind of responsibility, the more eyes he sees, the more ears he hears better. So it's not necessary for the minister to decide everything and everything. When it came to previous amendments and the entry of genetically modified soybeans into our country, we see the meaning of that amendment to Article 2 that I have submitted. It is precisely for these reasons that an individual, whether at that time a federal minister of agriculture, who imports genetically modified soybean, whether it is a republican agriculture minister who receives a genetically modified soybean donation. Then as a state, we have a great deal of trouble rooting this genetically modified strain out of our space. Remember the persistent struggle in the Sword for two years. That was the purpose of that amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20580	National MP Dejan Mirovic submitted the title above article 6 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Mr. Secretary wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20581	What I can say is that the Ministry of Agriculture has carried out extensive control of crops that have been genetically modified over the past year, we will carry out similar controls this year. What is also very important to mention is that we have banned imports of any genetically modified products and in this way we intend to continue to run politics, and that is very important. What's also important is that last year we found about 70 plots that were genetically modified and we ordered farmers to either self-explicate those parcels or to do so by the state on their expense. And what happened before this administration really couldn't comment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20582	Mr. Dimitrijevic wants a word after the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20583	I'm sorry, I believe Mr. Secretary's argument is fine, but I would simply ask the minister to come a little closer to the microphone next time, I haven't heard five words from this particular explanation.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20584	The 6th Amendment was submitted by the Committee on Agriculture. Given that an amendment has been adopted at the meeting of the Committee on Agriculture, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Parliamentarian Goran Mihajlovic submitted to the 6th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Ognjen Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Mladenovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Pai Momchilov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milan M. Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Popovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Paunović-Milosavljevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dušanka Plecevic. Does anyone want a word? Mrs. Plecevic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20585	I have submitted an amendment to Article 7 which reads - is deleted. This article refers to part of the proposed law on the placing on the market, i.e. cultivation for commercial purposes of the modified living organism, where the expert advice decides and where a member of that council cannot be in conflict of interest. We in the SRS feel that not only should we delete this member, but all members, as well as the law in general, because no genetically modified organisms should be allowed and no dealings with it. So far, experience with growing and placing genetically modified organisms and their products into human and animal nutrition in the world has been defeated. Genetic engineering has been shown to monitor an entire series of unexpected side effects. For example, adding only one gene causes hundreds of thousands of DNA mutations, and 5% of genes immediately alters their level of expression, then some genes can completely shut down and turn on etc. One Japanese corporation produced genetically modified bacteria, used for the more economic production of L-tryptophan, food-added assets. This-this-produced supplement caused a major epidemic in the 1980s, when 5,000 to 10,000 people got sick and about 100 died. The disease was unknown, it appeared abruptly, it was serious, and it came from a single source, which is the features of the epidemic. Between 1994 and 2001, the world doubled the number of food-related diseases, primarily the use of genetically modified soybeans, corn, rapes and vegetables. Even the standard soybean, unmodified, has great affinity to aluminum and manganese, which pulls it out of the soil on which it grows and stores it in grains, where it has 80 times as much as in other plants. I'll proceed to the second amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20586	On behalf of the head above article 8th, MP Vitomir Plužarevic submitted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Mr. Plužarević, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20587	Ladies and gentlemen, we believe that this law should not appear in this form, size, at this very time. Completely our sciences in the fields of forestry, agriculture, technology and transport of goods, veterinary, medicine and all the disciplines learned from the beginning have been trained, trained, tested for human health, plants and animals. You must never treat this area even with this law. We know that you, gentlemen of the Ministry, have all learned in your school days that genetically modified organisms are a harmful ecosystem. We ask you to respect the ethical code of profession and sciences relating to this area and withdraw this law. You've seen the kind of genotype humans create genetically modified organisms. You gentlemen of the government, it is up to you to remove this law from the agenda, or the minister to withdraw it. By doing so, you will contribute to making sure that our children, future people, are safe. Isn't it enough for you that the Americans have brought us the worst plant, animal, fungal and other insects that the whole world is struggling with, and we are. I don't want to mention about ambrosia, which shouldn't fall into genetically modified ones, but it's the same species that was inserted into our ecosystem. Pull this bill. If you pull it back, you will contribute to future generations remembering that you have withdrawn, or that you have saved many, many young people who will be in the scientific sphere tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20588	The National MP Gordana Pop-Lazic submitted the title above Article 8 of the amendment. Here you go, Mrs. Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20589	Mr. Minister, our impression is based on your behaviour and acceptance of the amendments submitted by the Agriculture Committee that someone has planted this law on you. So, your associates are obviously working on someone's instructions, and it's unofficially known that in every ministry there is someone from abroad, from the EU, the NATO Pact, I don't know but from which institution, of course, trying to get through our legal regulatory process something that would be in their interest. You were mildly surprised when you saw the traffic of such genetically modified organisms being predicted and you were in favour of eradicating it from the law, which is why the Committee also reacted, but we are also against granting authorisation for use in closed systems, for deliberately introducing it into the environment, i.e. for the transport of genetically modified organisms and products from genetically modified organisms. So, I'm no expert on that, I'm not a general practitioner, but you have experts around you who might tell you, and you probably know a lot about what this is and why we need this. Is it possible to get out of the lab and do some damage, and we don't know what's ruining our nation's health? We know that our nation's poor health, that we are the most sickest nation in Europe and in countries in particular. What broke us all and what hit us all, so all we need to do is take care of these laws in such a way that both through food or through the unconscious work of individual experts, and sometimes by the same chance, something takes control that can destroy our health. Here, and this Mexican flu that threatens, they say, and Serbia. No matter what, we don't cancel the Exodus, we don't cancel the Guch, we don't cancel anything, anything is possible with us, no matter how much danger threatens the nation's health. It's like they'd put us on a pillar of shame if it wasn't for Exits. So, there is one irresponsibility among those who see that in every way they raise up whether someone on the side or on the side, I do not know who, instead of taking responsibility, that is, you take responsibility for yourself, because you will either be guilty or celebrate yourself in some way if you take care of what laws you propose to the congregation.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20590	The Committee on Agriculture has submitted to Article 8 of the amendment. At the meeting of the Committee on Agriculture, the proposing representative accepted the amendment, the legislator believes that the amendment is legally possible, so I find that it has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. National MP Dobrislav Prelic submitted the title above Article 9 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Mr. Flea, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20591	Mr. Minister, in your presentation, you said that the administration that was before you was carrying some responsibility, and I practically understood that you had nothing to do with it. You said it was destroyed around 70, if I'm not mistaken, a plot of modified soybeans. The fact is, Mr. Minister, I have no doubt that it has not been destroyed, that the modified soybeans currently have much in Serbia. Why, Mr. Minister, does our farmer sow a modified strain? Now I'll tell you, it's probably something you know, and that's three reasons. The first is that it produces up to 1,000 kilograms per hectare and the second is that protection is at least three times cheaper because it is sprayed only per hectare of three to five liters of total, which is a very cheap asset, unlike regular funds. The third reason is that our farmer doesn't have to go on the scale, there's no deductions, and the price is the same. Who buys that modified soybean? People who do bite production. This grizzle is normally used by farmers in the feeding of pigs, cows and, unfortunately, that soy grizz goes through milk. That's the milk that our kids drink. This is what we have to fight against, Mr. Minister, and the biggest reason why such a situation is now in Serbia is precisely your coalition partner, Mrs. Ivana Dulic-Markovic. Someone has to be responsible for that. You said that - that was before. You burned down the congregation, so now you're in it. We won't burn it, we'll change you and we'll be in it to make our citizens feel better.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20592	Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Marina Ragush. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Committee on Agriculture has submitted to Article 9 of the amendment. At the meeting of the Committee on Agriculture, the proposing representative accepted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by the MEP, Ms Radet. Would you like a word, Mrs. Radeta? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20593	The SRS parliamentary group actually passed through these amendments to the proposal for a bill on genetically modified organisms on the SRS' position, which is in the light of all amendments that Serbia should not and should not allow the use of genetically modified organisms. We have proposed to our amendments to delete all the members of the bill, because this is the only business possibility that we can actually make it clear that we do not need such a law, that we do not need such risks in the health and lives of Serbian citizens. You say, Mr. Minister, or the Government of the Republic of Serbia, that the amendment is not accepted for reasons why the reasons why the proposed amendment is not seen. Well, for God's sakes, Mr. Minister, you didn't convince us of the need to adopt the proposed law either. You have heard a number of arguments from the MPs of the SRS and you will hear them by the end of the debate, because we have just proposed a large number of amendments to try to explain some things to you and to warn Serbian citizens of the great danger that threatens citizens from the Government of the Republic of Serbia. In addition to all the troubles that the citizens of Serbia, in which the whole country is located, we still lack genetically modified organisms.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20594	National MP Milovan Radovanovic submitted to the 9th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Suleiman Spaho. Does anyone want a word? Zoran Krasic wants to, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20595	I was wrong, I thought it was my amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20596	Member of the 9th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milan Dimitrijevic and Milos Radulovic. Mr. Dimitrievich, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20597	So, Mr. Minister, on this amendment, I think this is one of the key things in the law. So, we have suggested that for agreement on the introduction of new genetically modified organisms into the ecosystem, we seek the consent of the Ministry of Environment and Spatial Planning, and you have answered in your explanation that there are environmental experts in your ministry – this is not disputed. Simply, did one of your associates read Article 2 and Article 9? Come on, please, take the law and read what it says in your law. Who's going to be more relevant about ecosystem disturbances than the Ministry of Environmental Protection? I really can't understand that. If it's vanity, interference with jurisdiction, but let's just get things back to the past, see if there's any interference of jurisdiction in other things? To go back to the food safety law, is there any interference between the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Agriculture – or does someone not read these amendments at all or understand what the problem is? Take it from the Department of Environmental Protection's jurisdiction, so we can get it out of place and do all the work in the state. I don't see any other reason for not accepting this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20598	There's a word Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20599	Thank you for your suggestions. What I can say is, under the positive European legislation, that there is a need for a vertical hierarchy in law enforcement, so that we cannot introduce a parallel ministry that is not responsible for these matters.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20600	National MP Filip Stojanovic submitted to the 9th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Todorovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marina Toman. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above the 10th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Škrbić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 10th Amendment was submitted by MP Ljubisa Petkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milan Dimitrijevic and Milos Radulovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 10th Amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Acimovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by MP Elena Christmas-Talian. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Vukicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Jadranko Vukovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Vukovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Article 12 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Veselinović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Lidija Dimitrijevic submitted to Article 12 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Momcilo Duvnjak. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branimir Djokic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP, Srboljub Zivanovic, submitted the title above Article 13 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 13 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Dragan Zivkov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 13th of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Žutić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 13th of the amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 13th of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Vladan Jeremic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the title above Article 14 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radica Jocic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Milan Dimitrijevic and Milos Radulovic Do you want a word? Here you go, Mr. Dimitrievich.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20601	So it's on Article 20. Right? The same thing as in Article 5 before, where the word "Minister" is replaced by "Ministership". Same thing I said in Article 5. Let's share the responsibility, not to be responsible on one man, the power of a decision on one man, that more people decide on these things, because he warns – this is a very, very serious law, a law that will develop in the future in who knows which directions, which we can only imagine.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20602	National MP Ljubomir Kragovic submitted to the 14th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miroslav Markicevic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, Mr. Markicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20603	Dear President, Mr Minister, on behalf of New Serbia, I have submitted an amendment to the proposal for a bill on genetically modified organisms, to Article 14 and Article 3. So it's about informing citizens, where the law says -- in a daily newspaper, so a report on a genetically modified organism. I made a proposal to make it – in at least three daily lists. It is explained that the application can contain several hundred pages and that these are high costs for the ministry or the state. I would ask Mr. Minister and Ministry for them to save on other matters, and not to be spared on those things where citizens and the general public, because of the seriousness of this law and because of the incorrect application of this law, there is collateral damage to the citizens – so that they are informed. On the other hand, the ministry, or the minister, could not be honored to favour a particular daily paper. So the minister, since the Director of the Compensation Fund will be chosen secretly, since he has not answered my question, so I have concluded, I know that he will not answer this question either.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20604	The title above Article 15 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Here you go, Mr. Crassy.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20605	If what the Minister said about this law at the beginning of the debate is true, then this should be – the law on scientific and research action, not what it's called. Of course, we all doubt the honesty and accuracy of what is said. If we really want to throw out and ban the use of these genetically modified organisms, then the law should be very simple and simple and possibly have three members – all of this is absolutely unnecessary. You know one thing, the VCR was invented by NASA using it for satellites, so after 10-15 years, they realized it had some commercial purpose. Similarly, if these tests are held – must this ultimately have some useful value and commercial value? Let me remind you of the danger. Mr. Dragin, you know it's dangerous when mosquitoes are sprayed in November or January -- they're modified, they're born. According to that account of yours where they paid big money to spray mosquitoes, how can we trust you? How can we trust you with everything you've said? This should have three members: in the first article to be banned; in the second article to prescribe punishment and to say that it takes effect immediately, and everyone who has so far been responsible for these things - must mutate, slow down, because they have entered into something that is forbidden for people to do. We still don't know what will happen to this big bang, you know, so we don't now question Darwin's theory of evolution.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20606	The Committee on Agriculture has submitted to Article 15 of the amendment. Given that an amendment was adopted at the meeting of the Committee on Agriculture, and the Legislative Committee considers it legal, so that it became an integral part of the draft law. Member of the 15th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Krstin. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20607	Mr Minister, in Article 15(1), I have put in the name of the MP's group to delete item 1. However, your intervention on the Committee on Agriculture has made it public that in Article 15(1), the words "putting on the market, or transport" are deleted. I believe that this amendment of mine has been respected and that what we have asked for has been respected – that genetically modified organisms have no legal basis or legal basis for simply finding themselves in Serbia on the Serbian market.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20608	National MP Tomislav Ljubenovic submitted to the 15th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Maric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Mr. Maric, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20609	I've proposed to delete Article 15's Article 4's position. I'm going to continue the argument I started on the previous amendment, since it's about the same subject. American historian and scientist William Endal in the book, listen to the title of the book "The Seeds of Extermination, Geopoliticals of Changed Food and the Global Empire", claims that it is a global conspiracy aimed at mastering the production of world food, and thus conquering the planet. He responsibly argues that the component of the plan is a drastic reduction in the world's population and argues that it has come to the conclusion that three billion people are planning to be destroyed. It is interesting that a similar opinion, a similar conclusion, is carried out by the president of the Association of Peasants of Mexico Jorge Galeon. He says, "Monsant's goal is "Monsant" is a company, an American chemical giant who is world leader in the production of genetically modified food to control food production around the world. To achieve that, the concert stands for production without peasants. We must fight for our independence, for our fields, our families, our homeland, our children's future. We must be able to produce natural food ourselves. ''Otherwise, in Mexico, the land from which natural corn originates, 'Monsant's genetically manipulated corn, meanwhile, pollutes the original species, destroys complete plantings, while Paraguay turns into a green desert, making the population leave the country. In the end, I'm just going to set an example for India. In India, this company purchased numerous companies there that sold natural cotton seeds and now offers only its expensive genetically manipulated species, and they are often sensitive to various diseases, so bad harvests are very common. This led to a large number of farmers in India reaching suicides at the end of the cotton harvest season.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20610	Member of the 15th amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. Here you go, Mr. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20611	A few years ago, there was a TV show, namely drama, from early socialism in Russia, where one of the Russian scientists is struggling, experimenting all the time and eventually getting a plant called cracks, not pops, – the path to socialism, which is down potatoes, and worse tomatoes. Such a plant monster you ladies and gentlemen of the people have the opportunity to see that this government will bring us into the country. Genetically modified organisms affect the genome of generations that come after that. Do we directly use genetically modified organisms or use them indirectly, through meat, milk, any product of animals that ate genetically modified soybean, genetically modified corn, etc. You're destroying the future of this country, and all because some Western lifers could make the market possible. After all, you opened the market for them and the question is, through all the food products that we import, what we get. Mr. Minister, it is true that a huge amount of genetically modified soybeans was destroyed by farmers, but it is also true that the import lobby imported almost double the amount of genetically modified soybeans and placed it to the livestock producers. Then it's a fact that we peasants punish for sowing genetically modified soybeans, but that's the same soy we get on the side, we get from that Europe that you're flocking to, and it wants to get rid of, in the end, a lot of things, by placing it on our market. That's why I think the amendment should be adopted.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20612	The title above Article 16 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Committee on Agriculture has submitted to Article 16 of the amendment. Given that an amendment has been adopted at the meeting of the Committee on Agriculture, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Member of the 16th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Sladjan Mijaljevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of Parliament Marko Milenkovic submitted to the 16th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 16 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Vlad Milojkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 16 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 16 of the amendment was submitted by MP Goran Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 16 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Ognjen Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 16 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Mladenovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Milan Dimitrijevic and Milos Radulovic. Does anyone want a word? Mr. Dimitrievich, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20613	Madam President, it's not burning again, obviously this doesn't get in the head. So again, the word "minister" is replaced by "minister" because it is better, because the ministry is broader than the minister. Obviously there's no understanding of such things. It's simply unacceptable. So, read seriously the amendments that are being dragged throughout the law, so you'll see the meaning of all the amendments that are written. Do not technicalally explain them, as one of your personal interests, Rules of Procedure or any regulation tells you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20614	The title above Article 17 of the amendment was submitted by MP Pai Momchilov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 17 of the amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) At the title of the head above the 18th Amendment was submitted by MP Milan M. Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Article 18 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Popovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 18 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Paunović - Milosavljevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 18 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 18 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dušanka Plecevic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, Mrs. Plecevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20615	I have already said, in the interpretation of the amendments to Article 7, that even the standard, not modified soybean, contains large quantities of aluminium and manganese and, in the long-term use of such soybean in the organism, there is poisoning in these elements. Due to cytohormon content, these are data from the health service of Switzerland, the amount of oestrogen in 100 g of soy protein is equal to one contraceptive tablet. Monster cases have been recorded in children aged four to five years, with gender characteristics of adults. In addition, soybeans also contain phytohormones that are harmful to human and animal health. It's the same case with famous lecithin, which occurs as a by-product in the soybean processing. It is promoted as an reportedly healthy food supplement, which, in addition, is hot, contains pesticides and harmful solutions, which cause sharp joint pain, a severe form of gout. Instead of destroying it, it ends up on our tables in almost every grocery: milk, cookies, chocolates and all agricultural processing. One of the most harmful genetically modified products is both aspartan, i.e. aspartic acid, which is used as an artificial sweetener of sweets, fruit juices, drinks, sugar-free chewing gums. In 166 studies in the period from 1985 to 1994, this sweetener, more specifically this aspartic acid, was responsible for 75% of all harmful effects of various food supplements and recorded over 90 symptoms of harmful action: headaches, dizziness, nausea, numbness, muscle cramping, loss of consciousness, skin rash, insomnia. Anyone who drinks coke, sprites, boyfriends, all kinds of so-called. Energy drinks in large quantities, he knows that night no sleep. I'll continue later.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20616	Member of the 18th Amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP, Gordana Pop-Lazic, submitted to the title above Article 19 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 19 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dobrislav Prelic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, Mr. Flea.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20617	I have submitted an amendment to Article 19. The member says that "using in closed systems is classified into four levels of risk: 1) use at negligible risk - first degree', which I suggest is deleted. The SRS believes that everything is a risk and that absolutely, you heard from Mr Krasic's discussion, that there were enough two or three members and that it would be enough when something is inapplicable. Mr. Minister, I was just talking about soya for what's wrong. But time doesn't allow, you've been answering us so far, and I don't know if you're tired, so you don't want to, or you don't have answers. What's definitely a problem on the ground, you know that the fact that it has modified soybeans is a lot when we do. There are people who do not sow modified soybean, who take the declared seed, apply all the regular agrotechnical measures and when they come to the scale of the gene examination shows that the soybean has been modified. Why? Because of the 1,000 grains if there's one grain in the van where the modified soybeans are gonna show up. That man, neither guilty nor debtor, has no one to hand over the soy. It's normal to hand it over to the bite manufacturers, because there's no other choice. It's only luck that these honest people, so far I have no idea they've gotten, say, criminal charges for such a thing. Whoever needs to get it is certainly not getting it. I'm asking you what we're going to do specifically, or you from the Ministry, to get in the way of this, because the fact that it takes us 4, 5, 6 years to deal with the modified strain on our market, to root out and get back to the traditional Serbian one, which is the healthiest thing in Europe.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20618	Member of the 19th Amendment was submitted by MP Marina Ragush. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 19 of the amendment was submitted by the MEP, Ms Radet. Do you want a word? Here you go, Mrs. Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20619	I will read Article 19, paragraph 1, which speaks of the classification of the degree of risk. It seems only to me that the text of this Article 19th law will be sufficient for all those who follow the work of this Parliament to understand the extent of the risk and the danger this law poses to genetically modified organisms. This Article 19 says: “The use in closed systems is classified at four levels of risk: 1) use at negligible risk - first degree; 2) use at low risk - second degree; 3) use at significant risk - third degree; 4) use at high risk - fourth degree. “ The question arises, Mr Dragin, what will happen if, God forbid, in the practice of applying this article, this use takes place at a significant risk of a third degree or at a high risk of a fourth degree, if we know, and you have heard from the MPs of the SRS, people who understand professionally and scientifically in this matter, that this negligible or small risk is dangerous enough for the health and life of Serbian citizens. We, Serbian radicals, are extremely concerned about the health of the Serbian population, which is obviously not the case with the government of the Republic of Serbia, not now or these previous mandates. Of course, since he's always been the same health minister, it's no wonder.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20620	National MP Milovan Radovanovic submitted to the 19th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 19th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 19th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Suleiman Spaho. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Todorovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Milan Dimitrijevic and Milos Radulovic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, Mr. Dimitrievich.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20621	Mr. Minister, we felt that this deadline that your Ministry has prescribed for 60 days and for removing the deficits was too short and that it was more appropriate than 90 days. What happens if construction works or colored works are in place? Do you think you can finish this in 60 days? I don't think so. On the other hand, in your explanation, you replied that the deadline was in line with the General Administrative Procedure Act. Now I have a question for you, as a member of the government, do you have any communication with the other ministries? Do you know that in the procedure there is a new draft law on general administrative procedure? What happens if those deadlines change by that new law? What are we gonna do? It may be at the next meeting of the Assembly, in a few days we will have this bill. What are we supposed to do? We're going to change, amend and supplement the laws on genetically modified organisms. So this kind of non-communication leads to inconceivable consequences in the government's work. It's a chance to say some things. So, when one minister says one thing, another minister says the other about the same thing, then the whole state, people and Parliament are confused with the government's behaviour: pre-election promises; free actions of 1,000 euros; 200,000 new jobs; Fiat in Kragujevac; raising pensions. The time has passed because you do not communicate with each other and then we get the answer, and the answer is: today it is very bad in Serbia. Bad. This bad thing in Serbia is the result of this kind of work. Non-communications, non-cooperation and everyone pulling aside. Then when we propose some amendments to the laws to the amendments and where we point out some failures and some mistakes, these amendments are not readable, these amendments are explained in a completely unsuspecting way. That's not how it works. This does not lead either the country or the nation. It's about time we saw here the complete government again and answered these questions I just said.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20622	The National MP Marina Toman submitted to Article 20 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Škrbić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljubisa Petkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Article 21, the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 21 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Acimovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Article 22, the amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 22 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 22 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Elena Christmas-Talian. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Article 23, the amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Vukicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 23 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Jadranko Vukovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MP Slobodan Vukovic submitted to the title above Article 24 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 24 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milan Veselinović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 24 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Jovan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Lidija Dimitrijevic submitted to Article 24 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 24 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Momcilo Duvnjak. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 24 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branimir Djokić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP, Srboljub Zivanovic, submitted the title above Article 25 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, Mr. Zivanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20623	Here I have submitted an amendment to delete the title above article 25, and this is the text "Issuing One Approval". Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing a law whose implementation in the previous period has been classified by some government, and may the government be you, only it was a rotation between ministers. I wonder how and in what way could imports of seed goods of modified soybean or modified any seed goods have occurred? That's actually a question that you should give an adequate answer to. It's like if someone legalized intoxicating drugs, they could be made publicly in Serbia today. You've heard from my colleague, Party Dušanka, who described all the evils, diseases that may arise or certain disorders by using modified soybeans. I'm asking you -- is today a shotgun of modified soy, imported from the United States, or from Latin countries, and how is it used today in the production of livestock food, used in pig nutrition? How and how does control occur? You must know that there is no control, because when you allow seed goods to be found in Serbia and can be used, and those who use it are not punished or strictly not prohibited. What are we talking about today? You say - where we waste and spend time - I tell you a story that can't. It definitely needs to be done to stop, stop or use modified products in the strictest possible way.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20624	Mr. Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20625	Since you weren't in the O.R. when I talked about it, last year we destroyed 70 parcels of genetically modified soybeans, and a thousand seven hundred and some control was done. What you need to know is that by amending one regulation that allowed the import of genetically modified shotguns, and there we have given a period of six months to allow importers to adapt, prohibit and import genetically modified soybeans and that ban came into force on 1 May. Therefore, the Ministry has done everything possible to ensure that no genetically modified soybean or anything else is found in the production of livestock.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20626	Member of the 25th Amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Zivkov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Article 26, the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Žutić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 26 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. Mr. Ilichu, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20627	On behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 26. Proposal for a law on genetically modified organisms, with a proposal to delete item 1 in Article 26. The general opinion of MPs who have so far spoken about this law on genetically modified organisms in particular that the possibility of exposure to the population is high. Who will, after an incident, what did you mention in Article 3(3) to bear responsibility? This is what Article 26 paragraph 1 suggests that the SRS delete: 'In the course and after the end of the deliberate introduction into the environment, within the deadlines set out in the approval, the creator, user or their authorised representative in the Republic of Serbia is obliged to submit a report to the Ministry on the results of deliberate introduction into the environment in writing or electronic form. ''What if in the report mentioned here, that user reports to the Ministry that there was an uncontrolled release of genetically modified organisms during the intentional introduction into the environment. I ask Mr. Minister - do you have an effective countermeasure to protect the ecosystem, the environment and the lives and the health of humans and animals? I would advise you - avoid such unnecessary laws and start dealing with serious problems in Serbia, that workers do not cut your fingers, that workers do not strike hunger, that farmers do not fear for a certain bad year now, with contributions that will not cover even production costs.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20628	The 25th amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the head above Articles 27 and to Articles 27, 28, 29 and 30, the Committee on Agriculture submitted the amendment. At the meeting of the Committee on Agriculture, the proposing representative accepted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible, so I find that it has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. On behalf of the head above Article 27, the amendment was submitted by MP Natasa Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Article 27, the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 27th amendment was submitted by MP Radica Jocic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 27 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljubomir Kragovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 27th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Would you like a word, Mr. Krassic? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20629	I count, when the government accepted the amendment to the Committee, that it actually accepted all of our amendments concerning this chapter. The question arises -- why did you inform us that you were refusing our amendments, and ultimately adopt exactly what was the idea of the leader of the SRS. Mr. Minister, if I wasn't in your shoes, I'd tell you the truth. I know that Mrs. Dulic-Markovic was funded by a foreign company, that she was educated there, that this company deals with these modified organisms. I also know that Delta is an exclusive importer of some seed also genetically modified varieties of corn, buckshot. Given this power of Delta, and the harbor, and this, and that, and that government, you are a small pawn in that government to oppose Miskovic and that but which exists, but I appreciate what you said you wanted to eradicate genetically modified food, seeds, organisms, products and all that is contrary to natural laws. But I get the impression it's a little late. For what? In this room and that room over the past seven or eight years, we have fought against this kind of EU approach and that so-called. the Americanization of Serbia. All of this genetically modified comes from America. We also have cloned MPs here who just come to raise their hands. At one point they say, amendments are being rejected, and after the government says -- they accept -- they say good amendments. I think you should withdraw this law. You've shown quite enough courage to stand up to both the tycoons and this lobby. As you know, there's a lobby in the pharmaceutical industry, so it turns you into a cure to treat yourself with this drug. There's this lobby, it's kind of a twist, when it comes to sugar, when it comes to coke, so people become addicted to coke. We'll probably, if this bill is passed, become addicts of genetically modified food, and then we'll look like the average Americans of 175 kilograms, with 125 cm of height, who eat cocoa butter and stare at television, counting on the mind of this world. Pull this law and save your soul.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20630	The 27th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Krstin. Do you want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20631	Mr. Minister, I speak the same way I did on the earlier amendment. It's a good thing you noticed in time what's being prepared by this law on genetically modified organisms. I see you finally agreed to join the Committee on Agriculture. 27, 28, 29 and 30 are deleted. I've submitted that article 27 is deleted. Therefore, everything is fine, it is only wrong that you did not want to accept our amendments first, but it had to go as ordered by the Rules of Procedure, between the principles and the particulars of the Agriculture Committee. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20632	The 27th amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Ljubenovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 27 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Maric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Article 28 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, Dusan Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20633	Ladies and gentlemen, I have suggested that we delete the title above Article 28 for the reasons mentioned above. For the sake of citizens who don't understand this problem, I'll try to explain what a genetically modified organism is, or genetically modified food. The way plants are modified is based on transgenic changes. This means that in an artificial way, DNA is combined from two completely different organisms to get one desired or, more and more frequently, one unwanted organism. For example, by introducing the fish's genes from Artique into tomatoes, you get tomatoes that can be grown at lower temperatures. You go to one of these big stores, held by newly-roasted Serbian mobsters, buy tomatoes and at the same time buy a piece of the fish gene from Artik. In the case of Monsanta, for example, genetic cotton is obtained by entering bacteria genes - bacillus Turiginzis, I don't even know how to read. You go to the store, buy cotton from India, buy bacteria and go to Europe with them. Of course, all this is causing a huge concern for consumers around the world, and to all this the director of corporate communication of this company, the company "Monsanto", Fila Angel, says: our company should not guarantee the safety of biotechnology food. Our interest is in selling as much as possible the same, in as much profit as possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20634	Member of the 28th amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20635	Now let me ask you something, Mr. Minister, why are you humiliating the MPs? Why didn't you adopt our amendments, but only when the Agriculture Committee came with a proposal to delete members from 27 to 30, did you accept and delete these members? Why did you, the MPs, who we gave the amendments, give us these reasons when you later deleted both the arguments and the members of the law? One more thing, what will this law look like when you delete these four, and I assume you've erased some of the other members of this law? What will this law look like, and how will it be? I suggest you, Minister, not to play with the MPs, to withdraw this law, to bring the law into order, and then to come before us. The Serbian Radical Party is not to allow amendments to import genetically modified organisms and use for nutrition in Serbia. The Serbian Radical Party is against the fact that genetically modified organisms, as they are, are harmful to health, which are harmful to the future, for future generations, to be found on the market in Serbia and that some Western lenders could earn fat and some from here. So save face, as Mr Krasic said, withdraw this law and come out with a law that will absolutely prohibit the use of dangerous genetically modified organisms.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20636	Member of the 28th amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Article 29, the amendment was submitted by MP Sladjan Mijaljevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of Parliament Marko Milenkovic submitted to the 29th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 29 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vlad Milojkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Article 30 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 30 of the amendment was submitted by MP Goran Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 30 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Ognjen Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 30 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Mladenovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 30th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Pai Momchilov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 30 of the amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) At the title of the head above the 31st Amendment was submitted by MP Milan M. Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Article 31 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Popovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Committee on Agriculture has submitted to Article 31 of the amendment. At the meeting of the Committee on Agriculture, the proposing representative accepted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers it legal, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Member of the 31st Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Paunovic-Milosavljevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 31st Amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 31 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dušanka Plecevic. Do you want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20637	I suggest that Article 31 be deleted, like all previous ones in this law. I was talking about the harmfulness of even the standard soybean in long-term use due to the phytohormon that it contains on the human organism, but not only it, but also genetically modified food given to domestic animals, gives a number of diseases, including cancer, atrophy of the liver, damage to the immune system, bleeding in the stomach, renal indevelopment, brain failure, nervous cell development, blood cells, and numerous unexplained causes of death. These diseases and disorders were even recorded in rats that were experimentally fed by genetically modified tomatoes. Scientists who were trying to establish protocols and procedures for the control of genetically modified organisms, which is Dr. Pustai from the University of California, were fired after 35 years of work. Other scientists are silenced by threats or forced to change the results of research. There are no widespread control organisms in the world as a result of the absence of independent scientific research, mainly due to pressure from multinational corporations to produce genetically modified organisms, intricacies and indifference of ruling structures, which decide to apply genetically modified organisms. Many countries do not want genetically modified organisms in their fields and tables, suffer great pressure, primarily from America and the famous monster called Monsanto. For now, they resist this aggression. I doubt that this pressure is the cause of the adoption and of these regulations with us, so I doubt that our expert advice, which is planned here, will be spared the pressures, threats and blackmail. We remember former Agriculture Minister Ivana Dulic-Markovic, who freely shared genetically modified soybean seed with Serbian peasants, thus allowing the monster to be found in Serbia. No wonder we know that this expert was a scholarship to the aforementioned Monsant, a corporation for the production of genetically modified seeds, organisms and plants, behind which the second one would be to the Rockefeller Foundation. This foundation has trained many leading scientists and experts from America, Asia, and even Serbia. If we don't fight back in time, we're going to be swept up by global American GMO politics or full-spectrum domination, as they call it, and we're going to become experimental rabbits. After all, their duty is: only a hungry man and a obedient man.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20638	Member of the 31st Amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20639	Ladies and gentlemen, on this article 31, I have submitted an amendment to delete, or like all members of the SRS, we are against this law on genetically modified organisms. We will, as you have seen, comment, until the moment you realize it, and you need to understand that this law is not for our society, for our people and for future generations to come. I have one quality remark, i.e. I am pleased that the Minister has accepted the amendment to this Article 31, and the same amendment I have submitted, the Committee on Agriculture, and my colleagues have mainly commented that the Committee on Agriculture has proposed certain amendments that are identical with the proposed amendments of the SRS. This is just one in a series of stories that our amendments are not treated the same, i.e. they do not have the same weight as some other MPs, or MPs from the ruling coalition. Mr Krasic has been exhibited and my colleagues have said that this law has already arrived late in this area, as genetically modified organisms and plants have already won this space, are now only finesse, i.e. now it is a government that will act by its operation or inaction to spread this monster in these areas to unprecedented proportions. I will remind you, I am saying this because of the citizens of Serbia, that they know what is going to happen, or what are the food initiatives of this law. For example, those Americans of whom we accept all of this for granted, they now feed chickens that weigh between five and 15 kilos, and these chickens without feathers.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20640	Member of the 31st Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Committee on Agriculture has tabled an amendment proposing that a new Article 31a be added after Article 31a. Since an amendment was adopted at the meeting of the Committee on Agriculture, and the legislative opinion that the amendment is legally possible, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The title above article 32 was submitted by MP Dobrislav Prelic, who wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20641	I have submitted an amendment to Article 32, which is waste management. This is the case with Article 32: "The creator, user or their authorised representative in the Republic of Serbia is obliged to destroy the waste contained, consisting of or obtained from GMOs, as well as the waste generated by the use of GMOs, so that GMOs are no longer able to reproduce and transfer genetic material to other organisms. ''Mr. Minister, in the 2006 and 2007 soybean purchase, there were designated warehouses, unlike last year, when GM soybeans were not allowed and such soybeans were received. It was received in Zadrugarca in Sombor, received at the Karadjordjevo Military Institute, received in Kikinda, Zrenjanin, Gaydobra, etc. It is received in silos that have the opportunity to physically separate modified soybean from regular correct soybean. I ask you, is this soybean destroyed or has it been processed in Soyaprotein, Vienna and Diamond in Zrenjanin, and such soybeans, I say responsibly, have remained on our market, and we have exported our soy or soy shotgun. It is inadmissible, Mr. Minister, and since I believe that you know how long it takes us to fight after such a strain of GM soybeans, and even now a genetically modified corn and sunflower appears, I think we must seriously all get to this job, to put an end to it, because we need a long period of time to deal with this phenomenon.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20642	Member of the 32nd Amendment was submitted by MP Marina Ragush. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Committee on Agriculture has submitted to Article 32 of the amendment. Since an amendment was adopted at the meeting of the Committee on Agriculture, and the legislative opinion that the amendment is legally possible, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The 32nd Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Arpad Fremond. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP, Verica Radet, submitted to the title above Article 33 of the amendment. Would you like a word, Mrs. Radeta? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20643	Article 33 speaks of liability for damage caused by adverse effects on human health and the environment in relation to GMOs. Mr. Minister, when the adverse effects on human health and the environment occur, then you are too late to take any action and it is too late to declare someone responsible for such damage. You will be responsible, Mr. Minister, unless you withdraw this law. You made it clear on the Committee on Agriculture, today you put your personal position here to oppose genetically modified products. Then why can't you say that and why you have to follow the trail of Ivana Dulic-Markovic and her friends, whose names I can't remember, who was the assistant for sanitary supervision at the Ministry of Health, I only know that the lady was from Zagreb and that they worked together with the company "Monsanto". You just said that eight years later you have problems and you're talking about how much surface area with genetically modified strain you've destroyed, how much control you've done. Do not let us, Mr Dragin, talk about you in the coming years or decades, as we are talking about today, about Mrs Ivana Dulic-Markovic, especially when you have made it clear that you are an opponent of genetically modified products and instead of saying that this is forbidden in Serbia, you determine who will be responsible for the damage that can occur in the health of people and the environment. That's exactly what we Serbian radicals have been talking about all afternoon.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20644	National MP Milovan Radovanovic submitted the amendment to Article 33. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the head above the 34th Amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) At the title of the head above the article, the 34th Amendment was submitted by MP Suleiman Spaho. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Member of the 34th Amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Would you like a word, Mr. Stevanovic? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20645	Mr. Minister, my argument in a political sense will not differ from the reasoning of my colleagues that you have so far heard. I have proposed to delete Article 34's Article 1 position and this is contained in the following chapter: Register of GMOs and products from GMOs and register of licences. I have suggested that paragraph 1 be deleted, which reads: The GMO register and GMO products are entered in GMOs and a product from GMOs for which an authorisation for deliberate introduction into the environment is granted, for placing on the market, or for transport. For the SRS, Serbia sees neither national nor any other political interest in adopting such a law. This is one in a series of laws that show that our national interests definitely do not, at least when it comes to agriculture, no parallels with the national integration programme. In this explanation, you have stated that the draft GMO law is conditioned by the process of our country's integration into the EU. This law is proof that Serbia's integration process is a high-priced thing, and you're aware of that, and you're explaining that these are laws that you want to establish a system of control and measures to protect the environment and health of people from possible harmful effects when using these organisms. Our view is that this use was meant to be completely absorbed, completely banned, and it seems to me that it would represent Serbia's interest, everything else is a thing that you won't be able to do through time, so it turns out, that you're controlling and there's going to be big problems.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20646	The Committee on Agriculture submitted to Article 34 of the amendment. Since an amendment was adopted at the meeting of the Committee on Agriculture, and the legislative opinion that the amendment is legally possible, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Member of the 34th Amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Member of the 34th Amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Todorovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 34 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marina Toman. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 34 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Škrbić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above the article 35th amendment was submitted by MP Ljubisa Petkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Parliamentarian Milan Avramovic submitted to the 35th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Committee on Agriculture has submitted to Article 35 of the amendment. Given that an amendment has been adopted at the meeting of the Committee on Agriculture, and the Legislative Committee considers it legal, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Member of the 35th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Acimovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 35th amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Article 36 of the amendment was tabled by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 36 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Elena Christmas-Talian. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 36 of the amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Vukicevic Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 36 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Jadranko Vukovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 36th Amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Vukovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above the article 37th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Veselinović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 37 of the amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Lidija Dimitrijevic submitted to Article 37 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 37 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Duvnjak. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Branimir Djokic submitted to the title above Article 38 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP, Srboljub Zivanovic, submitted to the 38th amendment. Would you like a word, Mr. Zivanovic? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20647	Ladies and gentlemen, here, in this very House, a great fight against GMOs has begun against genetically modified soybeans. Even then, Professor Vojislav Seselj explained and spoke about the harmfulness of GMOs to Mr Micunovic, who was then president of the federal parliament. But deafness was not possible to prove, because then, as it is now, the DS did not think about its children, about those to whom this future should remain. Ladies and gentlemen, that's why I'm thinking about why the 38th member of the House needed me to make a point about this amendment at all, but in fact, on the Agriculture Committee, this law should not have been found and discussed at all, it should have been said that this law is withdrawn. So, ladies and gentlemen, this isn't yesterday's, these past few years. Like the minister said, was it really a ban? It is not true, because the plots on which the GMOs were banned and farmed, they were cut, bleached and also used as food for cattle. There was no total destruction, no incineration, because DS wanted to get close to the peasants, apparently as if he were thinking about them. That's not true. DS doesn't think about peasants, or think about the future, and the future is actually children, because to think, you would already know what the ransom price of agricultural products, wheat, is what it already needs to reap.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20648	Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20649	Given that you were interested in the price of agricultural products, I can tell you exactly the price of today's production market in Novi Sad. As for the average price of corn, it is 12.57 dinars, 11.64 dinars without VAT, as regards the average price of wheat on today, it is 14.40 dinars, 13.33 without VAT, i.e. over the past few weeks and a half, it is an increase between 30% and 40%.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20650	Mr. Zivanovic, you can only go from the time of your parliamentary group. (Srboljub Zivanovic, throws out the place: Replica. ) Please, there is no basis for replication. There was no personal address, not to you personally, I listened. The Committee on Agriculture submitted to Article 38 of the amendment. Given that an amendment has been adopted at the meeting of the Committee on Agriculture, and the Legislative Committee considers it legal, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. On behalf of the head above the 39th amendment, MP Dragan Zivkov submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Please be quiet, Mr. Markovic. Member of the 39th Amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Žutic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 39 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. Does he want a word? He does. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20651	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have tabled an amendment to Article 39. Proposal for a law on genetically modified organisms, with a proposal to delete item 2 in this article. What Article 39(2) says: “Inspection of the implementation of the provisions of this law and the regulations adopted under this law shall be carried out by the Ministry through (refer to) the phytosanitary and veterinary inspectors”. Article 39 of this bill best says how much you take indemnity to the potential danger of the adoption and implementation of this law. In the first part of the law, you only talk about science-related laboratory research, security measures, since even the minister, I see it in Article 5, establishes a expert advice on biosecurity to consider expert opinions on this issue. Now that we're talking about surveillance, surveillance over one of these serious issues and one serious situation should be done by simple phytosanitary and veterinary inspectors. This is a concrete example of how you play with people's health. About what there is an expert advice on biosecurity, from people who are dedicated to science, who deal with this problem, should be supervised by ordinary phytosanitary and veterinary inspectors. It will certainly not be quality and proportionate, and dying for the citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20652	National MP Vladan Jeremic submitted to the 39th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Mr. Mašić.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20653	Madam President, I still have to intervene as a man who's graduated from veterinary school and on behalf of an agronomy engineer. I don't think what was said by Mr. Ilic, anywhere in the world, especially in countries where the production of genetically modified organisms exists, is precisely the jurisdiction of the phytosanitary and veterinary inspection to monitor the degree of genetic modification. It's perfectly normal for a law like this to regulate itself in our country. There are certainly no ordinary and unusual veterinarians and agronomists, but each veterinarian has completed veterinary studies that last five years, which are quite difficult. Also, an agronomy engineer, whether he's finished protecting plants or some other college, but he's graduated in any case from college.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20654	National MP Vladan Jeremic submitted to the 39th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the title above the 40th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Committee on Agriculture has submitted to Article 40 of the amendment. Given that an amendment has been adopted at the meeting of the Committee on Agriculture, and the Legislative Committee considers it legal, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 40th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 40th Amendment was submitted by MP Radica Jocic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Parliamentarian Ljubomir Kragovic submitted to the 40th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 40th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. I guess he wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20655	Of course, we have also asked for some interventions in previous members, and this amendment follows the previous amendments. He will share the same fate as the previous amendments. What I'd just like to draw attention to, first of all, to the public, to understand what this is about. What is forbidden is already present and weak will be the consequences of this law. To understand what this government is doing or all of these governments have been doing since 2001, it's about like, since they're all Eurofanatics, they're looking at the EU and America, and they're counting on everything that comes from there to be sweet, so regardless of what they're throwing it off that territory, it wouldn't surprise me if someone concluded that this is a country where a law on space research is to be passed and how a space shuttle of Serbian production goes to heaven. They'd pass such a law, there's only one problem that we technologically can't do it. That's the new thing. And at this session, we have a law within the agenda, under which we should fight something that does not exist in Serbia. You know it's easier to prevent than to heal. However, this law is neither prevented, nor treated, because the practical state and practice of implementing our laws are in absolute contrast to what is declared to be the government's position or what is written in our laws. So Tadic promises 500,000 new jobs, then make sure 200,000 will be fired. They promise Fiat, count on it there's nothing. Of course, that's how they experience this power, the exercise of power, that uncritically, uncontrollably, they can do anything and we know for ourselves, the one who made the government won't allow them to be against him like this.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20656	Mr. Srdjan Milivojevic has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20657	Dear Madam President, distinguished representatives of the ministry, I think this is a law passed by the government of the Republic of Serbia, and these laws are not passed anywhere abroad to apply in Serbia, but brought here. The only trustee we have here in Serbia, which tells us to pass these laws, is the citizens of Serbia, and they expressed their electoral will in the elections. I see no reason to open this topic when it comes to a very important law. However, it is a good law, because if part of this law is passed, perhaps through genetically modified wheat it will be able to sell bread for three dinars in Serbia. So it might still be a good law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20658	Thank you, Mr. Milivoevich. The 40th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Krstin. Would you like a word, Mr. Christin? Yes, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20659	I was simply amazed by Mr. Milivojevic's observation, and I have no words. I think we're clear in front of the SRS parliamentary group. We appreciate that the minister, in fact, did what he did. The minister accepted literally everything we asked for as an opposition, along with a deputy chairman of the Agriculture Committee, not to list all the people who participated in these amendments, and they were accepted. So the law on genetically modified organisms has been completely amended. It is banned in Serbia, banned in transport only for scientific purposes but also in limited operation. Let me just say that in Article 40, I put the point 5 to be deleted. The minister didn't accept it, the board submitted the same, the minister accepted. I believe my amendment has been accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20660	National MP Tomislav Ljubenovic submitted to the 40th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 40th Amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Maric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 40th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Would you like a word, Mr. Maric? Yes, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20661	Ladies and gentlemen, I have tabled an amendment that I propose by erasing point 8 of Article 40 of this bill. I'm going to use this time to say something from Monsanto's business biography, which is the campaign operator of the introduction of genetically modified food into the diet. In 1948, the production of herbicide 245E began, which, due to the production process, contains dioxin applications. It was used in the manufacture of "orange agent" preparations used by the U.S. military to destroy leaves in the forests in Vietnam, with the hope that this would deny the natural hideouts of the Vietcong military. I remember about 20,000 kilometers of forest was destroyed in Vietnam. The preparation proved to be relatively successful, a strategy not so successful, and the end result, besides hundreds of thousands of dying Vietnameses, hundreds of thousands of babies born with anomalies, as well as long-term forest pollution in Vietnam, which continues to affect local residents, their children and animals. U.S. Veterans' lawsuit, paid by the company in 1984 by more than $100m in damages to military health. In the early 1970s, this herbicide was banned, and at about the same time Monsanto patented and began production of herbicide "rundap". Since the herbicide is being used massively in the country of Serbia, I will read what French journalist Mari Monik Robin concluded after three years of research. He says – the Rondap has become a favorite of farmers and gardeners, among other things, and because Monsanto has found that this product is naturally dissolved and is not harmful to the environment. But that's a lie. Rondap is not only harmful to the environment, but it has been scientifically proven to cause cancer, as proven in several scientific experiments.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20662	National MP Momir Markovic submitted to the 40th amendment. Do you want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20663	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, just a few minutes ago you had a chance to see the adverse impact of genetically modified organisms on the mental set of individuals, I'm not going to name it, so that...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20664	Mr. Markovic, I'll give you a warning if you continue to speak in that tone. I'm really asking you right now to take care of the dignity of the MPs, of our colleagues, in this home. Please don't talk like that in this house.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20665	I didn't apostrophe anyone, I didn't mention anyone like this. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, here is the absurdity of this law. Article 40, point 9, says – it checks the treatment of waste containing, consisting, obtained or produced by the use of genetically modified organisms. So, ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, the citizens of Serbia, this government, this ministry will bring into circulation the genetically modified organisms, with all the harmful consequences they bear with them, but will strictly take care of the waste generated by use, storage, which has been created by the use of genetically modified organisms, etc. I deeply hope that at least this part of the waste won't be taken into account by people who have barely graduated from the agricultural college with 7.6 under suspicious circumstances enrolled in the Master's degree and doctorate, because according to the students of the Veterinary Faculty in Novi Sad, and there are such at our universities.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20666	The title above article 41 was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Committee on Agriculture has submitted to Article 41 of the amendment. Given that an amendment has been adopted at the meeting of the Committee on Agriculture, the Legislative Committee considers that it is legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Member of the 41st Amendment was submitted by MP Sladjan Mijaljevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 41st Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marko Milenkovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Ambassador Vlad Milojkovic submitted to Article 41 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Member of the 41st amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Ambassador Goran Mihajlovic submitted to the 41st amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Member of the 41st amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Mladenovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Pai Momchilov, submitted to the title above Article 42 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The Committee on Agriculture has submitted to Article 42 of the amendment. Since an amendment was adopted at the meeting of the Committee on Agriculture, the proposer's representative considered it legally possible and became an integral part of the bill's proposal. Member of the 42nd amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Ambassador Milan M. Nikolic submitted to Article 42 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Member of the 42nd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Popovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go, Mr. Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20667	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 42 of the Law on genetically modified organisms, which reads - Article 42(3) is deleted. Our people say, "If you do not know how to arrange your yard, look over the board, and see what the neighbor has done." By running this system, I will read how this problem is addressed in neighbouring Croatia. The Croatian Peasant Party sent a public request to the Croatian government asking for a ban on the collection of genetically modified seeds, including for research purposes, to ensure Croatia's status as a country where no seeds with genetically modified organisms are sown. In the peasant party, they also seek the introduction of a strict border control system so that the genetically modified seed would not be introduced into Croatia. They point out that Croatia is a signator of the Protocol on Biosafety, whose purpose is to ensure an adequate level of protection in the field of security transfer, handling and use of living genetically modified organisms. The Protocol lays down a minimum of protection, but allows countries to go beyond that minimum, which means that even in the existence of at least a doubt that some of the living genetically modified organisms are harmful to the environment, it is possible to ban its imports into the country. In Croatia, the peasant party points out that they are seeking to ban regionally from importing genetically modified seeds, and that the whole region is declared a zone free from genetically modified organisms. They note that they both gave support to the idea by Italy, Slovenia and Austria.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20668	The 42nd amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Paunovic-Milosavljevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Member of the 42nd amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? (No) Member of the 42nd amendment was submitted by MP Dušanka Plecevic. Here you go, Mrs. Plecevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20669	I suggest that article 42 be deleted from this law, for the reasons I had previously said, that no genetic modification should be applied in Serbia, as this is harmful to health and the environment. The natural biological and genetic characteristics of a species within the race must be protected, preserved and transmitted to the next generations by natural means and by selecting healthy individuals capable of conveying the characteristics of unchanged biological properties to their offspring. Selection is not the same as genetic modification. We are now returning, and that is good, to the indigenous races of domestic animals, cattle, pigs, sheep, donkeys and others that have been almost extinct and who have remained only thanks to the enthusiasts and lovers of these races. This shows all the negligence of responsible individuals and institutions in the past decades and the intention of importing everything and everything from the white world, from who knows which initiatives, and most often from commissions. We had a drastic example of so-called. Crazy cows in England, which is due to the manipulation of feeding these animals with fish flour, therefore, food of animal origin, not plant, which survives food, which is the installation of protein of animal origin in the cow's genome and the production of so-called "cows". Trion Diseases, i.e. installation of deoxyribonucleic acid into the DNA of the central nervous system of cattle. It's all very dangerous because people fed on the meat and milk of these animals. Research on this issue is strictly controlled and inaccessible to the public.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20670	Member of the 42nd amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Gordana Pop-Lazic, submitted to the title above Article 43 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The Committee on Agriculture has submitted to Article 43 of the amendment. At the meeting of the Committee, the proposing representative accepted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible, so I find that it has become an integral part of the bill. Member of the 43rd amendment was submitted by MP Dobrislav Prelic. Here you go, Mr. Flea.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20671	I have submitted an amendment to Article 43 which is linked to Article 42. The government didn't accept this amendment, it's just amazing, it's veterinary inspections. The SRS believes that, as I said, checking and placing on the market, or transporting GMOs and anything else, that it should be absolutely prohibited, so we think there is no need for something like this, but it has to be explicitly prohibited. I don't believe any of the GMOs, which I just said, which was stored in these silos, that it was destroyed, were already processed in Soyaprotein and Diamond and placed on the market. Mr. Minister, you answer only what suits you when it comes to our questions. Now you said that the price of corn is currently on the market 12.57, and wheat is 14.40, and soy - I didn't hear exactly what you said, but my findings are that it's about 40 dinars somewhere. Something's better when it comes to wheat and corn. Tell me about the soy, Mr. Minister, I'm sure you know which farmer now has soy on the lager? Soon there will be a purchase of soy and wheat, and I have knowledge that there will be no more expensive soybeans, that the price will move between 19 and 22 dinars. How do you explain to our farmer that for years in this period soybeans are twice as expensive, and when the harvest comes, prices drop drastically? I ask you to take one serious policy, one stability for our farmer, that he has security in any segment, and when it comes to primary agricultural production, and when it comes to livestock production. Thank you, two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20672	The 43rd Amendment was submitted by MP Marina Ragush. Does anyone want a word? (No) Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20673	I'd just like to say that I got the information from the production market in Novi Sad. I don't know how prices are going to move in the future, because I can simply get estimates based on what weather data is, or that there was a flood in North America during the winter that destroyed the race, or in South America, where there was a great drought in Argentina. Based on that, the price rises, now demand. If you have someone you think creates a price on the domestic market, and the price is otherwise formed on the free market, as far as I know, I don't know, I don't hang out with those people, and I don't intend to, you know, if you're hanging out, it's an honor to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20674	The 43rd Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. You wanted the amendment, Mr. Markicevic? Please, no. Nothing offensive, Mr. Secretary responds to some of your findings, receives information, very actively monitors, very actively participates, and indeed has not offended anyone, there was no vagueness. The breach of the Rules of Procedure is advertised by Mrs. Verica Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20675	I'm advertising Article 113. The Rules of Procedure, which states that the provisions of this Rules of Procedure in the session of the National Assembly are applied to all other participants in the sitting, in addition to the Members of Parliaments, and shall be applied accordingly to the meetings of the Committees and other working bodies of the National Assembly. Madam President of the National Assembly, this earlier remark by Mr Dragin, whom none of the MPs of the SRS, we have been discussing for two days the laws that he represents here, in no way or insinuation has offended. We're talking professionally, the ones who understand that profession, the legal ones, the ones that are from that area. There is no reason for Minister Dragin to address SRS MPs like this all day long. I am sorry that you do not notice it and that you did not notice the way your colleague said it earlier – he does not associate with such people, and with whom you associate, let it serve you the honor. Let it serve both you and Mr. Secretary this way to communicate with the MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20676	It's precisely because we are extremely correct and Mr. Secretary's cooperation with the MPs is extraordinary, I would not change that tone. Member of the 43rd Amendment was submitted by the MP, Ms Radet. Do you want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20677	In Article 43, you say what a veterinary inspector does when it comes to genetically modified organisms, but you say what a veterinary inspector can do. He can ban the placing on the market, order the marking of these products, order the destruction of illicit products, etc. Mr. Minister, what is this formula for you to play with such dangerous things and say that a veterinary inspector can do it. The veterinary inspector has to do this. What happens, I ask you, Mr. Minister, if the veterinary inspector, since you tell him he can't do this? Who will suffer the consequences, who will bear responsibility? The consequences, we know, will be borne by the citizens of Serbia, and who will be responsible? You have also made yourself quite a commitment in this law as a minister and believe that it is a great responsibility on you, and it is amazing that you have accepted and that you do not react to turn this "can" into "the sea", so that at least as much as you protect yourself from any self-will or abuse of some inspectors or, say, co-worker of the company "Monsanto", the famous "MK Komertz" company, which, in collaboration with the "Monsanto", introduced the modified strain through Mrs Dulic-Markovic. A question for you, Mr. Minister. Since the concerned citizens are watching us, I have heard from a farmer from the King asking, asking for an immediate answer, if possible, who has suspended the payment of one-year-old loans to peasants in the King today? They were told to come this morning at 10 a.m., they were told 12 a.m. for these loans, or loans. At twelve, they were told there was no such thing as a ban from Belgrade.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20678	Mr. Secretary obviously needs to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20679	First and foremost, it is necessary to ensure that the ministry subsidises short-term loans, i.e. long-term loans. The short-term subsidizes in such a way that it subsidises interest, while long-term in such a way that it enters the body of the loan by 40%. It works through commercial banks and therefore commercial banks lend loans, or loans, does not give the ministry, and it really does not have to, nor is it our duty to have information related to the exposure of any commercial bank, but we only try to get farmers to meet not to take loans with 15% interest, but to take loans with 5% interest.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20680	The 43rd amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Radovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 43rd amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 43rd Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Suleiman Spaho. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Filip Stojanovic submitted to the title above the 44th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 44th Amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Todorovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MP Marina Toman submitted to Article 44 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On top of the article, the 45th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Škrbić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 45th Amendment was submitted by MP Ljubisa Petkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Committee on Agriculture has submitted to Article 45 of the amendment. At the meeting of the Committee, the proposing representative accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible, so it became an integral part of the bill. Member of the 45th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 45th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Acimovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 45th amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 45 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Article 46, the People's MP Elena Christmas-Talian submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 46 of the amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Vukicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Committee on Agriculture has submitted to Article 46 of the amendment. At the meeting of the Committee, the proposing representative accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible, so I find that it has become an integral part of the bill. Member of the 46th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Jadranko Vukovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the head above the article 47th Amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Vukovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above the article 47th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Veselinović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 47 of the amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Committee on Agriculture has submitted to Article 47 of the amendment. At the meeting of the Committee, the proposing representative accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible, so I find that it has become an integral part of the bill. Lidija Dimitrijevic submitted to the 47th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MP Momcilo Duvnjak submitted to the title above Article 48 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 48th amendment was submitted by MP Branimir Djokic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Committee on Agriculture has submitted to Article 48 of the amendment. At the meeting of the Committee, the proposing representative accepted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considered it legally possible, and became an integral part of the bill. Srboljub Zivanovic submitted to the 48th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 48th Amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Zivkov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 48 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Žutić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Radisa Ilic submitted to the title above Article 49 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Mr. Ilic wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20681	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have tabled an amendment to the title above Article 49, with a proposal to delete the title, and that title reads as "Frace of Legal Persons". For something that could cost a person life and health, for something that could lead to disability, to environmental pollution, someone under this law will pay a fine based on article 49 of between 200 thousand and millions of dinars. No one here is harassing anyone, we are not harassing the public, but from this law Serbia will not benefit at all, possibly only from damage. In particular, in this article 49, I will give a few examples of why someone can pay only 200,000 dinars and cause great damage to both citizens and the environment. For example, at point 4 of Article 49, they will pay the fine if they investigate genetically modified organisms and products without the authority of the ministry, which is a major offense. Furthermore, in point 7) – if used in closed systems and not authorised for a certain degree of risk, or does not submit a report to the Ministry on the results of the intentional introduction into the environment, etc. In the end, I would also express hope that when individuals stop using genetically modified wheat, they will eventually stop telling stories about 200,000 new jobs, free actions of thousands of euros, 100 thousand Fiata produced in Kragujevac, Schengen visas or Serbia's entry into the EU. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20682	The Committee on Agriculture submitted to Article 49 of the amendment. At the meeting of the Committee, the proposing representative accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible, so I find that it has become an integral part of the bill. Member of the 49th amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 49 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Natasa Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 49 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 49 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radica Jocic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Parliamentarian Ljubomir Kragovic submitted to Article 49 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 49th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Would you like a word, Mr. Krassic? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20683	Of course, if what the minister said at the outset is true, then that Article 49 is also quite pointless, because those members are governed primarily by violations and the criminal liability of legal persons. But, of course, we suspect everything the minister said and those promises, because it's pretty late what we're doing right now. I'd just have to distract you, you know, the consequences of the use of food that is made and made of genetically modified substances are very dangerous and the whole world is leaving it. Only the Americans are throwing something out there, but they're a whole other world. Currently, the main trend is this ecological food, something that is a comparative advantage for Serbia. You see when this hepatitis D, the jaundice caused by the power of the DS, then the overcome solutions here are promoted as something epochal. But why is that done? It takes that food for our citizens to eat, to simply change the mental image, to be like when someone holds a five-hour cell phone in their ear, of course to sneak up, because it irradiates it. Why does it take this collective radiation - so no one can ask what's going on in the "Wine Parish" Alexandrovac, who owns it? We know about Alexander Vlahovic, but there is also a widow Djindjic. Also, so we don't ask the Ministry of Agriculture who sells artificial fertilizer, which is Victoria Group, which is more expensive than what appears on the market. We need all of us to be genetically modified because we have such power – if we do not want to be genetically modified. That is why we are warning all citizens of the Republic of Serbia - get rid of the Democratic Party, for which they have been caught, they have all dried up.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20684	Right on the line Srdjan Milivojevic. Or do you want to speak by amendment? (Srdjan Milivojevic: Can be amended, there will be more time. Here you go. You'd also be entitled to a replica, Mr. Krasic, the way you spoke was tendant and that's quite clear. The gentleman has reported to speak according to the amendment. Here you go, Mr. Milivoevich.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20685	I'll use, Madam President, and the time of the DS parliamentary group, because I want to talk a little more extensively about the amendment. So I understand that this is an interesting topic, a debate on genetically modified food, and that it uses the possibility of an SRS parliamentary group to speak about the DS and the town of Krusevec in any way possible. As far as I know, the Agency for Economic Registers "Vino parish" is one prominent company that does not deal with the production of genetically modified food, nor do I know that in the Agency for Economic Registers next to the name of the owner of "Vino parish" there is also the name of Aleksandr Vlahovic, my party colleague or Mrs Ruzica Djindjic. With such innuendos, when someone does not have enough arguments to explain their amendment and when there is not enough way for the quality of this amendment to entangle the public, he must mention the public figures of this country, which have made an immeasurable contribution, and have given at all the opportunity to find such a law here, because this is one European law. This law will certainly represent a good step towards Europe. On the other hand, when we talk about this amendment and when we talk through this amendment about Mrs. Ruzica Djindjic, with the insinuation that she is the owner of the "Vino Župa" factory, and we mention the town of Kruševac, for the sake of the citizens of Zemun, for the sake of the people of Voždovac - I come from Kruševac. In Kruševec, the government is running the SRS. I don't know if they're using genetically modified food, but I do know that several dozen million dinars are being separated from the city's cash register to maintain a fountain in the town of Krusevec. I don't know if it's genetically modified food, champagne or plain water, but all I know is that when someone behaves like that in the town of Krushevac...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20686	Mr. Milivoevich, compare the findings of this home.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20687	Thank you. So when someone is talking about the town of Krusevec and genetically modified food, they automatically send a message to the citizens of Serbia – don't vote for us, we know nothing but slander. Thank you. (Zoran Krasic, from the site: I am reporting from the site. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20688	The amendment was submitted by Parliamentarian Milorad Krstin to Article 49. Mr. Krassic, please. What's the base of the call? - Replica. There was nothing offensive. For you personally? On behalf of the parliamentary group, on behalf of the SRS, or do you personally want to speak? Here you go, on behalf of the SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20689	Mrs. Dejanovic, I assume you've heard that I didn't even mention the Kruševac. He's talking about Krushevec. If I were to talk about Krusevec, I'd say it's a model place, there's no Šinter service, because they found one who makes burgers and all the puppies end up in burgers, and then they split up some and then they're grinning, but it's not the subject. That's not the point. I don't want to talk to the U.S. Embassy courier, please -- who else believes that. It was only in the sixth round that the municipal board elected him as an MP, when Tadic ordered that the municipal board be bombed unless they accepted him as an MP. It's a warrant for America, and I don't let someone like this rephrase and call things out. First of all, everything he said was not true. Please let someone check, I've asked these questions several times from this pay phone and I've never got an answer. Why don't I get answers? A few days ago, I was in Alexandrovac. Convince someone in Alexandrovac about what Srdjan Milivojevic is saying. As he convinced people about Fiat, free action, 500,000 new jobs, honey and milk – now we see "The mouth", we see "Luka" and I don't speak anymore. Who's showing up there - all these US Embassy exhibits? Who defends Boris Tadic – Homen and Constantinović? It's all OTPOR, so the OTPOR has taken over DS. The main ideologist is this farmer here, the main ideologist – Srdjan Milivojevic. The main ideologist is Srdjan Milivojevic and of course I have to replicate the main ideologist DS.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20690	The amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Milorad Krstin, to Article 49. Do you want a word? Here you go, Mr. Kristin.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20691	Here, we're nearing the end of the amendments to genetically modified food, and hopefully some will no longer appear to have consumed a little more, actually genetically modified organisms. Minister, you in Article 49(1) point (1) have deleted, then 10)-16. I have submitted an amendment to delete point 7 and to consider that those who operate in closed systems and do not have a permit for certain degrees, this point should be deleted. Logically, someone who is using closed systems without permission for a certain degree of risk is deleted, as are the others you suggested to delete, which I think is very good.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20692	The amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Ljubenovic to Article 49. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 49th Amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Maric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 49 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Would you like a word, Mr. Maric? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20693	Ladies and gentlemen, I have filed a request to delete paragraph 10) of Article 1 49. I'm going to use these two minutes to point out a few more facts that confirm that genetically modified food is a devil's work and that the United States is behind this work, that is, their geostrategic colonial interests. The first fact of Bremer's administration in Iraq was to impose a ban on farmers to use seeds obtained from patent-protected plants. What's this about? The peasants in Iraq are forbidden to use their families this year as seed for next year. Instead, they have to buy seeds from this American company, Monsanto. The next fact, the US Embassy in Zagreb in 2001 pressured Croatia not to prohibit or introduce restrictions on imports of genetically modified organisms. The Ultimateum was clear: if it does not comply with the request, Croatia will suffer consequences through the World Trade Organisation. I conclude this: if Croatia, which is an ally of the United States, and the United States has, among other things, helped Croatia occupy the Republic of Serbia, it means, if America was blackmailing its ally – Croatia, it is logical to conclude that it was blackmailing Serbia, which it bombed, and therefore I conclude that the debate we have today, including the bill, is the result of the pressure we have from Brussels and Washington. As time goes by, I'll point to just one more fact. Says the company ‘Monsanto’ produces synthetic growth hormone given to cows to increase milk production, which causes mastitis in cows and, in practice, continuous antibiotic therapy.’
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20694	Member of the 49th amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. Do you want to explain the amendment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20695	We have now reached the criminal provisions of this law and here we see that the Ministry, that the Government, will be fiercely involved with those who produce and put into circulation, transport, etc. genetically modified organisms without the approval of the Ministry. So he says: “The fine of 200,000 to 1,000,000 dinars will be fined for a violation of a legal person if... “ there are some 18 points there, and point 11 says: “He does not submit to the Ministry for the purpose of obtaining approval for each placing on the market, i.e. for the transport of genetically modified organisms and products from genetically modified organisms other than those introduced (Article 27, paragraph 4)” that we do not return to Article 27. You have a typical situation – "Curve product" from Surcin imported twice 50,000 tonnes of genetically modified soybeans in 2001 and it is likely that continuity is continued because its livestock food is much cheaper on the market, therefore it is more sold, and can only be cheaper this way, it will be punished by 200,000, because one of the founders of DS is very supportive of DS. I expected the minister, in addition to these penalties, to say and – a reminder, but don't happen to you next time, etc. Do you think you're protecting the market, protecting the nation, protecting the state, protecting generations, protecting future generations with a threat and a fine of 200,000 for legal persons who consciously enter jobs like this, because these kinds of jobs make a huge profit? Mr. Minister, please adopt this amendment and delete this. You'd better delete it than it doesn't.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20696	The amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic to Article 49. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 49 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Sladjan Mijaljevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 49th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marko Milenkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 49 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vlad Milojkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 49th amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 49th Amendment was submitted by MP Goran Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 49th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Ognjen Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 49 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Mladenovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 50th Amendment was submitted by MP Pai Momchilov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Committee on Agriculture has submitted to Article 50 of the amendment. Given that an amendment has been adopted at the meeting of the Committee on Agriculture, and the Legislative Committee considers it legal, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Ambassador Mirko Munjic submitted to the 50th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 50th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milan M. Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 50th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Popovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 50th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Paunović-Milosavljevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 50th Amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 50 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dušanka Plecevic. Do you want a word? Mrs. Plecevic? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20697	My amendment refers to Article 50 in order to delete point 6. The article discusses the punishment of entrepreneurs and I do not see a link between entrepreneurs and scientists, unless he is also a scientist, as the minister said that genetically modified organisms and manipulations in that direction would only be done for scientific purposes. They ask what scientific purposes? We don't have the technology for this, or the equipped labs, or the professional cabinet, or the plan, or the research program, or the regulations on the procedures that follow that program. Then who will perform genetic manipulations in Serbia? I suppose it will be done by strangers, who are already manipulating both political and economic and military, and even our consciousness. Who opens the way for them in Serbia, when we know it's forbidden in most parts of the world? Such research serves only in the creation of biological weapons, funded by the black funds of greedy corporations and the military industry of the most developed countries, such as birds' or pig flu. We don't care if the "merciful angel" comes from the sky or from the lab. That's why the SRS is determined against these and such manipulations. Mr. Minister, I suggest that, in the interest of our people's health, you withdraw this bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20698	Member of the 50th Amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Dobrislav Prelic and Gordana Pop-Lazic submitted to the 50th Amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Mr. Dobrislav Prelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20699	Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, it is obvious that you are applying the double arches here as chairman. Learn well from Mrs. Comic. I couldn't get a word for the replica when the minister spoke directly to me, but that's why you gave Mr Milivojevic the word that he had the right to reply. But, well, believe me, it's only for us. Mr. Minister, I don't know what I've irritated you to address me that way. I only asked you together to find the best solution for our farmer, to keep prices stable, not to be the price of buying soy soy 25 dinars, and now 40, not to be the price of 80 dinar corn, and to be the price of 65 dinars and 70 dinars. I thought we were going to cooperate correctly, given that you've brought almost your entire team here. Mr. Minister, in my life I've been doing professional football and I've taken pictures with a lot of people, athletes, people in politics, etc. If there was anything true about what you said, the citizens of my municipality would probably know that the convictions, and since you brought this up today, otherwise I come from the municipality where the SRS won 48% in the last election, after this statement of yours, believe that we will cross 50%. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20700	Member of the 50th Amendment was submitted by MP Marina Ragush. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 50 of the amendment was submitted by the MEP, Ms Radet. Do you want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20701	Article 50 speaks of fines provided for in the amount of between 250,000 and 500,000 dinars for legal persons who, for example, do not notify the Ministry when importing, or exporting these genetically modified organisms, if they do not signify with the reading and the visible label of those products, do not provide data on the person, etc. You have not accepted this amendment, Mr. Minister, and you have accepted this amendment from the Committee on Agriculture. Interestingly, you wrote that you did not accept the amendment for the reason that the provisions of the bill must be respected. Mr. Minister, that's not true, because I was just telling you about Article 43, where you said they didn't have to be respected, but that they could be respected. So this argument is contrary to what you just did to Article 43. It's a bill of law. Mr. Minister, on behalf of the citizens of Serbia and on behalf of the SRS, I ask you best to act in accordance with your security, because you have shown that your conscience is going towards being an opponent of genetically modified products, withdraw this law, do not poison the people. We said and saved the soul, and you did as you please. One more thing, since I just saw that it was allowed, I will take the opportunity for the citizens of Zemun and the citizens of Vozhdovnik. Dear citizens of Zemun and Vozdovac, if anyone from the DS comes to you and tells you something, you take it as if he told you "we lie, we steal, we poison the people", and don't vote for DS.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20702	I'm not sure the citizens have sent us to parliament to send them these naked political messages, but it is a matter of assessing every MP. The 50th Amendment has been submitted by the People's... Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20703	I really only need one sentence, it refers to Rule 27, and I will not ask that in the voting day, parliament be declared whether you have violated the Rules of Procedure. I expect you'll admit it this time. The same, but from the point of view of the Democratic Party, and the message against the Serbian Radical Party was just sent by Srdjan Milivojevic and did not occur to you to warn him. I really don't understand why it bothers you if Serbian radicals speak to their voters, and you don't mind when others do it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20704	I simply commented that all messages from this guy, and Mr Milivojevic and yours, I'm not sure they're welcome to the citizens, they'll just judge us. Milovanovic submitted to the 50th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 50th Amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 50th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Suleiman Spaho. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Member of the 50th Amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Parliamentarian Filip Stojanovic submitted to Article 50 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 50th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Todorovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Marina Toman submitted to the title above article 51 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 51 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Škrbić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 51st Amendment was submitted by MP Ljubisa Petkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Parliamentarian Milan Avramovic submitted to Article 51 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Committee on Agriculture has submitted to Article 51 of the amendment. At the meeting of the Committee, the proposing representative accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so it became an integral part of the draft law. Member of the 51st amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Acimovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 51st Amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the head above Article 52, the People's MP, Milorad Buh, submitted to the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title of the head above article 52, the People's MP Elena Christmas-Talian submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 52 of the amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Vukicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the head above the 53rd amendment was submitted by MP Jadranko Vukovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 53rd amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Vukovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 53 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Veselinović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above the article 54th amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Lidija Dimitrijevic submitted to the 54th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MP Momcilo Duvnjak has submitted to the title above article 55 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 55th amendment was submitted by MP Branimir Djokic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed the examination of the Bill's proposal in particular, I find that the proposal's representative, Dr Saša Dragin, Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, wants the final word and I give him my word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20705	Dear People's MPs, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to take a brief look at the law that will ban the traffic of genetically modified organisms in Serbia. The essence of this law is that once and for all, it prohibits the commercial use of genetically modified organisms in Serbia, that there is no longer any way that in the fields of Swords, someone is going through farmers genetically modified soybeans, that it does not happen that they have damages, because they have to do it afterwards, that it does not happen that our children and your children eat food that they do not know what its origin is, in which way it is obtained and in which laboratory it is created. Today we heard I mean an extremely good discussion and other bill proposals. We tried to respect all amendments that were constructive and that contributed to the quality of the law. When we had reason to refuse the amendment, we wanted to make sure that the esteemed MPs received an adequate answer to why this amendment was not respected. However, I would only like to refer to one more thing in the end, and that is that several times – although you are witnessing that my whole team is with you today, as it was in previous days and as it will be until the end of the debate on this set of laws, there is, as you have seen, that we are trying to answer all the questions – it is respected that I do not respect the MPs. Once again, I apologize most kindly to all those who have gained such an impression and to say that at really no time has been my goal. The answers I gave were the answers that were realistic, for which I have the data, and I wanted this to be a professional discussion and that at no point was there a discussion that would deal with political populistism, rather than a professional part related to these laws that should bring improvement to the citizens of Serbia, and above all, Serbia's agriculture. For that reason, I regrettably wish to conclude that in the moments of discussion I did not receive the treatment I wanted to refer to certain MPs. After all, as we all know here, the transfers of the Assembly are public, the relationship of the Ministry of Agriculture and Parliament groups is available to citizens and they can judge for themselves who is and how he behaves, or how he conducts the discussion and how he addresses certain people, or those who are not here in the Assembly and cannot answer their words. For that reason, I'd like to thank you again. If at any point I had perhaps a rougher attitude, to apologize again, in any way I didn't want to offend anyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-26-0.u20706	Mr. Masic, you have no right anymore, almost, now only the proposing's representative has, we're at that stage. I'm sorry. I'm sorry, you can't get the word. I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. I thank you for your truly constructive and correct work today. We'll continue work tomorrow at 10:00. Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing the sixth session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009. Based on the official record, I find that 120 MPs attend the session. For the exact identification of the number of MPs present in the O.R., please insert identification cards into the MPs. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 87 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. more than a third and there are working conditions. I would like to inform you that the sittings have been prevented from attending the following MPs: Meho Omerović, Pastor Balint, Varga Laslo, Aleksandar Pejčić, Milan Lapčević, Mladen Grujic and Gordana Komic. According to Article 88(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, called for meetings with representatives of promoters Dr. Saša Dragina, Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, attended by Prof. Dr. Mirjana Milošević, Dr. Milan Petrović and Dragan Injac, State Secretary in the Ministry; Mr. Milan Stegić, Mr. Milos Milovanovic, Momcilo Mitreski and Slobodan Teofanov, Assistant Ministers at the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, then, Dusan Pajkić, Director of the General Inspectorate, Dr. Zoran Mićović, Director of the Veterinary Administration, Dr. Jan Bocanski, Director of Plant Protection and Dr. Saša Orlović, Director of the Forest Management at the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management. I welcome Mr. Minister and his associates. We move to the 14th point of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Reproductive Matter of the Woodland Tree (single) You have received amendments submitted at the bill by the MPs: Radiša Ilic, Milan Avramović, Boris Aleksic, Dragan Acimović, Elena Christmas-Talijan, Milorad Buha, Milan Veseinović, Lidija Vukićić, Jadranko Vuković, Slobodan Vuković, Jovan Damjanović, Lidija Dimitrijevic, Momcilo Duvnjak, Branimir Djokić, Srboljub Živanovic, Dragan Žitić, Vladan Jeremic, Natasa Jovanovic and Petar Jojić. You have received reports from the Committee on Agriculture and the Legislative Committee, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. The Legislative Committee, as incomplete, rejected MP Milan Avramovic's amendment to Article 2. Proposal for a law, and this amendment, in accordance with Article 148(3). The Rules of Procedure cannot be discussed. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Mr. Ilic, please.
