ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28528	The question is addressed to the Minister of Health and the Ministry of Health in general, and it says – where did one and a half billion euros in health go missing? There is no response from the relevant institutions, starting with the Ministry of Health and the Republic Health Insurance Institute, to these creators of the National Health Account. Health Minister Tomica Milosavljevic said in July this year that total health spending in Serbia is 8.2% of gross social product or 2.4 billion euros. This also stands as a data item of the National Health Account, which was also given to the World Health Organization. Republika Srpska Health Insurance Institute Director Svetlana Vukajlovic recently published a table with total spending in several countries, including Serbia, and cited the International Organisation for Economic Co-operation as a source, according to which Serbia spends only 6% of gross social product or 1.8 billion euros. The World Bank, however, said in its report that Serbia spends around 11% of GDP on health care, mostly in the region or 3.3 billion euros. With 1% of gross social product at 300m euros, it turns out that Serbia's health leaders' estimates differ by 600m euros, compared to the World Bank by 1.2m euros and 1.5 billion euros respectively. It is interesting that in a table published in the paper, the director of the Republic Health Insurance Institute cited the International Organisation for Economic Co-operation as a source, although they do not have such information for Serbia. A document allegedly containing statistics for our country does not contain data for Serbia at all. So where did one and a half billion euros in healthcare go?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28529	The word is Milica Vojic-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28530	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, my question is also addressed to Mr Tomica Milosavljevic, Minister of Health. During the last day, two very important things happened, if you followed what is happening in this field, which are related to health care. The first is that Belgrade's health secretary resigned because of disagreements with Minister Tomica Milosavljevic and about known corruption-related affairs in certain Belgrade clinics. The other thing, which is also important, which has significantly changed the picture and after which, of course, nothing will be the same in this area, is that in the Kragujevac Infectious Clinic, the consequences of and the serious complications caused by the Type A virus, the Mexican flu, the lady from the Kings died (I will not say her name on purpose), which she felt on September 29th, which, despite the doctor’s warning (I point out again – despite the doctor’s warning), for private reasons, refused to treat. So someone with symptoms can refuse treatment. This shows that the state of health is very serious. These two things may not have a relationship at first sight, but the truth is they're in a relationship. I have to ask the question -- how many Serbian health care, which has become encumbered in affairs and corruption, and in these corruption affairs, Mr. Minister and how much is there a place, can respond to the basic role, which is the health of Serbian citizens? With regard to what I've been saying in my second thesis, with the Mexican flu, a few things to the Serbian public are obviously not clear and familiar enough. That's why I need to get more information. The minister announced that vaccines against Mexican flu would be imported and gave priority to people receiving these vaccines. There are some studies that say that people who are regularly vaccinated make up 2% of the total number of new flu patients, which says vaccines are really necessary. But we don't know some basics. The first question is, where will the minister introduce these vaccines? Furthermore, can the minister guarantee the reliability of these vaccines? Because I have to comment that a big public debate has just opened in Germany about how reliable these vaccines are, do they need to be received and do they have to be received at all? The third basic question is, is Torlak in office and will the vaccines be brought from Torlak? If Torlak isn't in office, I'm asking the Minister of Health to answer my questions, which is why he's out of office. The conclusion that is very important right now in Serbia is that the Mexican flu is not a cause for panic, but is the reason for the seriousness in business and, above all, for the seriousness of the health minister. I can confidently say that I'm not sure the Minister of Health is ready for that role. So I ask him, since he answers this question, he can resign.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28531	The word is Mr Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28532	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on October 20th 2009, visiting Serbia was the president of the Russian Federation, Mr. Medvedev. The government of the Republic of Serbia has made sure that the visit among Serbian citizens is not welcomed, so it would appear that we have a better, more patriotic, if we had a government that is more focused on co-operation with the Russian Federation than this one. [[The President: Gentlemen of Parliament, please just a little silence, I really don't hear.]] It was also evident at the Belgrade Liberation Cemetery, where police prevented people who wanted to see the president of the Russian Federation at least to appear 300 metres away from Mr. Medvedev. It was obviously someone's goal for the Serbian people, not to show their love for the Russian Federation, and thus also for President Medvedev, who represents the Russian Federation. At the same time, the government of the Republic of Serbia has made a huge scandal, and you, in part, too, Mrs Dejanovic. The government of the Republic of Serbia has allowed the president of the Russian Federation and the president of Serbia to stand still, while the state secretary in the government of the Republic of Serbia signs an agreement with one of the ministers in the government of the Russian Federation. I ask Mr Cvetkovic – where is this Minister Dinkic? Did Mr Dinkic express his disagreement with co-operation with the Russian Federation, thus eliminating himself from the government of the Republic of Serbia, or might there be some other reason why Serbia was humiliated by allowing the secretary of state to sign contracts before the president of Serbia? On the side of that, Mrs Dejanovic, which you both made a rough mistake and presented your personal feelings as more important than the situation you were in, so by signing an agreement with Russian Duma's representative, you kissed the president of Serbia. It really looked like the move of a man who doesn't know what politics is, who doesn't know what Serbia is, who doesn't know where it belongs. Why don't you at least kiss the Russian president? They were both standing right there. Or why kiss the president of Serbia when you, as president of the National Assembly, sign an agreement with the Russian Dum? If Serbia had a better president and a better government, in front of this assembly, the moment Mr. Medvedev spoke to her, there should have been at least 100,000 citizens of Serbia. And it would have been if you hadn't stopped the citizens of Serbia from seeing at least the president of the Russian Federation. Just to let you know how pointless this all seemed, that god-awful concern for President Medvedev and the carrying out of the degree of his threat in Belgrade. After the academy at the Sava Centre, after leaving all of you, who accompanied the police and left that academy, ten more minutes, none of us pedestrians could have made it across any street in New Belgrade until some head of the police helicopter decided that everything was safe. So, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, you too took part in attempts by the government of the Republic of Serbia to minimise Serbia's attitude towards the Russian Federation and to make the visit look like a visit to the US vice president, who came in the way they came and went the way they left. I am expressing great dissatisfaction and I believe that all of you in the ruling coalition were not worthy of the great moment in which Serbia was on October 20th.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28533	Mr. Nikolic, the official assessment of President Medvedev and his impressions is more than favourable, unlike your grades here. Second, that kiss you were talking about wasn't the only one. On that occasion, all those who had a higher degree of intimacy needed to express it properly. I have a more intimate relationship with the president of our country, and I very much respect President Medvedev. In the end, I would like to thank the MPs for more than a dignified atmosphere in which we heard the message of President Medvedev. The word is made by MP Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28534	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will refer this question to the Ministry of Education - what will they do about the contest that came out of the Isaac Fund on September 30th, titled "Find out what NATO is in Prague and Brussels"? The contest was called for ten high school students from all over Serbia to spend two days in Brussels and three days in Prague to meet NATO and the Partnership for Peace programme, which is a member and the Republic of Serbia. They will be presented with all the details and reasons why the Czech Republic wanted to join NATO, the rights and obligations of members, as well as the reasons why Serbia should participate in NATO. The question arises whether it is possible for something like this to happen in Serbia. One foundation, and I'll explain to you after who these people are behind it, practically buys the souls of our youngest people, our high school kids, and tries to make them the same ones that are in the Isaac Fund. Practically, there are people who, when certain schools are finished, will come into a situation to lobby and to be representatives of NATO in Serbia. And the Ministry of Education is silent. Does the Ministry of Education have this program that they will see when they visit NATO? Will they possibly see all the footage from 1999, the rocketling of the bridge in Grdelica, the rocketling of refugee columns, the murder of little Milica Rakic, the demolition of hospitals, bridges, buildings, the destruction of Serbia? Will our high school students see it in Brussels and explain to them that it was only collateral damage, as Jamie Shane, a NATO spokesman, informed us at the time of the bombing of the SRJ? Something like this has to be prevented. The Ministry of Education must react and take care of where our students can go and which institutions they should go to. What's the Isaac Fund? They say it is an independent, non-profit and non-governmental trust of brains, registered as a Belgrade-based fund, and serves to improve European and Euro-Atlantic integration in Serbia. The goals are, I will give you only one, which I think is most important - to contribute to the transformation of Serbian society on its path to integration into Europe, the EU and NATO. But, ladies and gentlemen, the National Assembly has made a decision to make Serbia a neutral country. How can someone work against such a decision? When everything is looked at, what the Isaac Fund is doing, it is essentially a simple conclusion, that it is a kind of agent and a lobbyist NATO centre, whose basic activities are monitoring Russian-Serbian relations and minimising them. When you look at who they are who run this fund, then there's no wonder why they're doing this job. Pavle Jankovic, president of the Izak Fund, was before the foundation of the fund at the post of assistant defence policy minister, at the time of Minister Davinic. You remember those numerous affairs - "Pancer", "Satellite" etc. Otherwise, it is known that, while working at the Australian embassy, he was kicked out of the Australian embassy because they came to the irrefutable conclusion that he was a British spy.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28535	It's been five minutes. Thank you. Mrs. Susana Grubjesic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28536	I'm a little sorry Mr. Nikolic isn't here right now. He said a lot of things and left. I really don't doubt that...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28537	Excuse me, you have the right to request an explanation or a notice based on Article 235. There's no replica, if that's what you mean.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28538	Yes, I wanted to replicate.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28539	No, you can't. Thank you. Mr. Kenan Hajdarevic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28540	President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today is the 17th anniversary of the terrible crime in the village of Mioce, when 17 citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the citizens of the North and the municipality of Priboj were abducted and killed. Each of these 17 years has passed in the great suffering of families, the closest and fellow victims. No doubt, however, we did not do everything we could. In the long trial, only some were convicted of this terrible crime, while they were the most responsible and organisers remained out of the reach of justice. I ask the Government of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights to provide us with answers to questions – what have they done to meet their legal obligations and give adequate compensation to the families of the victims? According to this suffering and pain, but also to the city, the municipality and the country in which we live, we have a great obligation to finally clarify all the circumstances of this crime and find answers. This obligation is greater than a group of citizens, people or political parties. That's why I expect the authorities to deliver these answers to us.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28541	Thank you, Mr. Hajdarevich. Mrs Grubjesic, however, is asking for an explanation and notice.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28542	I'm looking for an explanation or a notice, whatever, from someone who's been making protocol for the Festival Academy at the Sava Center. I don't know how, but all the MPs didn't sit on the balcony. Some MPs managed to get down, so Tomislav Nikolic sat in the fourth row, among other things. Are we left on the balcony Members of the second row, and some have had the privilege of watching both President Medvedev and President Tadic in the fourth row?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28543	The assembly protocol was not in charge of this and cannot give an answer, but the issue will be forwarded. Mr. Vladan Batic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28544	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, of course the visit of the President of the Russian Federation is extremely important. Of course it's always good to have the support of some great force, which we've missed more or less in the past. Of course, good indications are intense economic co-operation. And of course we're exaggerating. If that visit is historic, we'll see when we pass the test of time. It depends on the effect of what has been announced. So I would ask the competent ministers -- for energy, finance and justice -- to explain some of the issues that reflect President Medvedev's visit, noting that it can be treated as the first visit to independent Serbia. In September 2001, Prime Minister Djindjic and President Kostunica visited Belgrade, and I had the honour of attending these talks, Vladimir Putin. You will admit that he is still the first figure of the Russian Federation, regardless of the nominal names of individual functions that some people perform. My questions are next. What about the South Stream pipeline, will it be built and when it will be built? Because experts say the job has nothing to do with it, because it costs 25 billion euros in the world economic crisis, that the entire Gazprom today is not worth so much and that it is all on a long stick and rope. Yes, the value of Gazprom is around 20 billion euros today. Furthermore, whether the price of gas for Serbian citizens, because winter, or heating season, is on the threshold this year will be at least at the level paid by citizens of neighbouring countries, because last year it was more expensive for Serbian citizens. These are specific things and specific questions. Third, what conditions did he get credit under? He was constantly mentioned as an aid, and credit is one commercial business, which implies certain conditions, so it would be good for Serbian citizens to know under what conditions the loan was won. Furthermore, how will the Russian Federation protect us when it comes to KIM's fate, with a reminder that the Russian contingent in KFOR left Kosovo first? I don't know how it defends Kosovo - on our behalf or in the name of 'Great Russia'? Will even when the people on Interpol's arrest warrants are extradited, and in Russia they will receive asylum, which is, you will admit, inappropriate with positions both domestic and international rights? When we get answers to these specific questions, then maybe that visit will be able to qualify as historical rather than pre-declarating some things as historical. I repeat, with the fact that the visit itself is really good and significant, because it is the president of a great world power.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28545	Thank you. Mr. Sasa Dujovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28546	The issue is for the Commission for the Succession of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. It is about citizens of the Republic of Serbia and our fellow citizens who are in the status of retired military persons whose property remains on the premises of the former republics of Yugoslavia. It's about three and a half thousand officers and officers who bought their apartments at the time of their service in the former republics of the SFRY and whose apartments they were taken from. Is the subject of a succession between now-independent states from the former Yugoslavia and the return of those apartments, or the property of these fellow citizens? Also, how could they solve their problem, because today they really live in inappropriate conditions?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28547	Thank you. Since none of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, answer for word, we continue to work. I would like to inform you that the sittings have been prevented from being attended by MPs Nikola Lazic and Nikola Krpic. I would like to inform you that I am in agreement with Article 88(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly called for the meetings, apart from the proposing representatives, to attend and receive. Dr. Predrag Tojic and Miodrag Jaksic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Diaspora, Aleksandra Kotic, Secretary of the Diaspora Ministry, Djordje Prstojevic and Vukman Krivokuća, assistant minister of diaspora. We move to the 9th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Diaspora and Serbs in the REGION (specificity) I would like to remind you that yesterday we interrupted the work in the search for an amendment that was submitted to the title above Article 3 and by Members of Parliament Donka Banović, Milica Vojić-Marković, Nikola Lazic and Željko Tomic, that National MP Milica Vojić-Marković, representative of the amendment, as well as that, according to Business, the MP Mirko Cikiriz reported. Is he here? It's not. The minister's in the building. He's on his way. He's on his way. Mr. Zoran Nikolic has a word, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28548	You know what, it's very important where the minister is. If the minister comes in now, then we can continue our work. If he's in the building, it doesn't mean anything at all. After the minister came in, there were conditions for us to continue our work, and I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28549	Good afternoon. We knew the minister was ten meters from our door and we had conditions to work. Otherwise, I'd take a little break if I had to. In the name of Chapter II. Over Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Do you want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Buha.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28550	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable citizens of Serbia, I have submitted an amendment on behalf of the SRS to Chapter II. above Article 4 and suggested that the head bear the term "Preservation, Strengthening and Realising the Connections of the Republic of Serbia and the Diaspora, as well as the Republic of Serbia and Serbs in the region". What is important is to stress that real, serious aid to diaspora and Serbs in the region is necessary to provide financial resources. We need to talk about what financial resources they are here and see how they are implemented in certain plans and programmes of the work of certain state institutions. In Serbia's budget, however, several state bodies receive, on various grounds, funds for certain issues related to co-operation with Serbs in the diaspora and Serbs in the region. The largest and most significant funds are received by the Ministry of Diaspora. They are small, we have already observed, but within these funds, the Ministry of Diaspora must find ways and opportunities to help through various aspects of cultural, sports and other co-operation. The culture ministry also receives funds and performs certain tasks in co-operation with the diaspora. I'm going to point out, by my and by the SRS's position, unintended use of funds. We have repeatedly objected and presented certain facts about it. It is the funds of the Refugee Commissioner, who has no legitimacy to carry out this type of co-operation, as done by the Foreign Ministry, the Ministry of Diaspora, the Ministry of Culture. First of all, no law allows him to do so. It is about the funds allocated to the Krajina Citizens' Associations for certain activities in the surrounding countries. I will give a concrete example, from this year, when about four and a half thousand Serbs went to the elections in Croatia. I also asked a parliamentary question: On the basis of whose decisions these activities are carried out, i.e. going to the elections in Croatia? From what budgets are these activities paid? How many buses are hired to go to elections in the Republic of Croatia? How many refugees went to the election? On the basis of what legislation have the funds for these purposes been provided, and from which economic classifications have the costs paid by the state authorities involved in the calls and eviction activities of refugees to the elections? What inspection carried out the control of the spent funds? Does the Republic's budget inspection exercise control over the use of these funds? What other state bodies were donors to these activities and with how much resources? The government has answered this parliamentary question. I will read just a few sentences from this answer: "The local elections in the Republic of Croatia were held on 7 May 2009. Representatives of the Association of Refugees in the Republic of Serbia and the Association of Refugee Associations have asked for assistance from citizens of the Republic of Croatia who came as refugees to the Republic of Serbia and want to exercise one of their fundamental rights, i.e. the right to vote. “ We have to comment on this. So, the initiative has come from, as it stands here in response, representatives of the Coalition and the Association of Refugees in the Republic of Serbia. I ask the question of Minister and Government - do we have a long-term strategy for the refugee Corps and do we know what we're going to do with the refugees? We don't. You can see that clearly from this answer. The initiative was submitted by the associations. Well, he can't take the initiative by association, especially not the refugee association. Why? Because it has to be a long-term policy of this country, because it's a population group of 500-600 thousand refugees who still have refugee status today, regardless of their integration and legal regulations. I must warn you of the 1949 International Convention on Refugees, which clearly defines refugee status. So until the refugee returns to his home country, he's a refugee. Here we've made one combination of integration and possible return, but basically -- he's a refugee. This country has left it to the associations to run that policy. And what do we get? To put pressure on certain state authorities in certain lobbyist circles in these associations, in this case, the Commissioner for Refugees, and then to carry out certain activities. There's no jurisdiction of the state authorities and we don't know what to do in that situation. That's why I asked the parliamentary question, which is the strategy. Why are we going there to the election? This must be a clear state strategy. The state must stand behind all this, and it must provide means to go there. In response, you further state: ''As no budget resources have been provided... '"We didn't plan the funds, there's no long-term strategy, we don't have a policy. Then there's a refugee association initiative, and then what do we do? Then let's define ourselves to help the refugees, to provide them with the funds. How do you provide them with funds? Let's go through the government, from the funds that are not foreseen (as it stands in response), but then find a way to find these funds in the current budget reserve and then, again, on the refugee association's initiative, according to their programme. And what's their program? Provide means to travel. That state makes more mistakes, more legislation breaks to meet them, because we don't have a long-term strategy. He says: "As no budget funds are provided, funds are provided from the current 2009 budget reserve, totaling 20 million dinars. “ These funds are said to be distributed in the following way, according to a contract of five million dinars, donations to NGOs of 15 million dinars. Without competition and without public procurement, funds are transferred. You can't do that, it's a direct violation of the Budgetary System Act. This is how you help refugee associations, but it's out of the legal framework. This is done on behalf of the Government and the Commissioner for Refugees. You directly violate the provisions of the Budgetary System Act. None of the direct and indirect beneficiaries of the budget can be spent without public procurement for purposes such as this. In 2005, when ten million dinars were spent, in 2006, eight million dinars, in 2007, four million dinars, in 2008, 12 million dinars, this year 15 million dinars, but it is possible that some activity will be distributed by the end of the year. It's a random use of funds, you can't do that. No money from the budget can be distributed from budget users without public procurement, without tendering. In a specific case, each of these organizations that received the funds hired a certain number of buses. For Benkovac, for example, cost 88,000, others hired them for 112,000, the third for 115,000. You can't do that. That's why I insisted here, knowing about these abuses before, to see if a republican budget inspection or some other inspection is controlling the use of these funds. No one's controlling it. He is also aware of the Commissioner for Refugees, and the Government is aware that this is a direct violation of the laws, but we continue to push. That's why I'm calling the minister. You have this jurisdiction. No one can go unorganised to a foreign country to the elections, regardless of the vital interest of the Serbian people to participate, etc. This is unorganized, this is an unintended use of funds, these are abuses, and you are directly involved in it. I'm calling on the current government to stop this. Furthermore, the intentional use of these funds is the task of the state. Every dollar in the country when it's spent, you have to know what purpose it's spent on. This is how you help your pets, your lobbyists, who allow you certain things on the ground, but it can't, it's abuse of rights. I took advantage of the MP's time group.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28551	Thank you. Mr. Secretary has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28552	It's just for the public to say, respecting all this stuff you've been talking about. The activities you have been talking about are not in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Diaspora, and in this context I cannot answer this question.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28553	The word is Mr. Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28554	Honored presidents, respected presidency, respected MPs, Mr. Buha has opened the topic of the latest local elections in the Republic of Croatia by asking questions why the state of Serbia has helped the Serbs to join the Republic of Croatia and vote in those elections, held in May of this year. And Mr. Buha himself said, that's the answer he got from the Ministry, that the initiative to go to the elections was given by refugee associations. I would remind you that it is over a hundred refugee associations from Croatia, both large groups of associations -- both the Association and the Coalition. So it was a unanimous assessment that the elections should be held. Why? First of all, because it is local elections and what these people, who have avoided from that space, have realized that, through the selection of local leadership, in which, to remind myself, very often, obstructions occur when it comes to the achievement of basic and elementary human rights, it is very important and significant who will be sitting in the local parliament in Benkovec, Knin, Gracac, Donji Lapca, etc., not to count. So they estimate that they should go out and choose their representatives there. One responsible state, such as Serbia, has finally heard the voice of these associations, these evasive people, and in the most legitimate way possible helped them to make the elections. Over 90% of the funds you're talking about have been spent on paying bus fares. To remind you, this transport was implemented by Lasta. So there was no possibility that, through what you mentioned, transportation by some private companies and unidentified carriers would be some kind of machinations. As far as I know, Lasta's offer was more than correct and they thus gave their support to the action. To remind me that media support for the action, at the request of refugee associations, has also given media houses such as RTS, TV Vojvodina and all others, where they have urged people through refugee associations to go to these elections. I should also say that those elections did not go to only four or five thousand people, as you say, who drove at the state cost, but also went to the polls about 10,000 Serb refugees living in Serbia, but they transported at their expense. People who had opportunities decided to use their electoral right in this way. In this way they helped themselves and people who wanted to return or who wanted to achieve some of their property, status and other rights (you know very well what are all the rights that are taken away from Serbs in Croatia). Most importantly, they thus helped people living downstairs to choose power, so that after these elections in the Republic of Croatia in 14 municipalities and towns in Croatia Serbs have absolute authority in the sense that they can educate their own administrations in cities, municipalities, to elect mayors. I remind you that this year, the mayors were elected directly. I expected, in a way, if this issue of the Diaspora Law and Serbs in the region had already been opened, that you too would support this, for the first time transparently organised, action in achieving basic and elemental human rights, the right to vote. If we can't help refugees from Croatia financially enough, we can't solve everyone's roof issue and some other issues, such as employment, we can do so much to enable them to exercise a fundamental right – the right to vote in the country's elections for which they have an interest, because that's where they come from and exercise a number of rights there. Whom they would vote for, that was their right. No one suggested to them in that sense. After all, they're conscious enough. I think that the state of Serbia has interfered too much in this matter in some earlier periods. They can think for themselves now and know who they should vote for to protect their interests. This is a very difficult and painful question and I think we should all work together on this plan and not involve too many party interests. The issue is one of the crucial issues and one of the priorities of the Serbian state to protect Serbs living outside Serbia's borders, and in particular this concerns the Republic of Croatia, in which, unfortunately, numerous rights are still inaccessible to Serbs.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28555	Mr. Martinovic and Mr. Buha, within the time of the parliamentary group, since there are no elements for replication. Mr. Martinovic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28556	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I didn't mean to report on this amendment, but here I am intrigued by this discussion by Mr. Janko Veseinovic. Mr. Veselinović, you may be a well-intentioned man, but you obviously do not have accurate information about what was going on in the last local elections in Croatia. You mentioned that there are over a hundred refugee associations. Just tell us how many of these associations have members. He's got a very small number of members. Not every association can be equally legitimate to the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia -- an association that has five members with all the president and his wife and that association that counts thousands of members. Secondly, it is absolutely incorrect that Serbs could freely vote in the local elections in Croatia. No, they're not. Before the bus with Serbs came to the city where they should vote, political party activists, representatives of the state authorities of Croatia, and issued orders for whom to vote in half-scared Serbs. It is a shame, Mr. Veselinovic, that the state of Serbia helped the Serbs go to the local elections in Croatia, and then voted there for HDZ candidates, who expelled them from their centuries-old hearths from 1991 to 1995. And then you say -- well, these local elections allowed Serbs in Croatia to protect their rights. Who? HDZ to protect their rights? The same party that banished them. So, there was an unprecedented manipulation of Serbs, and instead of the state of Serbia and the competent ministries drawing attention to the Serbs that awaits them in Croatia, you organisedly send exiled Serbs, not only from Croatia but also from Republika Srpska, to vote for candidates of the party that committed genocide, i.e. continued with the genocide policy of the Ustasha regime from World War II. If that's the way to protect the rights of Serbs in Croatia, then please, don't protect them anymore, because HDZ is the last party in this world that can do something for expelled Serbs.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28557	Mr. Milorad Buha has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28558	When we talk about going to the elections in Croatia, the minister said it is being built on everything, that he did not participate in these allocation activities. Minister, you must participate. You have legal authority. No one else, according to the laws of the Republic of Serbia, has those rights, only you. But unfortunately, we do not have a long-term strategy of what and how to do, related specifically to the elections in Croatia. Why are we going there? Who's organizing it? All costs resulting from departure and preparation, etc.? We don't have all that. That's why this activity that I'm pointing to clearly speaks to refugees. Neglect comes from the state authorities, because the state authorities don't have a strategy. If they had a strategy, they would have planned – the 2008 elections are in Croatia, so we have to provide certain funds. Who gets the funds? He's getting the Diaspora Ministry, not the Refugee Commissioner. The refugee commissioner has nothing to do with this. But when lobbying circles in associations squeeze us with certain demands and personal interests, then the government comes out of the current reserve, non-intentional, let's push some resources. How much is that? That's it. This must be planned in the previous year to enter the budget, to be a public procurement for all costs paid on that basis and to legalise it. This isn't legal. That's what we said in 2005, 2006 and today, so you'll do it next year. What our strategy is during the elections in Croatia, it must be a state mission towards the refugee Corps. Do we have it? We don't. We pick people up, put them on buses, and then abuse them. Everyone looks at themselves in their neighborhood, in their village, in their municipality, and then says – we are better off there with the Croats, this one from HDZ will help more than a Serb, etc. That's the kind of thing that happened. We know this, who are involved in political life and, with all the other refugees, we know what they were experiencing there. In particular, we round up in Knin and accept the mayor who is from HDZ because he will help us more and we will have to the mayor of a Serb, and through him we will... Those are facts, and we can't run from it. Just because we don't have a strategy, we don't know what to do with them, and we mustn't blame the Croats, because it will endanger their efforts to join the EU and ours. We will violate regional co-operation, which is an important, most important condition for both countries' entry into the EU.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28559	Mr. Janko Veselinović has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28560	Let me just say a few facts that are important to clarify certain issues about who invited Serbs to go to the elections and vote in the local elections in Croatia. They were invited by all the relevant associations representing them, over a hundred associations. Among them are those with a larger and smaller number of members, but among these hundreds of associations are all relevant associations representing Serbs from Croatia. So much for who's behind it. And no other position on relevant associations has appeared in the press before the elections were held. Whoever got into those buses and shared propaganda material, I'm not sure, but I'm sure the Serbs from Croatia didn't go to vote for HDZ in those elections and you're very insulting people who, I agree with you, may have suffered the greatest consequences of the HDZ regime. But in these 14 municipalities, in which they went to vote, it's not the HDZ, but some Serbian parties, Mr Martinovic. In the end, I'd say something you know best. The Serbs from Croatia thanked you for their current protection of their interests in such a way that even in places where they make up almost 100% of the voters vote for you so that you have barely crossed the censorship, while DS, who, as in power in recent years, has advocated resolving the issue of Serbs from Croatia, wins in those places, Mr Martinovic. Well, take the last example of Wrabbas.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28561	Mr. Alexander Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28562	Mr. Veseinovic, as DS wins the Vrbas elections and other local elections, you can ask your party activists in these municipalities. Trucks, bulldozers, packages, money done -- that's the way you win local elections. If you didn't have a state budget, if you didn't have the AP Vojvodina budget, if you weren't at your disposal with that famous Capital Investment Fund AP Vojvodina, the question is, would you win anywhere? Don't manipulate that people. You are now dividing by the Vojvodina building material in such an impregnable way that it really exceeds every possible measure. A refugee who has a child with asthma can't get construction material to start construction, and someone who has two houses gets construction material to install Italian ceramics. And you say that's fair. In each municipality you found, along with so many hundreds and thousands of refugees, that you shared building material to the extent that only six people could get it. Then there's evil blood being created between these people and then people who have nothing to hate each other. That's how you win the election. The election, Mr. Vesenovic, in Serbia is no longer a political party match with the political party. This isn't a game of programs and ideologies anymore. This is a game of parties that are not in power with state, economic and financial machinery. If anywhere in the EU, in a civilized and democratic world, you find someone so abuses state power in local elections, tell me where they have it, so I can learn something from you. And it is absolutely true that Serbs voted for HDZ candidates and that Croatians entered buses with Serbian refugees and did not share propaganda material, but issued orders, gave the name and name of candidates for whom Serbs would vote. As for Serbian parties in Croatia, Mr. Veselinovic, I don't know if you know, there were two Serbs sitting in the government of Ante Pavelic. The commander of Croatia's head office was General Djordje Grujic, a Serb. If you convince me that these Serbs in Pavelic's government have done something very good for Serbs in the frameworks of so-called "Serbs". Independent countries of Croatia, tell me so I can learn something from you. But they didn't do anything. Even those who now kiss the laps of Stjepan Mesic and by yesterday, Eve Sanader did nothing for the Serbs in Croatia.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28563	It's been three minutes, replica time. Gentlemen, allow me to inform you that members of the Committee on Gender Equality have a session now at 11.00 p.m. I'd like to ask the heads of parliament to come to the O.R. at half past 12 for an appointment on the next session. I also inform you that, in accordance with this, we will apply Article 31, and we will move on to the work of amendments. On behalf of Chapter II above Article 4, the title above Articles 4 and 4 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Aleksandra Jankovic. You have your word, Mrs. Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28564	The name of the head, according to this amendment, should change and read 'II. Preserving, strengthening and achieving ties between the Republic of Serbia and the diaspora as well as the Republic of Serbia and Serbs in the region'. The words'home states' are replaced by the words 'Republic of Serbia'. In Article 4 paragraph 1, point 1), the words "and the rights of the constituent peoples" are added after the words "the protection of minorities". Also, in Article 4(2), the words "Serbian national interest" are added after the words "preservation". The state of Serbia has an obligation to take care of Serbs outside Serbia and protect their rights where there are minorities, especially where their rights as a constituent people have been lifted. I will refer to my denominator Mr Martinovic's presentation, citing the most important issues that the Republic of Serbia, as the country of origin of Serbs from Croatia, must launch through the government and the Serbian Parliament before the EU and the UN. I have already repeatedly quoted the study of Borislav Mikelic, former Prime Minister of Republika Srpska, who in January 2009 made an analysis of the situation, and I have actually drawn out issues that are most important and which must be asked if we really want to protect the interests of Serbs from Croatia, or Krajina, because without a solution to these issues there should be no Croatia's entry into the EU. The most important issue relating to Serbs from Croatia, i.e. from Krajina, is certainly the return of the taken-off historical rights of Serbs in Croatia, which is the status of a constitutional and governmental people who, in all of Croatia's adopted constitutions after World War II, had that right taken away by the end of 1990 in the Croatian Parliament by violent political means, by the system 'one man - one voice'. So, Majorisation at the request of HDZ authorities, whose programme was based on the ideology of NDH Ante Pavelic. Immediately thereafter, the return of the historic rights of Serbs in Croatia also includes the exercise of the rights of the Krajina Serbs to political autonomy for the Western parts of the Krajina, where Serbs have been a majority people for centuries and from where they were expelled by military aggression in 1995. Another particularly important issue for the refugees and exiled Serbs from Croatia, or Krajina, is the return of private property that was robbed and destroyed by Croatian soldiers during and after the military operations "Blash" and "Storm" in 1995. Of course, it is also necessary to fight for the return of tenant rights to refugees from the urban centres of Croatia, and it is known that there are 50,000 apartments that Serbs had to leave in 1991, following the outbreak of the civil war in Croatia and after "Bleska" and "Storm". The third very important issue, related again to a significant number of refugees and exiled Krajina Serbs, is that it should follow the request of our country of origin and the International Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg to put aside all the rulings of the Croatian judicial authorities on the basis of which several thousand Krajina Serbs were tried in absentia in the period from 1991 to 2000 on the basis of political orders from the HDZ top, with no material evidence. Based on these judgments by the Croatian judicial authorities, around 960 Krajina Serbs are on international Interpol arrest warrants today, which, if they go to third countries, will be arrested or found in Croatian prisons. Fourthly, it is also important that the issue of our country of origin, via the International Court of Justice in The Hague or the EU, or the International Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg, be bound by the judicial authorities in Croatia to carry out justice without the number of Croatian soldiers and their employers who, in the period from 1991 to end with "Bleska" and "Storm" committed terrible crimes against Serbs in Croatia, i.e. Krajina during the civil war in Croatia. No single reason for our country of origin is for Serbia to be courted or protected through diplomatic activity by the Croatian state, which declared its independence in 1991 thanks, firstly, to the removal of Serbs as constituent people from the Constitution of Croatia, in order to later stage a civil war with the Krajina Serbs and declared independence on June 25th 1991, and through military operations "Blesk" and "Storm" in 1995, 250,000 Krajina Serbs were expelled from the centuries-old hearths. All of this, to remind you, after Albanian separatists declared Kosovo's independence on February 17th 2008 and thus practically struck the biggest blow to Serbia's territorial integrity throughout its history, Croatia was among the first countries in the world to recognise that independence and thus join those countries that trample international rights without respecting Serbia's territorial integrity. So we have every right to get answers to the questions I have raised, because this should ultimately be a condition for Croatia's entry into the EU.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28565	Thank you. On the title above Articles 4 and 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. The government and the Committee on Relations with Serbs outside Serbia have not accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28566	Ladies and gentlemen, in all the places in this bill where the term "parent state" has been used, we in the SRS have submitted amendments that we propose to replace it with the term "Republic of Serbia". The Republic of Serbia is the country of origin of the Serbian people, but it is not the only one. The ethnic states of the Serb people are also Montenegro, Bosnia and Herzegovina and Croatia. When you claim that only Serbia is the home state of the Serbian people, and yet you introduce it into the law, you ignore the facts, audit history and cause enormous damage to the Serbian people, its national and state interests, and in particular the interests of Serbs outside Serbia, which I assume is why this law is being passed. I will now list several facts in favour of the claim that Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatia and Montenegro are the country of origin of the Serbian people. The history of Serbian statehood in Bosnia and Herzegovina, I think of Hercegovina, is several centuries older than Serbia's Germanic. Since there have been written clues, Serbs have been the absolute majority of BiH's population. This is confirmed by all censuses from the Turkish country to the end of the 20th century. Even after World War II and the terrible crime of genocide committed against Serbs by Croats and Muslims, in which more than half a million were killed and several hundred thousand Serbs were evicted from Croatia, even after colonisation committed after World War II, where several hundred thousand people, Serbs from Croatia and BiH, were evicted to Vojvodina, the Serbs remained an absolute majority of the population in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Only in the 1970s, when communists invented a Muslim nation to break up the Serbian nation, Serbs stopped being the absolute majority of BiH's population, but remained the most numerous ethnic group in the republic. I am convinced that most Serbian lawmakers and citizens do not know the fact that at the end of the 18th century more Serbs lived in Bosnia than Belgrade. The percentage of people with Serbian and southern Slovenian backgrounds is higher in BiH than in Serbia. The whole of Bosnia and Herzegovina speaks Serbian, writes in Serbian Cyrillic or Latin. More than 2/3 of BiH's territory is in Serbian private ownership, based on catastra data. When I say it, I mean the Serbs who say it like that. However, I hope I don't have to explain to you, historical facts unquestionably suggest that most BiH residents are Croatian and Muslim nationalities of Serbian ethnic origin. It is the Serbs of Orthodox, Serbs of Islamic and Serbian Roman Catholic faith -- one nation that the Turks, the Vatican and the communists divided into three peoples and bled each other. Serbs, as an indigenous people in BiH, also confirmed themselves in two major wars, in 1941 and 1991, when they managed to preserve their legal status, when they managed to defend their freedom and defend most of Serbian ethnic territories. I remind you that Serbs were a constituent people in BiH when this existed in the Yugoslavia as a socialist republic. And according to the current BiH Constitution, Serbs are the constituent people in BiH and BiH is their country of origin. And according to the Dayton International Agreement, which rests today in BiH, Serbs are an indigenous people and BiH is their home country. There is a similar situation in Croatia. Despite the crimes of genocide and three crimes of ethnic cleansing, the first from 1941 to 1945, who committed Ustashas and Nazis, the second after World War II, who committed the communist colonisation of Serbs from Croatia to Vojvodina and the third from 1991 to 1995, ethnic Serbs, Serbs, originating in Croatia, continue to make up the majority of the population. So that I don't bother you with historical facts, I'll only give you two information. I will first specify the names of the Croatian rulers of the 8th century: Vladislav, Mislav, Trpimir, Inoslav, Zdeslav, Branimir, Mutimir, Tomislav, Krešimir, Miroslav, Trposlav and Petar. As you can see, it's mostly Serbian names. I will now specify the names, 12 centuries later, commanders of the Croatian Defence Council in the last war in BiH: Slobodan, Tihomir, Zivko and Milivo. There are no names that are not Serbian. I remind you that Croatia also speaks Serbian. Until 1991 and the anti-constitutional changes carried out by Franjo Tudjman's regime, Serbs were the constituent people in Croatia. And today, after all the crimes committed, all the crimes of ethnic cleansing, more than one third of Croatia's catastrian territory belongs to the Serb population. As for Montenegro, I hope no one should be explained that Montenegrins are Serbs, that Petar Petrovic is a Serbian writer, who wrote everything he wrote in Serbian and Cyrillic. I hope I don't have to explain that the monastery of Ostrog is a Serbian monastery, that St. Vasilija is an Ostroski svetnik and a gustle is a Serbian national instrument. In addition to all these facts, you suggest that we accept that only Serbia is the country of origin of the Serbian people and ask that we introduce it into the law. If we do so, we deny the autonomy of the Serbian people in BiH, Croatia and Montenegro. We give rights to Croats, Muslims and all who claim that Serbs in Croatia and BiH in the last war have committed aggression on their grandfatherland, on their homeland. You give the right to those who claim that Serbs in BiH and Croatia are coming. You are giving the right to Judge Branko Milanovic of Gospić, who has sentenced Serbia's Svetozar Karan from Korenica to 14 years of imprisonment with the following explanation: It is obvious that the defendant Karan has returned to Croatia because he realized that Croatia is in such a state that it will quickly and simply disappear from the stage of the world, because the Croats are dissatisfied with their status, and there may be such disagreement between them that he will again ask someone to sit on their backs again, as it has been 900 years, and in the last 80 years, they have been accused and his ancestors. Now all those criminals who committed genocide against the Croats, not only in this war but together with the others, have been doing it for 500 years, since the arrival of Osmanli, when they came and destroyed the Croats along with the Ottomans, and since they had joined these parts of Yugoslavia, have practically destroyed them in certain areas. Now they want to take over where Osmanlia came from. Ladies and gentlemen, by adopting this law, you give the right to Croatian President Stjepan Mesic, who in 1991, at the beginning of the war in Croatia, at the beginning of the crime against peace committed by Croatia against international law, urged Serbs to leave Croatia, return to Serbia and carry with them the dust that they and their ancestors brought to Croatia on their papans.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28567	Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Relations with Serbs outside Serbia tabled an amendment to Article 4. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Rade. The government and the Committee on Relations with Serbs outside Serbia have not accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs Donka Banović and Nikola Lazic. The government and the Committee on Relations with Serbs outside Serbia have not accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Donka Banović.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28568	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The DSS MPs submitted an amendment to the position of 1st member, which reads: "1) by improving the situation and protecting the rights and interests of members of the diaspora and Serbs in the region by concluding bilateral and multilateral international agreements on the protection of minorities... “ It’s just a matter of time before I go home. ” Our amendment consists of adding after the words "about protecting minorities" "in those countries where Serbs have national minority status". That is precisely why my colleagues spoke before me, which is that Serbs live in several of their countries in the Balkans and that in these countries the Serb people cannot possibly be a national minority. One way to fix this unfortunate formulation was to accept this amendment. Another way to fix this would have been if you had accepted the amendment of the Committee on Serbs outside Serbia. With the amendment, they suggest that you simply delete the words “the agreement on the protection of minorities. ” I really don't understand why, when several parliamentary groups responded to this unfortunate formulation and when even the Assembly Committee dealing with this problem, and there are 25 MPs on that committee, it also noticed that this is a very poorly engaged position, you did not accept one of these amendments, when Serbs in the Balkan states are not a national minority but a constituent people.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28569	The 4th amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. The government and the Committee on Relations with Serbs outside Serbia have not accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28570	Article 4 is dedicated to preserving, strengthening and achieving ties between the mother country and the diaspora, as well as to the countries of origin and Serbs in the region, so in five points, the government proposes how this can be achieved. I have submitted an amendment concerning point 2), where it is said that our goals should be achieved by using, learning, preserving and caring Serbian and Cyrillic letters, keeping and caring for Serbian, you say - traditional, and I demand that it be 'national', cultural, ethnic, linguistic and religious identity. Someone might think it's a linguistic thing, but it's not. And that is what you assure me when, in an explanation of why you do not accept the amendment, you say that adding the term "national" in the text of the bill is unnecessary and that it would burden the text in a legal editorial sense for reasons of being cultural, ethnic, linguistic and religious identity of segments of the common national identity of a nation, including Serbian. And that's exactly what I'm saying. So "national" includes both linguistic and religious and ethnic and cultural identities, not traditional. And that's why I'm asking that this intervention be carried out, and I think that you could have, except that you're really avoiding saying 'State of Serbia', you're avoiding saying 'national', like it's in a negative context interpreted, so you're looking for an alternative. That seems to me the only reason why you keep here is the term of traditional, cultural, ethnic, linguistic and religious identity. We, of course, have both national and economic interest to establish a closer and more quality relationship and co-operation with our diaspora, which of course has different problems, which we need to separate and strictly specify which are in relation to those in our immediate environment and which are related to some quite other problems. There is also an indisputable fact that we also have an economic interest in co-operation with our diaspora and that this diaspora is helping the state of Serbia by its overall participation in the pumping of money coming from abroad about five billion euros, according to statistics, but we have not passed any laws of economic nature that would treat this problem and give them some benefits regarding their potential investments in Serbia. This may have to be found somewhere among these five points or at some sixth point, to show them that their capital has an advantage over others, which is of course always on interest and which is more unfavourable.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28571	Members of the 4th amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Nikolic. The government and the Committee on Relations for Serbs outside Serbia have not accepted the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28572	I have submitted an amendment to Article 4 which, under the form of preservation, strengthening and realization of the ties between the mother country and the diaspora, provides for in point 4) of the diaspora Assembly. As you know, we have pointed out in principle, we are opposed to the Parliament of the Diaspora, primarily because of the way it is formed, and as much as it is methodological and organisationally controversial, it also shows the proposal of the Ministry and the Government of the Republic of Serbia to put into the assembly procedure a law that implies the formation of the Diaspora Assembly without knowing what its mandate is or what is the choice of delegates. I repeat again, this law and the Parliament of the Diaspora are in the position of party abuse of diaspora and of trying to save the rating of the organisational structures of a particular party holding this ministry and keeping it under the control of the diaspora. I'm asking a question here, and I'm going to use the discussion on this amendment. We will also be faced with the law on the National Assembly and the election of MPs, and that law will also require, for example, the opinion of the Venice Commission, so it is possible that this state will send signals to the Venice Commission that we need to have representatives of the diaspora in parliament. Personally, I'm neither near nor far from that idea. I am that diaspora participates in the Serbian parliament, but in an orderly manner. Is this preparation to be made through party control and the diaspora Assembly, to be appointed by this ministry... and there is no counterargumentation that representatives of Estonia, Lithuania, Poland, the Czech Republic, Slovakia will be elected to some forum. No, because the names of these people are in drawers and they will be placed. But if this thing is deepened to the extent that, let's say, in this House there are five MPs from the diaspora, that this is exactly the transitional stage, to make it a matter of one party's will, and not by the will of the citizens and the willless diaspora, there are people here who will be representatives of not diaspora and citizens living outside the country of origin, but representatives of a particular party, it is problematic. In Serbia, as is the current state of play, there is no two-thirds or easy majority of a particular political group now in power. She's very thin and uncertain. We can thus be in a position to have a number of members of the diaspora under the control of a particular party affecting the most important policy of this country. Behind the diaspora assembly is potentially a major fraud and abuse of the will of Serbian citizens, as well as citizens living in the diaspora, and our next amendments are heading in that direction. You are not in the principle debate, nor can you make the right arguments regarding the Diaspora Assembly. It is disputed by many elements – how it will be formed, whether the legitimacy of delegates in the Assembly will be identical. He simply can't be, because you say you'll let these organizations decide how to choose themselves. It's not the same situation in the diaspora in America and Canada and Australia, and in the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Estonia, Lithuania or where you predicted, in the African countries, in the South African Republic, in the Congo, I already have no idea where. With these amendments, we have tried to do you a favor and contribute to deepening links or setting these links in the right way between the queen and the diaspora. This is the politicization of the diaspora and you draw the diaspora into the political differences and conflicts that exist in this country. Unfortunately, there is no political unity in the country on the most important state and national issues. By the way of this law and by forming this diaspora assembly, this will be passed on to the diaspora. It is not a duty, not a obligation of the mother country, but a duty and obligation of the mother country, in the extreme line, should be to deprive its diaspora of interparty and political disputes. And you will do exactly the opposite with this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28573	Here you go, Mr. Lucky.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28574	If I have to, I'll do it ten times. It's no problem. I'll do it a hundred times. Here, I will read to the honourable MP: "The bearer of the new policy institutions will be the Parliament of the diaspora and Serbs in the region, which will be a symbol of the unity of the state and the people. The proposal is for the Assembly to be one and unique, because it is an intensity to be a manifestation of our national and national maturity and responsibility. The assembly will meet once a year and make strategic decisions, which will be carried out operationally by the Diaspora Council, the Council for Serbs in the region and representatives of the executive government, so all the authorities authorised to participate in this policy." One more thing to be clear, no matter how many times you repeat it - there is no politics and daily politics. The terms and conditions of the election of delegates, so the representatives of the diaspora and Serbs in the region in the Diaspora Assembly and Serbs in the region will be determined by the diaspora organisation, as well as by the Serb organisations in the region, and the country of origin will in no way interfere in the process and conditions of the election of delegates in the Assembly, which is clearly specified in the law and can be seen and read by anyone who wants to. The power of the assembly, among other things, gives the fact that the delegates of the diaspora and Serbs in the region will have the opportunity to address specific problems in direct contact with the entire state summit, including the president of the Republic. I'm not going back to this topic today, in this discussion, because I've said this many times. Unfortunately, it seems like you don't want to read the law and it's my responsibility, I'm saying this for the public, let me say it one more time. I promise I won't take any more valuable time on this same subject, no matter how many times you repeat what the law doesn't say.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28575	MP Zoran Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28576	I've read the reason for this law. I didn't ask you to read it to me for the tenth time. I asked you to give me the answers to the questions I asked. I ask the following question – what if organisations cannot agree and cannot come up with a single proposal? What if two organizations in Hungary cannot agree who will be a delegate in the Diaspora Assembly? Then who's arbitration? Then who makes the final decision? Or we'll have a diaspora assembly in the back -- somewhere Serbs will be able to agree, somewhere they won't. What if this procedure is not in line with democratic traditions, so we have a huge number of organizations inside the United States, which is not satisfied with its delegate and which will challenge his legitimacy? These are the problems that open up this law. How seriously you prepared this law says that you did not determine the duration of the Assembly’s term of office, but only according to the amendments submitted by the opposition did you iron the thing a little bit, or correct it. That's what this is about. Answer my specific questions. What it says here in the explanation is a pamphlet that can be used in an election campaign. I ask you specific questions, Minister, for concrete answers. You're bound to give them here. Since you cannot give them, it is clear that there is a political will behind it that you are politically controlling the diaspora Assembly. You can't convince me that a delegate covering Estonia, Lithuania, Poland and I don't know which countries, will be elected based on what organizations. Well, you guys already have those people. Not to mention how serious your bill was when it says 44 delegates, and when you add all the representatives, it counts 45, so it had to be amended later. So to this end, it is evident that you have not come to this problem in a studio and responsible manner. I insist on answering - what if Serbian organisations cannot agree if they cannot find a common candidate? Do you realize how much division in the Serbian diaspora can cause? We, unfortunately, also have various Serbian organisations and a large number of Serbian organisations in countries where our diaspora is numerous. Well, they're no different from us. They should have received from us a new vision of Serbian unity, country of origin and diaspora, not that the political divisions that exist in the country should also be passed on to the diaspora, and we should add to the divisions that otherwise exist in the Serbian diaspora. So it's clear that you want political control. Answer, if you can, this question.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28577	According to this article, MP Tomislav Nikolic appeared. Here you go, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28578	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are a strange country when a whole political party rules Serbia and stands in the presentation of one ministry in the Republika Srpska Assembly. So your wish is clear. It is true that the diaspora is owned by every authority, from the Socialist authorities to today, but in 2000, in the elections in September you deceived the diaspora (not you, but DOS) since an agreement was reached with Vojislav Kostunica and other DOS representatives to be the minister of diaspora. As then, so now. All your relationship with the diaspora is based on diaspora delusions and counting the money that comes for family members from our people working abroad. The mother state -- it was really hard to find the right concept. What about the Bosnian Serbs? Now Serbia's got them, like a country of origin? How will the Serbs from Croatia say - our country of origin is Serbia? Everyone will be able to tell them -- not true, for centuries your ancestors lived in Bosnia, for centuries your ancestors lived in Montenegro and your country of origin is not Serbia; this is now Serbia owns you and thus admits that you did not have the right to have a country that drove you away or that broke away from Yugoslavia or which is now called otherwise, you consider your country. What about Muslims in Serbia? Where's their home country? Who's going to take care of the Muslims who moved out of New Pazar to work in Germany? Who predicted these Serbian citizens to provide them with some kind of protection? And this smile with the Assembly is extra. This is where you deceived us, Mr. Minister, because you say the orders of the Assembly will be carried out by the Diaspora Council. The president of the Republic of Serbia will perform the tasks of some assembly that is not in the Constitution, some assembly for which elections are not held. Well, he's an independent government. He symbolizes executive power. How will the congregation give him orders? Of course you can't establish these congregations or you'll forge elections. Of course none of you have wanted to allow these people to vote for the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia since 2001. The fabrication by voting in embassies and consulates serves to get another five or six hundred votes abroad, while small foreigners send young ladies and young boys on their way to America to watch the election, to keep the election regular. As long as you don't get them to vote out of the house, as they vote in America for the American president, I won't believe that you expect the diaspora to affect events in Serbia. And you like billions of dollars coming from the diaspora. That's more like it than anything. So you're removing the diaspora from political decision-making in Serbia. You're making a ghetto. The ghetto diaspora is the diaspora Assembly, which will meet, which will decide... What do you want him to decide? How to spend the money that gets separated for the diaspora. They'll probably have some budget, so the budget of the assembly, so the budget for the journey of these delegates across the units they've been selected from. And then you say, "The council, then the whole government." And then the other council -- "Government." Where are your representatives of the opposition? Where are the representatives of the Church? Where are the representatives of science and art? Who cares about the diaspora - ministers? They don't care about us here either. They take care of themselves. That's what the law looks like. Of course, I'm not saying that the Balkans are only inhabited by Serbs and Croats. Because historical facts say completely different. They talk about different Slovenian tribes that settled in different areas. They kept their name somewhere, and they changed it completely, so they even had names in line with the toponyms in the area they settled in. I do not deny the existence of the Slovenian state of Quarantine, do not deny the existence of the Macedonian state, I do not deny that the Slovenians went to Bulgaria. And they weren't Serbs, because there were at least 15 tribes that came across the lower Danube, the one in which we are now. The easiest thing to do is to simplify the story to Serbs and Croats, to two tribes mostly quarreled, and to forget at least 20 Slovenian tribes who had won almost all of Greece at one time. But there should be read not only Byzantine sources, which are not reliable when identifying these Slovenian Avarian tribes. There should also be read Pseudo-Mavricia and the records of Pope Dukljanin, about which it is not entirely certain whether or not proven historical facts, but therefore Episcope Jovan Efeski can certainly serve as a source, is ours, and the Emperor of Iraq, who was the mother of the Slovenian tribes. So it should have been really wide, seriously taken this law very seriously. If this is regulated by a substance that depends on some connection to Serbia by millions of Serbian citizens who are not in Serbia now, then it should be a serious law, not talking about small children, rather than putting the government in some new councils. So we'll watch on TV -- the Diaspora Council met, the president of the Republic, the Prime Minister and ten ministers met, and today it's on the diaspora agenda. And where does it say they're going to carry out the congregation's orders, what you just said? Where does it say what the Assembly will bring? Decisions, resolutions, declarations - what? What's he gonna do? It's like writing a diaspora constitution, so it's going to be developed by new laws. This was supposed to work it all out. Even in that law, military officials and a lot of things you don't have here: the right to inherit, to issue travel documents... When we work for the diaspora, to put it in the code, in which they will know -- look how Serbia thinks of us. If you've traveled so much, have you ever seen other countries treat their emigrants? Did you see how organized it was, how nothing was left to the case? Did you see them breathing like one? Are there authorities and opposition there? There isn't. There are no emigrants among other people, only among the Serbs, and you have divided them. They were divided by socialists while they were in power, and you made a new division. In 2000, they wrote to me and to your representative for the president of Yugoslavia and begged us all to give up our candidacy to defeat Vojislav Kostunica. And that's when they got involved in the election business. Would you now pray for someone to vote for and for someone not to vote? Will this congregation propose candidates? Where are they in this congregation here? Why do you keep them as if they were never Serbs? The new category of Serbs that decides in the Assembly of its category - is illegal. Maybe it's legal, walk through the law, but if it goes down in the Constitutional Court? Where is this constitutional provision that some diaspora assembly will have its elections? Where are the provisions on how to choose (because it is an electrical way)? For the minorities here, you predict to detail how they're going to choose. There are no rules for the Serbs in the distraction, but for them to fight there. Or there will be a decree from Belgrade, and it will be said - if you want to have a dollar, if you want to get a teacher in Serbian, let this one be a delegate. Because that's what you are, your government is so complex. Your government has a minister who won't see the Russian president. Your government has decided that MPs will be sitting on the balcony when the Russian president arrives. I'll answer the question he's asked. I was asked by a representative of the Russian embassy to sit in the parter - he was ashamed to sit on the balcony, he knows how much I love Russia. And I was ashamed that there were other MPs sitting in front of me, and I know they don't like Russia, but they got special tickets from their ministries. They weren't supposed to be stopped at the entrance, so let's say you go upstairs. This is your attitude towards Serbs in Serbia, Serbs in the distance, towards Serbian citizens -- only the current interest and from election to election, ad hoc. When the envelopes of the foreign Serb voices are arrived, identifying who they are, and not identified as voting, I believe that you care for Serbs in the divisive. Until then, for you, there is only a source of income and a source of some new government. That's why you're not okay with this law. Not because the opposition MPs don't want that matter to be regulated, but because you, both here and among Serbs abroad, separate those who are with you and those who are not with you. You will hardly find these 44 delegates to represent this congregation. Or will they ask you, and where are those other political parties? When we turn to Serbia for help, when will they decide? As you convey our political struggle to them, as you do in local self-government, so man knows, if he votes in Vojvodina for the opposition local self-government party, that Pajtic will close the valves, that Bajatovic will close the gas. So, I'd consider, if I were the President of the Republic, whether this law should be signed or not. I would really like to ask the Constitutional Court's opinion before I decide to set the Serbs apart in a dispersion group that will be for power, to tell them that they will choose themselves without any rules, and I decide that they should be elected. You know, the one who decides to make the election, the one who adopts the rules for the election. Where are your rules for this election? Where are the ballots? Where's the choice? Will it be a majority principle? Will it be a proportional choice? A deal between organisations representing Serbs in Germany, here or there? You know there are 20 organizations in America alone. It's like that union arrangement of yours - who sits with the government, it's a representative union. The other one can never prove that he has the right to speak to the authorities. This will be accepted by these 44 delegates, most likely (45 should or should be the amendment to 44, we will see), but they will not accept Serbian citizens, especially those who have fathers, brothers, sisters, sons, sons, daughters abroad. You're detaching them here now. This means they will never vote in Serbia again. Anyone can tell them, you have your congregation; what do you want, in two congregations? ; well, it's enough that we're deciding on your demands from one congregation, and now you're going to come here to represent; who are you representing here? The constitution says that everyone has the right to choose and be elected, and that we are obliged by law to define how they will choose and how they will be elected. You have knowingly avoided defining by law how they will be elected. Anyway, here's a hot potato in Poland, so you decide who's gonna be your representative. How can he prove that the Serb is the one who votes? Do you have any card for Serbs, some country list? What if people who are Muslim religions show up and say they're Serbs? You also have in the congregation such folk messengers. Is he a Serb to you? What determines the concept of a Serb? Faith, past, territory from which he went abroad? That's the way it is. You can't do politics superficially, especially with a policy in which you decide a huge number of citizens. It has to be studio and thorough. Or do you think half of the voter's body in Serbia should not decide what will happen to the Serbs in the debate? I think you made a big mistake. If I were you, I'd pull this bill. There's time to make a good law, not to prescribe foreign laws. They know. With them, even the diaspora decides who will be in power, with their voices, so no one can think of rebelling against it, because they treat him just like the one who lives next to him in the village. What if he went to Germany a year ago, temporarily, to work and send money to his parents, why not vote? That's our attitude towards this law and your relationship to the diaspora. This relationship of yours is now just geographical to the diaspora so harsh. Otherwise, your relationship with all Serbian citizens is very harsh. Personally, if I were you, with the foothold I have on the electoral body, I wouldn't dare impose such laws. I'd like to check the election if I have credibility, whether I'm the one who should propose a law that regulates the lives of millions of Serbs.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28579	Thank you, Mr. Nikolic. Minister Srdjan Srekovic called for the word. Here you go, Mr. Lucky.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28580	As for the legitimacy of representatives of the executive and legislative authorities, it is determined only in the elections. Unlike yours, my political party participated in the previous elections. I want to point out that this is the first law on diaspora and Serbs in the region. I'm sorry that at a time when you were able to run a policy towards diaspora and Serbs in the region, this law was not passed, because otherwise today we would be able to talk about some perhaps better, improved text, which would give some better results. I firmly believe that by adopting this law, we are actually creating institutional mechanisms to lead policies towards diaspora and Serbs in the region at all. Unfortunately, in some previous times, policies towards diaspora have actually been such that the state of Serbia has done everything to make our diaspora as numerous as possible, i.e. to create very bad economic and political conditions for life in Serbia, and to actually encourage people to leave Serbia. I'm sure this law is a good basis, as I'm sure none, so neither is this legal text perfect, but I'm sure in time before us, as a serious and responsible state that wants to respect international law and take care of our people wherever they live, we'll create mechanisms to lead a much better policy. I would appeal to all political parties that when we talk about diaspora and Serbs in the region, we do not view this issue as a daily policy, that it is not a ring in which we should oppose our daily political programmes. I think that's one of those questions where, as responsible people, we can reach a consensus. Be absolutely calm and certain that, although I am a representative of one of the political parties, like all government ministers and as is the case in all other governments, I have never acted as a party man in my business. That's what the diaspora people know. This law defines the Parliament of the Diaspora and Serbs in the region with the desire and intensity that our people from the diaspora and the region, or their representatives, have the opportunity to bring concrete problems and strategic policy-making guidelines in concrete talks with top state authorities. We have very deliberately left our people from the diaspora and the region to regulate their own choice of representatives, i.e. delegates in the Assembly. As a man who is firmly defined for the democratic system of government, I am convinced that the time has passed forever when anyone should dictate to them the way they choose their representatives. Unfortunately, Serbia did so too long, from 1945 to 2000. I would remind you once again that before 2000, our diaspora could in no way have affected the country's economic and political opportunities. A significant shift occurred after 2000, although it is not enough. But with the constitutional solution, we've predicted the possibility that our diaspora people have the right to vote. I am sure that next year, when a package of election laws is adopted, we will also define a procedure that will allow the diaspora vote to be cheaper, more rational from the cost aspect, and, on the other hand, allow the diaspora representatives to come out in a much larger number of these elections. As the minister of the diaspora, if it turns out that interest in the diaspora's participation in the elections is great, I will advocate that the diaspora has its own representatives in the National Assembly as well, as a model for the countries which have already solved these issues (I think, above all, Italy and Croatia), which are countries that can compare with us, relative to the number and impact of the diaspora. All in all, I firmly believe that we are laying the foundation of a new policy and that this law will be a good basis for some future minister and some future parties that will eventually affect the work of the executive government.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28581	Thank you, Mr. Minister. People's MP Janko Veselinović came to the floor.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28582	Thank you, Chairman. It is very good that Mr Nikolic, I think of the head of the SNS parliamentary group, made his position clear, even though I understood so, that the SNS would not support the law on diaspora and Serbs in the region. It is very good that Serbs in the diaspora and in the region will understand how much SNS thinks of them. The good minister said that they had, in some ways, had an opportunity earlier to pass a law that would regulate this area. It is clear that caring for Serbs in the region and diaspora is not only when you sit in a good car and travel to Ravne Kotara for lamb or in Lika for plum. The concern for Serbs in the region is also when a law is found in the Serbian Parliament that finally puts them into legislation, which finally, from the time they were out of the law, because no document that existed in this country has ever applied to them, I mean legal norms, it is important that you are aware enough of what it means for them, you raise your hand, not to tell stories that, I mean, little children no longer believe. I'm going to bring up the Vrbs case. I was surprised by Mr Nikolic, the president of the SNS, when he said this law did not foresee the care of the Sandzak Muslims living outside Serbia's borders. Mr. Nikolic, it's good to take care of minorities, but don't, please, use things that aren't true. Read the good law, read Article 2, which says - in this law the term 'diaspora' includes citizens of the Republic of Serbia living abroad. This also applies to Muslims from Sandzak and Hungarians from Vojvodina and Croats from Serbia, and not to mention. It's not just about Serbs from Serbia, Mr. Nikolic. On the other hand, you've entered into one matter that's very disputable. You said that Serbia is not the Serbian country of origin and that there are more countries of origin. You know what, if you have looked at a little comparative legislation and read at least one law that regulates this area when it comes to the Republic of Slovenia, those who live in Italy or Austria do not consider that the state of Slovenia is not their country of origin, and neither the Slovenians in Slovenia nor the Slovenians in Austria will say that. If you say that Serbia is not the Serbian country's home state in Republika Srpska, I think you will be very angry with Serbs from Republika Srpska, including Serbs from Serbia. The mother state does not mean that Serbs are not an indigenous population in Republika Srpska, in the Federation of BiH, in Macedonia, Hungary, Albania, Romania, Montenegro. I have listed to you all the countries that are listed as countries in the region where Serbs live as a people, and are cared for by the state of Serbia, that is, the area has been regulated by the law on diaspora and Serbs in the region. Please, first of all, because of your electoral body, to keep an eye on (this is what people are watching, you know) whether you are in a group of those parties who will be against the adoption of this law on the day of the vote and thus settle into a group of parties who will want to keep this population out of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28583	Thank you. The People's MP Tomislav Nikolic, member 101, called for the right to replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28584	First of all, I don't know why you mentioned Verbas. He is not yet outside Serbia, although it is clear that the DS in Vojvodina wants him to be. You didn't finish me up on that Verbas story, so I don't know what you meant by that. Perhaps in the richest city in the area, where food is produced almost for all of Serbia, you opened a folk kitchen on Saturday, the day before the elections. Maybe you were saying that you shared 2,000 social packages, some of them in polling stations. Perhaps you were saying that together with radicals, you were campaigning against the Serbian Progressive Party and give the triumvirat Elezovic, Bajatovic and Mircic very well to separate Vojvodina from Serbia. Maybe you were saying we should take care of the Serbs in Vrbas after you won. Just tell me what you wanted to say. And your concern for Serbs in the region and the diaspora is seen through a statement by Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic. Just seven days ago, he said Serbs should decide on their own whether to go to elections organised by the Cypriot government in KIM or not. It's your concern for Serbs in the region and diaspora. That is the diaspora term you have led under the citizens of Serbia. I don't agree with that, of course, since you've been under the diaspora foresaw citizens of Serbia and Serbs in the region. If you thought of Serbs as diaspora, you wouldn't have separated them into Serbs in the region. As if the Serb who now lives in Macedonia is not an emigrant, that's what you'd like to convince us. That the disintegration of the Serbs who remained in the former Yugoslav republics is not an emigrant. Then what are they? You have diplomatic relations with these countries, you've established them. Today, Macedonia is drawing up a border on KIM with Kosovo as an independent state, and you have sent a "sharp note". I haven't read it in the papers yet, I haven't heard it on TV yet, you haven't encouraged Archbishop John, who is being persecuted in Macedonia. You didn't take care of him, you didn't protect him at all. He is sentenced to years and years of imprisonment for being a Serbian Orthodox priest. You care about Serbs who don't live in Serbia? I repeat once again, start worrying about Serbs living in Serbia first. If we go down here and disappear, who's going to protect your diaspora? If we're here from day to day, we're getting poorer and we're getting smaller, Mr. Minister, and they're not relapses from previous authorities. Since 2001, there's been less and less of us here.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28585	Three minutes, Mr. Nikolic. The People's MP Aleksandar Martinovic came forward. The reporting base is Article 101, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28586	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, of course it's a great lie that the SRS is working to separate Vojvodina from the rest of Serbia. I think every average citizen of the Republic of Serbia knows that. The Serbian Radical Party was the first political party to organise the stands in all major posts in Vojvodina last fall, before the Vojvodina Assembly adopted the Vojvodine Statute's proposal, and presented a number of critical remarks on the draft statutes of the AP Vojvodina. Anyone who monitors the meetings of the AP Vojvodina Assembly can see what the MPs of the SRS are fighting for. Mr. Nikolic, tell us what party you're in the Prepolje municipality coalition with. There you voted that the official language was next to Serbian and some kind of Bosnian language. Your councilmen voted to make DS candidate president of So Rum. Did you forget the rally last year, when Ranko Panic was killed? That's when you said you wouldn't have any contact with Ivica Dacic until the murderer of Ranko Panic was found. It's not even been a year since you and the SPS, and according to the approval and blessing of the DS, have concluded a coalition agreement in the municipality of Zemun. Do I have to remind you that you gave the quorum here to DS to vote various laws? Do I have to remind you that the votes of the MPs from the DS and the G17 Plus party on the Administrative Committee have managed to maintain the mandates of the SRS in an anti-constitutional and illegal manner? Who made it possible for you to sit in the Assembly - the SRS or those you attack so much, DS and G17 plus? Well, they made it possible for you, you're their child. If it wasn't for their voices, you wouldn't be sitting in this congregation. And you're the last man in this House who can transfer the SRS for some kind of, of course, completely invented coalition. Go to any place in Vojvodina and say – you know, the SRS is pushing for the separation of Vojvodina from Serbia. People will laugh at you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28587	The People's MP Veselinović Janko came to the floor. Base?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28588	I'm using the MP's time group. Mr Tomislav Nikolic, you know very well why I mentioned Tito Vrbas, or Vrbas, and your result. Do not share in the protection of the interests of the Serbian people wherever they live. It is better, Mr Nikolic, to take care of your party colleagues, because you will do likewise in Novi Sad if the Serbs who have avoided care are guided by Mr Mirovic, who in four years, as much as he was in power, did not allow him to visit the places where they lived, to enter the unpaved streets, but that is why he has behatoned the centre of Novi Sad. Of course, he won what he deserved in the last election, but Vrbas can be repeated in all the cities in Vojvodina if you take care of Serbs who had to avoid it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28589	I'm sorry, Mr. Nikolic, you had the advantage, but I thought Mr. Veselinović had a replica. National MP Tomislav Nikolic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28590	The fact is, only the SNS can beat the DS. And that whoever doesn't want to help him helps the DS. And that one who, day after day, presses and pretty pamphlets against SNS, helps DS. It's a fake. If you SRS can beat the DS and if you have better results than us in the election, call us, we'll help you take him down. If we have a better result than you, I invite you to help us take him down. If you take down the SNS, who's going to beat the DS? What is the name of this force here in this congregation? What is the name of this political party in the people? You don't have another one. Then please - either be with us or be with DS. The third option does not exist in Serbia. The third option can't win, and they're enjoying this. And it's all your fault. You pretend to be very important and smart, make up lies, spit on your politics until a year ago. Who vote for you? Instead of having dignity, you forced me out. I beat you, let's work together. Do I offend you, did I say a bad word? We vote for DS laws? What are you talking about? One night there are three MPs left to complete the session. Where's the budget for this year? With whose help was he brought? With the help of the SRS. Why aren't you talking? What did Vojislav Seselj say in a phone call from one of the opposition? - I'll help Tadic rather than Tomislav Nikolic. Who do you work for? You've risen above Serbia because that's what your president thinks. There is no one above Serbia. There's only God up there. There are no men above Serbia. And to tell him, go ahead. To free Serbia, to let her go. There should be a God and there should be a people. Between the people and God, it doesn't matter. That's what Tadic thinks he's reached about those heights. And it's not a dangerous height to climb, it's a fall.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28591	Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, please let us get back to the agenda. The right to replica has an MP, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28592	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, of course there's a political party that can beat the DS, and that's the SRS. If that weren't the case, I wouldn't be sitting where I sit. I think it's really... Well, Mr. Normal and decent Tomislav Nikolic, if I may continue. I'm sure you'll get your word after me. Your man is chairing the session. Don't be nervous. Show in the work how normal and decent Serbia is created. What you're doing is insane and rude. I think it's really blasphemy and sacrilege when the man who broke the oath he took in church talks about God, about morality, about someone who's above Serbia, etc. When did Vojislav Seselj say he was above Serbia? If he were above Serbia, he would have agreed with The Hague tribunal on the first day he went there. Well, he has shown by his own example that Serbia is more than anything. It's easy for you here to talk about Vojislav Seselj. Here, all of us SRS MPs here are trying, while he's gone, to talk the way we think he would talk. But wait, Mr. Nikolic, for Vojislav Seselj to return. No matter how hard we try to replace his absence from Serbia, we certainly do not succeed until the end. Vojislav Seselj is three spears above us. He showed it in The Hague. He beat him two days ago. The UN war crimes tribunal has rejected the prosecution's request to impose a lawyer on Vojislav Seselj and is approaching the day when Vojislav Seselj will return to Serbia. Come on, wait for that day. I guarantee you, Mr Tomislav Nikolic, on the day that Vojislav Seselj returns to Serbia, I tell you, I say that to the DS, and I tell that to all the opponents of Vojislav Seselj, it will be like that folk song – when Srđa Zloglogja breaks Turks on her ass. You won't be anywhere.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28593	I ask the Members of Parliament to return to the agenda. The right to replica has Mr Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28594	I want Vojislav Seselj back, just don't say there will be a conflict in Serbia then, as he will return to peaceful Serbia. Serbia will seek peace, not wars and conflicts, not Turks on their asses. There's an election going on in the buttholes. So, you said it right. You cannot make up for two absences – the absence of Vojislav Seselj and Tomislav Nikolic. We made up for the absence of Vojislav Seselj while I was in the SRS. Why don't you mention that period? Then how did we do it, and now all of a sudden you're not doing it? In fact, you don't manage to cover my absence. You miss the idea, you miss who's gonna lead you, who's gonna represent you. Now you're like some young teenager, to tear apart this old SRS piece, pretending not to see what's happening to him. He resigns because he's too busy. It's not true, it's the big boss who's changing the people who are going to run the party. It was her wish when she broke us last year. In relation to the mandates, our mandates are God's; your mandates are God's. And on those oaths, in this council, you didn't take an oath in the church either. It's your first meeting where you're an MP and you didn't take an oath in church. What are you talking about? What are you talking about breaking the oath and morale and church and God? I wish you much happiness in life, unlike you who think I am the source of your evil. It's all your fault. You're not listening to any senseless orders. Serbia has gone far. Serbia to which Vojislav Seselj will return will not be the Serbia he left. It will be Serbia where people will want to work, not fight, in which what you do will be more important than what you say. Our party could only say nicely, and we were never allowed to do anything. And you know it well. And it's a great cynicism to say that only you can beat DS. If I were them, I'd look forward to it. Anyway, they're looking forward to it. Some of you, for small services, spend your life, the rest of you don't see it or pretend you don't see it or say anything. You're campaigning not for yourself, not against the government, but against the SNS. Your political life has come down to campaigns against the SNS, campaigns against the one that 30% of Serbian citizens love minimum. Do you think that's going to make a good impression on the citizens? Are you going to jump out of it? Are you going to become a stronger political party?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28595	Three minutes, Mr. Nikolic. Mr. Aleksandar Martinovic answered the word. Based on your call, Mr. Martinovic? (Alexander Martinovic from the place: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28596	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28597	Just tell me what the basis is for reporting, Mr. Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28598	I said, Mr. Delicius, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28599	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28600	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr Tomislav Nikolic does not seem to know that the oath given in the church is not a can and that there is no duration. Once you swear to the gospel, to the Holy Scriptures, when you swear by the honor of your ancestors and the future of your descendants, it lasts for centuries. Then there's not a year or two. And it just shows how much you know nothing about religion or morals. On the other hand, Mr. Nikolic, come on, tell me, when did I want evil to you or your family? When? Or anyone from the SRS? In the fall of last year you launched an incredible lie that Vojislav Seselj was trying to kill you. Through who? He says it's through a guy named Nika Gajic from the Khrtkovci. We check in the police records whether there is such a man, not in the Krtkovci, anywhere in Serbia. He's gone. Well, then, he wants to kill me, the Duke of Vasilija Lazarevic. Anyone who knows this man knows that he can't move without the help of orthopedic aids. A man can't go to the bathroom without being helped. And now, imagine, a man like that wants to kill Tomislav Nikolic. You're using the most useless, corrupt means possible. What you just said, you're actually working for The Hague tribunal. You're saying Vojislav Seselj spent 18 years leading a policy of war, conflict, national, religious intolerance, etc. Where were you all this time? Who took another Chetnik oath in 1993 and was promoted to the Chetnik Duke? Me, Mr. Nikolic, or you? Who attended the Founding Assembly of the SRS in 1991 in Kragujevac, when a picture of General Draža Mihailovic was hanging on stage? Me or you? What are you talking about? You woke up, apparently, one morning and realized you were wrong. And then you talk for a year about how mature you are. Three years before retirement, you're mature. I've heard that a man becomes mature at the age of 18. Someone becomes mature at 21, someone at 25, but, behold, Mr Tomislav Nikolic matured in 60. But, come on, it's better than never.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28601	Mr. Nikolic, the base of the call?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28602	I'd like another line and I won't do it again.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28603	This is what we're going to end up with this circle of replicas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28604	I was convinced you'd finish this sooner. You have a discretionary right to decide how long the replicas last. But that's why I'm asking my colleagues to let me say something when they've already had their own representative several times. So I am the Chetnik Duke and no one can take it from me anymore. Whoever promoted me is no longer a Chetnik duke, he was taken away from it. I am celebrating Draža Mihailovic's movement and this has nothing to do with the policy to be led by Serbia. I am celebrating the movement of Draža Mihailovic, and I did not allow Kragujevac to change the name of any street named by the name of the dead partisan. Because I'm not exclusive. I glorify those who fought against the Germans, and as they looked, who led them, I don't care. An oath in the church. We took a new oath for each term, but you didn't know anything about it. You weren't even in the party then. For every term. I have many such oaths. If it had been enough once to endure it, I would have had it from the first call of the Federal Assembly. No, we took oaths for every term of office. None of you have passed for this one. You don't have that oath in the church, and I think you've lifted it, too, and you realize it doesn't lead to anything. I'm in years, I'm retired, I've got a lot of experience and I'm not into ideas that I can't come up with. I do not deceive the citizens of Serbia, I would like to remain remembered as someone who has done something. Maybe you think you have a lot of time ahead of you, so there's something you can do. I told you in good time -- you had a chance to do something for Serbia. Now where you are, in that environment, you can only be the most written, the most educated of all members of Parliament. And what you're talking about is godfather, you should know I'm his best man, not him to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28605	Mr. Martinovic, I followed the presentation of Tomislav Nikolic. Article 101(3), you do not have the right to reply.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28606	The 4th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zeljko Tomic and Milica Vojic-Markovic. The word is Mrs. Vojic-Markovic. Just to let you know that the government has accepted this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28607	That's exactly what I wanted to comment on - as far as I know, my amendment has been accepted. Given the very long circle of replicas, I would now like to return to what the minister was saying. I'm glad he's talking a little bit more about this law this time, even if what he's saying sounds like a pamphlet, because he's obviously worked a lot to read everything he's written to us in an explanation. I would go back to what he said, that this law develops institutional mechanisms to improve relations with the diaspora. That's exactly what the DSS is all about. There are no such mechanisms here. Believe me, we've read the law many times, with very professional people dealing with this matter, and there are no such mechanisms here. To confirm that, I'm going to ask you questions that the DSS has asked you several times already, and in the principle debate today according to the amendments. So, how are delegates chosen for the Assembly? What is the jurisdiction of the congregation? How long is the term of office of the Assembly and the term of office of the delegates? Whom do the decisions of the congregation bind? If you had answered these questions in this law, then you could say that the Assembly is a mechanism, and this way - that's not true. Another thing I want to talk about. You said you were defined as a democratic system of government and you don't have the need to conduct (the two things are, of course, excluded), but what you did in the law just shows that you're not defined for the democratic system of government. When you talk about advice, you have no people from the diaspora anywhere. When you talk about government policy, you don't have a Parliament. Where is the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia? It should also, with the government, make such a decision as the definition of politics towards diaspora and Serbs in the region. You, of course, don't have that. Where you need to negotiate with the diaspora, you have no diaspora at all. What kind of democracy are you talking about? That's totally ridiculous. What you said to us sounds very nice, but it's not here. And I told you yesterday, when I was talking about that famous Article 3, where you're talking about how you're defined for gender equality, you don't have it in the law. You write down a member from which we need to conclude this. There's no law on that, Minister. Did you read the law or just read the arguments? We responsibly claim that what you're saying is not in the law. So we ask you to accept the essential amendments that we have submitted as a political party, and these amendments concern the Assembly. And we'll keep telling you about it. I'm glad you accepted this amendment. He, of course, makes sense. Because we said - by granting national recognitions for a special contribution to the preservation and strengthening of ties between the mother country and the diaspora, i.e. the country of origin and Serbs in the region, as well as for contributing to Serbia's promotion in the world and affirmation of its interests, and that's fine. Of course you have accepted and it is nice that you have accepted, but I ask you to accept the essential amendments that make this law good or withdraw the law and work out the Assembly. Just don't play with this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28608	I was informed by the vice president that the debate on Mr Nikolic's amendment had already been concluded when I took over the session. The 4th amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic, who wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28609	Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, I find you a very nice and nice lady, but I don't think you've told the full truth this time. Because from what I've seen, Mr. Delic just pulled out his card and left the chair seat, so I doubt he could tell you in such a short time what was actually going on in the O.R.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28610	Mr. Martinovic (I will take this time), Mr. Delic approached and informed me of what I said. Otherwise, I'm not lying. Sometimes I keep the truth quiet, but I don't lie at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28611	I didn't say you were lying, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic. I would never tell you that. I deeply appreciate and respect you, but I don't think Mr. Delic gave you the right information. I answered the word before he left the chair, and he told me I had no right to reply, and then I said I was reporting after the amendment. However, you immediately moved on to the next amendment. But it doesn't matter. So, I will conclude the debate with Mr Tomislav Nikolic, because he is not present in the O.R. When he's there, then we'll look into each other's eyes and I'll tell him what I have to say. I don't want to talk to anyone behind my back. I will refer to the amendment that we have tabled to Article 4(2). It's a bill of law. Namely, we have proposed to amend the formulae of Article 2 in Article 4. The bill says: The Republic of Serbia can take measures to achieve ties with immigrants from the territory of the Republic of Serbia and their descendants, which are not covered by Article 2 of this law, if there is common awareness of the need for preservation - we have proposed to add the words "Serbian national interests" -- traditional relations and historical ties. We believe that there was really no reason for this amendment to be rejected. However, in the government's explanation, why the amendment is not accepted is as follows: "Amendment is not accepted for the reason that the law's proposal is to include a wider circle of persons living outside the country of origin, and hence also persons who are citizens of the Republic of Serbia and are not members of the Serbian people and who want to maintain traditional, cultural and linguistic ties with the Republic of Serbia". If I understand correctly, Mr. Minister, your government is saying that only Serbs care about Serbian national interests, and that all other citizens of the Republic of Serbia who are not of their ethnic background are not concerned about Serbian national interests. You're wrong, Mr. Minister. Here, as you come from a party that boasts about the cultivation of the Equality traditions, let me remind you of something you probably know. In Canada, in the city of vinzor, in 1956 a historical piece was published called "The Book of Draža". It is a collection of essays of people belonging to the Draža Mihailovic movement and who expressed their views on the movement, and they came from various parts of Yugoslavia. In the other part of that book about Draža, you have an essay called "The Contribution of the Coastal Croats". Here are the names of people who were ethnically belonging to the Croatian nation and were the great fighters of Draža Mihailovic's movement. It is mentioned, for example, the name of some Kresimir Vranic, who was captain of a battleship. You must have heard of Nika Bartulovic, a famous writer who was a great friend of Momcila Djuric and Ilia Trifunović Bircanin. So there was another Croatian named Silvi Alfirevic, who published a paper called "Krik from the Cave" in the Dinar Division of Momčal Đurić, and described the crimes of Ustasha in that list. They even say that Sylvia Alfirevic and his paper were the motive for Ivan Goran Kovacic to write that earthquake poem "The Cave". And now you're telling us that only one who is a formal Serb can take care of Serbian national interests, and anyone who is not a Serb can't. Do you see that you're wrong? What do we have living in this and this kind of Serbia from people who run Serbia today, who are supposed to be Serbs, formally and do not care at all about Serbian national interests? We don't have anything. So it is a great lie that by accepting this amendment you will allegedly harm Serbian citizens living in a diaspora and not ethnic Serbs. You won't hurt them. But you don't accept this amendment for another reason, which is more psychological. You want to turn out to be "very nice" so you don't insult someone. Believe me, with this amendment, if you'd accepted it, you wouldn't have offended anyone. Your problem is that this government and more or less the Dosmanian government since 2000 don't even know what kind of policy to run. You'd like to run a little Serbian politics, a little American, a little French, a little German, and you shouldn't be running all those policies. You only have one policy to run - Serbian politics, to look at the world with Serbian eyes and think with your Serbian head. Let the Americans run American politics, the French run French politics, the Germans run German politics, and the English run English politics, and you run Serbian politics. By accepting this amendment not only to offend non-Serb citizens, you would have given them more meaning. You would strengthen the style and unity of all citizens of Serbia who live wherever in the world. But you, for these trivial day-to-day political reasons, refuse an amendment that is and how good it is, not because I filed it, but because it is, in fact, how it corresponds to the authority of the promoter. Let's not lie, Mr. Minister. You wrote this law, first of all, for Serbs living outside Serbia. Of course, you wrote it probably for Serbian citizens living in the diaspora, who, according to their ethnic background, were Hungarians, Slovaks, Bulgarians, etc., but, above all, you wrote it for Serbs. Then why don't you push that concept all the way out? Why don't you have the political courage to implement this concept from the beginning to the end, but you're halfway there? The law applies to Serbs outside Serbia, but when someone in the amendment mentions Serbian national interests, it is unacceptable. That's unserious, Mr. Lucky. So you should accept this amendment. It is good and not to give up the intensity of you as a promoter and your government, but rather, it strengthens and stresses what is very important today, that and that there is cohesion between ethnic Serbs of Serbian citizens and non-ethnic Serb citizens. There's no such thing as a special gap, unless someone's artificially building it. I'll give you another example, Mr. Sretkovic. In the early 1990s, the SRS MP in this assembly was Mrs Elvira Fekette, Hungary, Roman Catholic. Believe me, she defended Serbian national interests more than many, and then today, which are formally Serbs, but who, with true Serbian national interests, really have nothing to do with it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28612	Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Antic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Mr. Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28613	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is obvious that most, I would say, even all opposition parties express great dissatisfaction with this law, consider it rather unspeakable, but there are some contradictions. On one such contradiction, in Article 4, I submitted an amendment. It seems to us that, if it is true, and we hope that it is an honest commitment of the government and a complete Serbian political elite to establish a much better relationship with our diaspora, one big job ahead of us. The work that binds us, which must be done systematically, persistently, without improvisation and a job in which results will not come quickly, because it is obvious that it is the trust of the diaspora in the queen and how it is thrown. I would remind you, ever since that old foreign exchange savings, through humanitarian aid, and these last years, since 2000, this struggle over these three and a half million euros that our diaspora had trapped in Beobana. So, there's a lot of mistrust in the business climate, and our diaspora isn't ready for what she's worked so hard to create to put into Serbia so easily. There's a lot of examples where they didn't understand. Our mentality, the way it is, is very bad. The level of our consciousness and the attitude towards these people influences them to invest their resources in Serbia with a lot of mistrust. I think it's the political obligation, the obligation of all of us, and, above all, the Government to put all our resources in motion. We're not in a situation where we can give up any resources, especially when it comes to diaspora, because its possibilities are great. That was also the reason for me to submit an amendment to this Article 4, to Section 2, which seems unnecessary to me, but in any case, it is necessary to stress the government's obligation to establish relations with all those people who feel that they have cultural and historical ties with the queen. This cannot be a matter of government's goodwill or any institution in Serbia. This must be the obligation of both these and some of the next governments and all institutions over a long period of time. That's why I filed this amendment on behalf of the SNS.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28614	The title above Articles 5 and 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Milan Dimitrijevic, Milica Vojić-Markovic and Željko Tomic submitted to the title above Article 6 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Milica Vojić-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28615	The Democratic Party of Serbia has submitted an amendment to the title above Article 6, which reads in the draft law: "Co-financing of projects", and we believe it must say "Financing and co-financing of projects". When we first read this law, we were under the impression that this title associated that we, as a state or government of Serbia, wanted a partnership with Serbs in the diaspora and Serbs in the region. There are people who do that, for example. Armenians, Jews; that is a wise way to work with the diaspora. However, when we read the text further and came to the issue of the budget (it is also a controversial issue, as regards DSS MPs, and we will talk about it later), we understand what you are really up to with this. So this title is clearly defined for co-financing as the only way to provide funding for project realization. We think there has to be another way, and that's funding. Any serious state and serious government are likely to be able, if they consider some of the projects submitted by some organisation of Serbs in the diaspora or Serbs in the region and how important for the area and for Serbs living in the diaspora or region, to finance the project. But the whole story you're trying to tell us with this law is another thing. You think the diaspora has money and that money must somehow be poured into this ministry, because you further predict that the minister will have the money. It can't. The state must assume responsibility that, if it already wants to have such a law, and we believe it is necessary at this point, and finance projects that it considers to be important. What do other organizations say about that? Here is an opinion from Mr. Dusan Janjic, president of the Forum for Ethnic Relations, former Director of the Emigrant Mother, which is also an important organisation. Of course, it's not a party, and that's why you don't like it, and you're not a partner in writing this law. He says so – those who really have money and are integrated in the environment in which they live, are interested in allowing them to employ, direct investment, donations, and not the establishment of the Diaspora Assembly. This is a superficial and inadequate response to real needs. That's what they tell you. I read to you what Mrs Mirjana Samardzija, the Congress of Serbian Unity, says Mr Predrag Golubovic, the Serbian People's Defence, and I will read to you more, since you obviously haven't read the law or what the Serb organisations tell you about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28616	The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Sladjan Mijaljevic, who wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28617	Finally, after these disturbing, pious, blasphemous and beautiful replicas, we came to the amendments. I have submitted an amendment to Article 6(1), which reads: "In order to realise the activities of Articles 2 and 3 of this Act, the ministry responsible for diaspora is calling for a co-financing competition for projects that contribute to the preservation and strengthening of ties between the Republic of Serbia and the diaspora, as well as the Republic of Serbia and Serbs in the region." The argument given by the Government or by the team giving reasons is as follows: 'Amendment shall not be accepted for the reasons set out in the explanation of Amendment 9'. And in the explanation of Amendment 9, it reads like this: "Amendment is not accepted. Article 2(3) of the Law sets out precisely that the term “parent state” means the Republic of Serbia’. I really don't know what to comment on here, except to say once again, with a surprise and a deep regency, that I have submitted an amendment that says: '...' The diaspora ministry is launching a project co-financing competition that contributes to the preservation and strengthening of ties with its quality... '"Who here mentioned home states, German states? I'm talking about the Ministry, I'm talking about the competition. I'm not even talking about terms. I'm just mentioning the Ministry and underlining that it should be realized. I really don't know who gives these reasons. Are these people in any inspiration or creative madness? I don't know what this is. Do they want to freak out the citizens and us MPs? Because this way I don't know how to defend this amendment. You see, in the government, when you give these reasons, that it's a little bit too much, that it makes sense, that we can have a better discussion. I'm looking for one, and I'm getting a whole tenth. What kind of country of origin when it comes to competitions? The Ministry will call a competition under some conditions, but we're not talking about the country of origin.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28618	Your parliamentary group has another minute and 15 seconds, besides, of course, having time for amendments. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banovic, Zoran Nikolic and Nikola Lazic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Mrs. Donka Banovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28619	This amendment is practically a continuation of the amendment where we have proposed that the title above article 6 be complemented by the word "financing". We think it's not good, and it's not a good message that goes from the Ministry, that projects can be co-financed, that you're always asking whoever's taking the project to participate in part. I understand when it comes to the association, the NGO, which has the means to participate with, say, 15% or 20%. I know it's a way of doing it when it comes to funding projects, because that's how you try to make this project sustainable and that the applicant is serious about the project itself. But there must be organisations that have a good idea, a good project, but they don't have money to co-finance. Such projects are likely to be small, but I think it should also give such organisations a chance. If you leave only co-financing, you define yourself exclusively for that single funding model. That's why we suggest that the member change, and the member himself, where "subfinancing" is written, add "funding". As far as project financing is concerned, one MP asked the diaspora ministry for a response on how some projects were financed in 2007 and 2008. In response, which we received from you, it is said that in 2007, about 72 million dinars were allocated for co-financing, I suppose, different projects, and that in 2008, the sum was slightly smaller, i.e. Some 53 million dinars have been spent. Furthermore, in your answer, we are talking about how the whole procedure is conducted. Namely, you have a rule on the selection of projects for financial support and donation from the budget of the Ministry of Diaspora, and that rule says it is the minister who appoints members of the commission who will choose the projects, and then the minister ultimately decides, and on the advice of the commission. It seems to me that this circle is somehow too closed. Could other ministries be involved? Because the minister determines the commission, the commission decides, advises, and everything goes back to the minister. It's like you've made a complicated procedure that doesn't essentially change anything. It all comes down to the fact that practically the minister decides everything. In this response, what you're saying is that you've funded 257 different programmes for these two years, in 2007 and 2008, and then you're saying what are the organisations and associations of Serbs from the diaspora, and it's from 25 countries. Among other things, from Hungary -- nine organisations, France -- four, Germany -- only seven (and we know that the diaspora in Germany is very numerous), while 120 organisations are funded from Serbia. That's, of course, good. This shows that there is an interest and organisation that works and works in Serbia. However, I think it is not good that only seven diaspora organisations from Germany have funded, or shown interest and delivered projects. There's something wrong. Whether you inform organizations in the world or not. That points to one problem again and it could also be a closed circle. I believe that organisations, associations, associations that exist and operate abroad should be better informed.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28620	The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Jankovic, who wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28621	The first part of this amendment is very similar to the amendment of counterparts Sladjan Myajević, and in fact it reads - Article 6 paragraph 1 is amended and reads: "In order to realise the activities of Article 4(2) and (3) of this law, the ministry responsible for diaspora is calling for a project co-financing competition that contributes to the preservation and strengthening of the link between the Republic of Serbia and the diaspora, as well as the Republic of Serbia and Serbs in the region." A colleague, Mijaljevic, explained the government's reasons for not accepting this amendment. I don't know why either. The second part of my amendment is that in Article 6(4) of the word "Minister in charge" is replaced by the words "Minister in charge". "New Serbia" thinks these jobs should be done by the ministry, as a state body, not a minister, as an individual. I don't know why the minister would have to take it all alone on his weak shoulders when there's a ministry.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28622	Mr. Secretary wants a word. Here you go, Mr. Lucky.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28623	The budget system law defines the minister as a ministry and that is the only reason it has been defined in this way.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28624	The 6th Amendment was submitted by a group of 20 MPs of the 'Forward, Serbia' group. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Mr. Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28625	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, based on article 147. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, together with colleagues from the parliamentary group "Forward, Serbia" of the Serbian Progressive Parties, have submitted an amendment to the draft law on diaspora and Serbs in the region. This is a purely technical amendment, which requires that when applying for participation in a project co-financing contest in addition to the other data provided by the bill's promoter, the name of the project, analysis of the situation and analysis of the effects. In your explanation, you stated that the solution was contained in Article 6(2). The bill has sufficiently precise and clearly defined the basic elements of the application for competition for co-financing of projects. You, Mr. Minister, are precise enough to co-finance projects that don't even have a name. How are you going to run these projects? How are you going to get into the media tomorrow and boast that you've co-financed some encrypted, nameless project? I'm a degree in engineering, I've met in the profession with countless projects and, believe me, every one of them had a name. Did you make a model for this bill and see what the sub-financing application would look like? I'm sure you didn't. Because if it were, you would accept this amendment, which is extremely well-intentioned, as well as anything proposed by the Serbian Progressive Party. On the other hand, Mr. Minister, how do you think you approve of co-financing projects if you don't have an analysis of the state and analysis of the effects? The Serbian host, when planning to install thermal insulation on the family house, first sees how many energys are now consumed, it is an analysis of the situation, and then predicts how many energys will spend and the resources will be saved when it installs that thermal insulation, and that is an analysis of the effects. It's only if it's worth it that he decides whether or not he's going to do the job. Do you really think you can spend money on Serbian citizens without any analysis and through projects that don't even have a name? I see the refusal of this amendment either as pure political acuity or as stupidity. If you want to prove there's a third reason, I think you should accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28626	The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Milan Skrbic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Antic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by a group of 20 MPs of the 'Forward, Serbia' group. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Mr. Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28627	That I was right when I spoke about political acuity, now not anymore, or but also the nonsense of the legislator of this law, says the refusal of amendments that I submitted to article 7 along with my colleagues from the "Forward, Serbia" group – SNS on the draft law on diaspora and Serbs in the region. We proposed by amendment to Article 7 that the words "realisation of projects" be replaced by the words "realisation of projects". You refused to do so even though the title above article 7 reads: "The report on the implementation of the project", not the report on the implementation of the project. Mr Minister, you have rejected this amendment although in this same article you state "within 30 days from the day of the implementation of the projects", not "within 30 days from the day of the implementation of the projects". So in the same article, you use the word "realization" twice and one word "fulfilment", and when we change, we want to synchronise this article -- you reject that amendment. In your explanation, you stated that it was the legislator's opinion that it was just a choice between two identical terms for the same concept. I agree with you in part here. In fact, the word “result ” tends to bind to“ keep the promise. ” Let's say, just like the pre-election promises made by Mladjan Dinkic about 100,000 new jobs or 1,000 euros from the privatisation of public enterprises. We are all witnessing that the "fulfilling" of these pre-election promises has nothing and that it is just another one of the great lies of a great manipulator, so I would advise you to accept this amendment, however, and to "realise" and co-finance projects.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28628	On the title of Chapter III above Article 9, the title above Article 9 and Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by the MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, who wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28629	Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment I have tabled to Chapter III, Title and Article 9, concerns the position of the SRS, which is also expressed in the interpretation of previous amendments, and in particular the amendment to Article 2, where we are asking for the term "mother states" to be replaced by the term "Republic of Serbia". This is my reason to tell you that I think it's a good thing that this law went into procedure and that we needed a law like this. I even dare say that our relationship to the diaspora is a matter of national interest. If we were to list what is all national interest, I believe that among the first five points would be this national interest related to our co-operation, preservation and concern for our diaspora. Because you will admit, and we all know that we are a people who are fighting for naked survival, that we are among the three oldest nations in Europe and that of course we don't care what happens to our diaspora. That's why I felt it might be far better if, before the law entered the procedure, you had spoken to representatives of the parliamentary groups to find a way to change what we are trying to change through the amendments now, find and clarify the common position, in order to turn this law, I can't say in a resolution, but in something that would put the whole parliament behind it. This way, because of some things that may seem linguistic now, and in fact they are essential, we will come into a situation so that, of course, we will not be unique in voting on this law, and yet I will return to the beginning where I said this is of national interest and that this is just some kind of strategy related to the relationship of the Serbian state towards my diaspora. We could've gotten past this. You still have time to think about it and see if we should maybe move towards that goal, or whether the state of Serbia needs the whole parliament, like when we brought a resolution about KIM, or the declarations, to stand behind this law, to fix what can be fixed in some conversation outside the assembly hall, outside the debate. It's no big deal if there's another session where this law comes back up. This is the most well-intentioned proposal by the SRS in order to regulate this matter in the best possible way and to express the position of the Republic of Serbia towards our diaspora, which is very important to us.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28630	You've spent your time with your MPs. The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic-Markovic and Nikola Lazic. Mrs. Vojic-Markovic wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28631	Thank you, Madam President. We are asking for the words "Government" to be added in Article 9th position 1 in front of the words "Government" to be added to the words "The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and" and that the word "confirms" is replaced by "confirmation", given that it is plural. The government of Vojislav Kostunica has given rights to citizens, Serbs living in the diaspora to vote in our parliamentary elections. Although, apparently, this government is not ready to get the right answer about how they're going to vote, since in previous elections we had a situation to, say, just yesterday we had a conversation with a lady from the United States who came to Washington to vote, but the lists of people who were supposed to vote in Washington were accidentally sent to Chicago, and in Chicago were lists of people from New York, etc. Serbs who make a great effort to come to vote or not on the list or lists are mixed, etc., so that what they are allowed by law is actually very perfiduously defended. Since they are, however, in a certain way and in a certain number, participating in these parliamentary elections, we believe that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and their representative body, because obviously by the time they are able to be MPs, and the Constitution must change in that direction in order to be so, the Sea Assembly, and that is the democratic right of the people, this is the people by their coming out to the elections and confirming our mandates and saying, to be in a position to establish politics with the government towards Serbs in the region and Serbs living in the diaspora. That is why we felt it was very important for this amendment to be accepted and that this democratic right be given to representatives of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, because we have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28632	The title above article 10 and article 10 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The First Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Donka Banović and Milan Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Mrs. Banovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28633	The intervention to Article 11 is practically related to what my colleague from the DSS said, which is that in attitude 1 after the word "proposes", in addition to saying it proposes to the government, it should stand: "and the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia". It is somewhat unusual that this bill in that first form, before some amendments were accepted, fully overlooked that there was a National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. It wasn't even mentioned anywhere, or were they, for example. Representatives of the Assembly, or president of the Assembly, or members or chairman of the Committee on Serbs outside Serbia were included in some bodies. Because the minister has adopted some amendments, the situation is somewhat improving. But in the first form, it is symptomatic that the minister and the ministry didn't remember that there was a Assembly, that there was a assembly board, so a permanent working body numbering 25 members, 25 MPs, and that they were not involved anywhere. Here, in particular, my colleague Vojic-Markovic spoke of people in the diaspora participating in parliamentary elections. These are small numbers, it is still very messy and messy, but the fact is that a number of people living in the diaspora are participating in parliamentary elections. So we can say that this is their representative body. Therefore, Minister, I think that you could also accept this amendment, which says that in addition to what you are proposing to the Government, you are proposing to the Assembly, and that, in addition to being obliged to prepare documentation, information and analysis from the areas of relation to diaspora and Serbs in the region, you are also obliged to do so with the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28634	The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic and Zeljko Tomic. Mrs. Vojić-Markovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28635	Thank you, Madam President. I have to read to you first point 2) of Article 11. The ministry responsible for the diaspora, according to Article 11(2), therefore monitors the implementation of the Strategy for the Conservation and Strengthening of State Relations and Diaspora, i.e. the country of origin and Serbs in the region. After what we've read, we have to ask ourselves what strategy this is about, if this strategy exists. She absolutely doesn't exist. What's very strange is that in this law, when you look at it, you have a very clumsy order of moves. You've got something to do first and follow up on the realization, and that's not done at all. So, gentlemen, in order for you to monitor its realization, you must first bring that strategy. It's a simple order of moves. As you wrote, you have to monitor the realization of something that doesn't exist. I claim there is no strategy to preserve and strengthen the mother country and diaspora. So, I don't know how you're gonna track her if she doesn't exist. I didn't notice, and you had to put here first that one of your tasks should be to bring in that strategy, so you could monitor its realization. Gentlemen, don't make it impossible for yourself to work. You don't even know there's no strategy. You're in charge of bringing her in. Please take care of what you write in the law. You're talking about how important this law is. We agree it's important, but the way it is, he has nothing to do with reality. You're monitoring the realization of something that doesn't exist. Get a strategy, then follow it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28636	The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Nikolic, who wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28637	And my colleague from the DSS and I have submitted an amendment to Article 11. He only supports what we said in the principle debate, to what extent this law is controversial. Article 11, which defines the responsibility of the Ministry of Diaspora, is actually in contradiction with what the Diaspora Assembly and the Diaspora Council should do. I said that if this law was passed, then the need for the Diaspora Ministry would absolutely cease. Indeed, in that context of reducing the state administration, I realized that you first of all made a decision to make your full contribution by abolishing one ministry and reducing the costs of the state administration. When you read what is the responsibility of the Ministry of Diaspora, among other things and in point 5), within the framework of Article 11 on which I submitted the amendment - to take care to ensure the conditions for the establishment and operation of cultural information centres in foreign countries in which the diaspora lives, etc., to monitor the implementation of the Strategy, to monitor the situation in the areas of relations between the mother country and the diaspora, as well as the mother states and Serbs in the region, then the question is what the advice is doing. They're following the same thing. They also provide conditions. What's the Diaspora Assembly doing? It's the same thing. So, we just have an insane proposal that actually multiple organs do the same thing. It's really all in contradiction. Given that we will reach the Assembly, Ministers, I assume that you have given yourself time to consider and answer the question of how certain members of the Assembly from America, France, Germany, Lithuania, Estonia, Congo, the South African Republic will be elected. It would be extremely fair if you told us that you specifically imagined it. Once again, I strongly advise you to withdraw this law, for it will open many dilemmas. Once again, I want to remind you, I also asked you a question a week ago, so I am still waiting for a letter with a certified seal of any relevant Serbian organisation in the diaspora that explicitly supported this law. So you've had seven days from the moment I first asked that question to get some memo where you have support. I'm saying you don't have it. When you don't have it, then you're asking a logical question for whom you wrote this law. The logic of things indicates that you didn't write it for the diaspora, but that the motives are those we talked about both in the principle debate and we'll talk about when we talk about other amendments. I would only ask you to tell us how much time there is left for the parliamentary group and the authorised representative.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28638	You have ten minutes left and the full time of the authorised representative. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Lazic. The government and the Committee on Relations with Serbs outside Serbia have accepted the amendment. You want to follow this amendment's word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28639	What I was saying earlier, as there is no logic in the Minister's moves when he adopted these amendments, shows that the amendment my colleague Nikola Lazic submitted to Article 11 paragraph 1 point 6 is fully in accordance with Article 4 and the Ministry accepted the amendment that we gave to that article. This is about the ministry 'assigned national recognitions for a special contribution to the preservation and strengthening of the country of origin and diaspora, i.e. the country of origin and Serbs in the region, as well as for a special contribution to Serbia's promotion in the world and affirmation of its interests'. This formulation, also written in Article 4, was accepted by the minister. I don't understand what's so controversial about this right now. So it's not like the last one I've commented on, that you're following something you haven't done. Please read again the amendment Mr Nikola Lazic submitted to Article 11 paragraph 6 and I expect you to accept that amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28640	The title above Article 12 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Here you go, Mr. Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28641	Ladies and gentlemen, given that the state of Serbia is not the only country of origin of the Serbian people, I have submitted an amendment to replace the term "parent state" with the term "Republic of Serbia". I will take this opportunity to say a few words about the position of the Serb people in the former Yugoslav republics. More than 10,000 Serbs without citizenship and passports live in Slovenia for more than 15 years. In Croatia, 14 years after the end of the war, Serbs are second-class citizens. More than half a million exiles cannot return to their hearths, Croatia refuses to return 50,000 apartments, new indictments are constantly being filed against Serb returnees, and more than a thousand families are in vain searching for the remains of their loved ones. Despite all the above, Croatia has filed a genocide suit against Serbia to the International Court of Justice in The Hague, and Serbian President Boris Tadic has repeatedly apologized to the Croats for the crimes Serbs committed against the Croats, and has not before provided that Stjepan Mesic or anyone from the Croatian Serb state apologized for the much more serious and massive crimes committed by Croats against Serbs. As far as Montenegro is concerned, Milo Djukanovic is trying very hard to show that, when it comes to Serbs, he can be a bigger Croat than the Croats. The number of Serbs in the Federation of BiH is measured by thousands. Hundreds of thousands were expelled, thousands were killed. In 527 pre-war Serb villages in the Federation of BiH, there are no more signs of life. The houses are torn down, the churches are torn down, the cemetery is torn down. The only place Serbs in BiH have full rights and freedoms according to European standards is Republika Srpska. That is why the United States, NATO and their war allies, Croats and Muslims, are working hard to destroy the Republika Srpska. During that time, Serbia is strengthening special ties with Milorad Dodik.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28642	The 12th amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jankovic and Gordana Pop-Lazic. Mrs. Pop-Lazic wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28643	In Article 12. The government is proposing that a decision on the establishment of the Strategy be made by the Government. I ask the amendment to bring the Strategy to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on a proposal from the government. My explanation is the continuation of my previous discussion, because of the importance of the topic we're talking about. The strategy, however, is the highest political and legal act in any area. It expresses the political and principled definition of the state. On some issues, the Strategy provides tasks and obligations to some state bodies. That is why I think it would be wise for the government to just propose a decision on the adoption of the Strategy, and for the Strategy to still be the subject of debate here in parliament. You've given an explanation that there's no explicit writing in the Constitution. That's true, but there's no constitutional ban on it. It is your decision whether the Government, under the government law, will make and determine the Strategy or, in order to give it meaning, will refer it to Parliament. If you do so, if you accept this amendment, then I suggest that you and the representatives of the parliamentary groups establish such a strategy that we could all stand behind, so that we can implement this strategy and that we can see these effects in the near future.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28644	A group of 20 MPs from the "Forward, Serbia" group submitted to the 12th amendment. Mr. Zoran Antic wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28645	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in this agenda we had a strategy of defence and a strategy of national security. The assembly was considering these strategies, and I think it's a good thing the Assembly said something about these strategies. I think the ministry could also assess the position of most political parties on these strategies. We also think that we should consider the strategy relating to the relationship between the queen and the diaspora, which we expect, in the National Assembly. It is not enough for the government to adopt it and there is no reason to miss another opportunity for the Assembly to say its word about it, to see how sincere the ministry's insistence was when this law was passed and to possibly make some suggestions, some suggestions for future work when it comes to queen and diaspora. Therefore, I think that this legal solution that excludes the Assembly rules out another possibility for us to discuss diaspora problems in the near future. It's bad and unacceptable for the SNS, and we've been trying to make it right with this amendment. This is also an opportunity for me to express regret on behalf of the SNS that this is also the way that the Assembly is humiliated, and I feel that executive power does so very often. It portrays us as an unserious body and demeans the MPs. And in this way, avoiding talking about very important things, topics very important to over three million of our people, so you say, out of the country, you have humiliated the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28646	The 13th Amendment, in the same text, was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandar Chotric, Aleksandar Jugovic, Mirko Cikiriz and Zika Gojkovic, as well as by the government. The government has accepted the amendment of the MPs. The Committee on Relations with Serbs outside Serbia has accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic, who wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28647	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have proposed an amendment by recasting Article 14. It's a bill of law. We believe that under the organisations of the Serbs in the diaspora and the region, political organisations of Serbs should first and after that all other forms of voluntary association. The government refused that amendment. Under Serb organisations, it only involves organisations that have no political character. That, of course, is not good. We believe that our amendment is far more complete and that it covers all the organisations of Serbs that exist abroad than the formulation in the bill. By the way, I want to point out that you government gentlemen mislisted the names of the states in which Serbs live. I particularly want to remain on the wrong name of the state which showed a few days ago that it does not respect the territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia. The official name of Macedonia is not the Republic of Macedonia. She was admitted to the UN as the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia. Greece thus wanted to prove one great historical truth, which is that those today called Macedonians have no slight ties to ancient Macedonians, Macedonians of the age of Alexander the Great. I don't know why you've "honored" that country, the former Yugoslav republic, which constantly shows that it absolutely doesn't care about Serbia's territorial integrity. You've made a mistake in the name of some other states, but I'll try to prove it to you when we discuss some other amendments. Since a debate was held in the Serbian Parliament these days that was not only formal but also somewhat historical, allow, Mr. Minister, regarding Macedonia, to read to you what the famous historian Nikola Vulic said about the problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28648	Time, thank you. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic, Zoran Nikolic and Donka Banovic. The government and the Committee on Relations with Serbs outside Serbia have accepted the amendment. Mr. Nikolic wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28649	I thank both the Government and the Ministry for accepting this amendment, but I would also like to explain why we have submitted this amendment and why it is important. "Article 14(1) after the word "work" adds new words: "promotions of Serbia and affirmation of Serbia's state interests and interests". Article 14 defines what organisations are in the diaspora, what is meant by this term, and it is said that they are formed for the preservation and care of Serbian cultural, religious and ethnic identity, as well as the realization of cultural, educational, scientific or sports - and we intervened there, we added "humanitarian" co-operation with the mother country. Why is this important, and why is it good that the government has accepted? Because, even if we are not burdened by the problems that we have as a state and people, the work of all state authorities, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly, as well as all organisations in the diaspora, is to promote and advocate our national and state interests. It is of crucial importance and then all these other aspects, protection and cultural and religious and ethical identities, come into place. I am pleased that this has been recognized as a positive change and that the government has accepted this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28650	National MPs Donka Banovic, Zoran Nikolic and Milica Vojic-Markovic together submitted the title above Articles 15 and 15 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Donka Banović.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28651	This amendment to the title above Article 15 and Article 15 itself is one in a series of amendments that the DSS and DSS MPs consider not to form the Diaspora Assembly and Serbs in the region in this way and in this way. We believe this will have adverse consequences. We've talked about this before. So there's no valid record. The Minister's question - on the basis of which records and criteria you then proposed four delegates of the diaspora for the United States or three delegates of the diaspora for the Republic of Austria, the Swiss Confederation, Australia, New Zealand, etc.? So based on what criteria did you even propose in Article 18, what area does delegates give? That's one thing. Another thing, you're replacing thesis. When we say that you didn't predict that there could be several options for choosing delegates, then you replace it and say that you're a top-notch Democrats because you didn't anticipate any procedure. I talked about it yesterday. Here a few months ago, there was the Law on the Selection of National Councils of National Minorities in the Republic of Serbia, and the bill promoter elaborated two ways of electing the National Minority Council for the Republic of Serbia. You think you're a big Democrats because you've left them at will and you even say, the organizations will agree on their own. What organizations? Do you have any record of what organizations they are or should I use the words - which organizations are representative and which are not? I will ask again the question my colleague Nikolic asked. What will you do if ten motions for delegates come from an area or from a country instead of five? Who will it be, and based on what criteria will these three or four delegates be determined? How are you going to explain that you're going to say no to six? This is all set upside down, this one and this one. If this works out at all, it'll only do some damage. It's gonna be a body that's gonna meet once a year. You have a body that the president of the assembly cannot summon, so you don't have any organs where the president of that body can call a session. That's why we think this law should be withdrawn. But since you obviously won't, then we think it would be good for both the diaspora and the Serbs in the region to leave out the formation of this and this kind of assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28652	National MPs Aleksandra Jankovic and Branimir Djokic submitted the title above Articles 15 and 15 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Branimir Djokić.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28653	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to the title above article 15 and Article 15, and I ask that it be changed. We have already discussed this and are trying to separate the Parliament of Diaspora and Serbs in the region into "the diaspora assembly" and "the Serb assembly in the region". As to why they should be separated, if those congregations will exist, other MPs have also been exposed. Of course, it is difficult to make a union of Serbs living in Chicago, Melbourne, Adelaide and around the world with Serbs living in the region, the environment of the Serbian queen. The problems are completely different, they don't have any touch points with each other. Therefore, I believe that this is a common congregation, that I am not talking about how it came to be that this assembly has 44 representatives, on which principle they will be elected, how they will be delegated and how you have come to that number, no one has explained it to us so far. We feel that it is incompatible and that if there should already be these congregations, if you are putting them into law, Mr. Minister, make sure that this congregation at least works better. It can only function better if you allow people in the region to have a congregation, because they face completely different problems than the entire diaspora of three million people living around the world. Therefore, article 15, along with the amendment I submitted, would read: "The diaspora assembly and the Serb Assembly in the region are the highest representative bodies of the diaspora and Serbs in the region. "
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28654	Donka Banović, Zoran Nikolic, Milica Vojić-Markovic and Željko Tomic together submitted the title above Articles 16 and 16 of the amendment. Mrs. Vojic-Markovic wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28655	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. Minister, the Democratic Party of Serbia believes that the title above Articles 16 and 16 should be deleted, which is "The Authority of the Assembly" and the Assembly. What makes us think this should be erased? And my colleague Mr Nikolic and Mrs Donka Banovic explained why we think it is very important that the bill does not pass in the Assembly. I also have before me stenographic notes, where MPs from other parties, from ruling parties, have also been asked that the Assembly, as given in this law, be changed to accept our amendments. Mrs. Kolundji was talking about it. I'd like to support the opposition in those parts where we've written amendments that are essential to this law. So I repeat the thousandth time of the questions that DSS MPs have so far referred to the minister. The Minister of Chat, these questions are not answered. Why is it important that as he offered the congregation, it does not go away, and why are we erasing it? You, Mr. Minister, have no precise record of what Serb organisations are in the diaspora, how many there are and what they do. If I'm absolutely right, it also shows what you're proposing to be one of the council's jurisdictions, they should write down these organizations. How will you organisations, which you do not know about, or what they are, or how many there are, without saying that we all know that they are completely different, that they do not agree on Serbia's foreign and internal policies, that they do not agree on economic measures in Serbia, that they do not agree on many issues - cultural, religious and other issues, that you make them agree and that they are now giving delegates? So, what are you gonna do? Who will decide which delegation will be elected if you have 50 organizations in Sweden and receive 50 suggestions? You have to have a elaborate mechanism based on which to choose. Mr. Minister, you have not offered us at all criteria for selecting these delegates, nor the modality of that choice. You say it should be respectable people in its midst. Excuse me, what's that criterion? Look at the research that tells young people who are respected people in their midst. Those who have money, and they don't care how they got to it, who drive jeeps or this and that. Are you looking for respectable people in that middle of yours? You have to work out the criteria of what respectable people are in their midst. Next, you don't have the delegation's selection procedure, you don't have the Parliament's mandate. Mr. Minister, that's totally ridiculous. You here in paragraph 2 say – The Assembly shall adopt a Rules of Procedure, which shall be governed by general terms, manner and procedure of decision of the Assembly. Well, you didn't set a mandate. How long does this mandate take? Five years, 12 years, for life? You can't do that. You have to tell us how long it takes. You don't tell us what the further powers of the Assembly are, you don't tell us who those decisions made by the Assembly should be binding. Don't tell us about it. Don't laugh, read the law. So I'm fully aware of what I'm saying. I'll ask you again for the 50th time. Answer the questions we asked you. My colleague, Mrs. Banovic, mentioned that a few months before this was the National Minority Council Act. Read it, Mr. Minister, that law. Two choices of national councils were developed there. Read what it looks like. You're talking about mechanisms. Well, you don't have mechanisms. I don't know what you read here and what you offer us as a mechanism. We feel that this law is the best thing to do is to withdraw and work out the congregation. If you can't work it out, you have the model that we, the DSS MPs, have made. We didn't offer it to you just because the law, the way it is, the bad, can't work that way. Pull the law and fix it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28656	The title above Articles 16 and 16 of the amendment, in the same text, were submitted by Aleksandra Jankovic and Vjerica Radet, a folk MP. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MPs Aleksandra Jankovic and Dejan Mirovic submitted an amendment to Article 16. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Donka Banović, Zoran Nikolic and Milica Vojic-Markovic together submitted to the title above Articles 17 and 17 of the amendment. Mr. Nikolic wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28657	The Democratic Party in the National Assembly has clearly challenged the law in principle. Mrs Nada Kolundzija, as head of the parliamentary group, expressed hope that amendments submitted by the opposition would be accepted and that this law would therefore be corrected. If there is a need for this law to be corrected in a given domain, then it is the Assembly, which is formed in the way provided for by this law. In fact, all that is written in the points concerning the formation of the congregation, says that this congregation cannot be legitimate, that they are not clear nor of the criteria nor of the modality that this congregation will form. So I am very disappointed with the DS's position, which apparently revised its position in these seven days. He had a position that was approximated to the DSS' position on this bill, and I'm guessing, due to political trade over the past seven days, he's given up what's been said in the principle debate. The Assembly whose responsibilities are unknown is not known criteria on which basis and how delegates are elected in the Assembly, which is the duration of the term of office, even if the number is 44, and we all know that the amendment is submitted because the text further shows that the number is 45. It's clear that DS missed the opportunity to, based on an amendment that, first of all, submitted by the DSS, make this law as much as we can make better. It is then the responsibility of both the DS and the responsibility of the ruling coalition in general for such a disastrously bad bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28658	The title above Articles 17 and 17 of the amendment was submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jankovic and Gordana Pop-Lazic in the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 17 of the amendment, the Government and joint MPs Aleksandar Čotric, Aleksandar Jugovic, Mirko Cikiriz and Zika Gojkovic submitted the same text. The government has accepted the amendment. The Committee on Relations with Serbs outside Serbia has accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 17 of the amendment was submitted by a group of 20 MPs of the "Forward, Serbia" group. Mr. Zoran Antic wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28659	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have submitted an amendment to the same text. In fact, here, in our opinion, a very serious mistake has been derailed, because in the bill of law, we have 44 delegates, and apparently, by simple count, it's number 45. I wouldn't even answer for a word, but I think it's incorrect for my fellow SPO colleagues, with all due respect, who have submitted the same amendment, since my colleague, Mico Rogovic, managed to count, entered into the details of the law, recognized this very serious failure. On that basis, they have submitted the same amendment. Their amendment has been adopted. We respect that, and the law needs to be corrected, but I think it's much more honorable to admit your mistake. There's a mistake at the Ministry. The mistake also shows all that my colleagues claim, I would say from the beginning of this debate, that the congregation itself, as it was designed, is its jurisdiction, its weight, the way of constitution, the mandates, that all this was done very sloppyly, in haste, when such incredible mistakes could have been stolen. I'm not alive how this law is really going to apply in practice.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28660	National MP Aleksandar Martinovic tabled an amendment proposing that Article 17a be added. Mr. Martinovic wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28661	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will try to prove by historical arguments that the amendments of the SRS are absolutely justified. So I said that with the last amendment, an old Serbian historian Nikola Vulic published an article in the 'Serbian Voice', an organ of the Serbian Cultural Club launched by Slobodan Jovanovic, in 1939 called 'South Serbia or Macedonia'. Well, here's what Nikola Vulic says on this topic: Often southern Serbia is also called Macedonia. That's wrong. The power that Serbs freed 1912 from Turks can only be called southern Serbia, and no way can Macedonia. First of all, it should be known that the northern part of southern Serbia from Vranj to Veles never belonged to Macedonia in ancient times. The area was called Dardania, which made the state for itself. The rest of southern Serbia, with Prilep, Bitola, Ohrid, etc., was an integral part of ancient Macedonia. Is that why this area can be called today? Certainly not. Eastern Serbia was called in the Roman era Mesija, Srem and Slavonia - Panonia, Bosnia belonged to Dalmatia. Who could have thought to use those old names today? No one's ever done that. Macedonia for an area south of Veles is an entirely artificial name and is a new date. In a certain age, it doesn't exist. Dushan and the rest of our rulers don't call it that. They don't even call them Turks after 500 years of government. It is clear that Macedonia was the name that the people in the area at least gave to their country. This is, however, unquestionably established. For Macedonia, residents from Kocan to Struga and from Djevgelija to Charplana did not know until a certain propaganda. To the village life it is and now almost unknown. It is absolutely funny when residents of southern Serbia are called themselves Macedonians or are called others. With Macedonia gone, there can be no Macedonians either.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28662	Thank you. It's been two minutes. National MPs Donka Banovic, Zoran Nikolic and Milica Vojic-Markovic together submitted the title above Articles 18 and 18 of the amendment. Mrs. Banovic wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28663	The title above Article 18 reads: ‘Delegates’. Of course, this is where the Ministry is trying to work out the composition of that congregation. I'm just going to say a few words in the first position, how undefined this is, and then unserious. "Delegates of faces are respected in the environment they live in." Please, what does that mean? An organization or group can be respected, another group can view it as a person who is neither respectable nor respected, but another. I'm going back to that initial question. Minister, what if, say, the Kingdom of Spain or the Republic of Portugal, which has the right to one delegate, comes up with five proposals for this one delegate? How will you judge? You here, at the end of this article, said that the country of origin would not interfere in the process and conditions of the election of delegates in the Assembly. I'm mostly reading the bill we're getting. I must admit, this is not the attitude I've read yet, where the state in the bill says it won't interfere. So whenever you point that out, it means that there's another intention, that you're going to interfere. I'm continuing my first position. So undefined -- "a face respected in the middle they live in." The following is -- "to be selected for countries or parts of countries where a significant number of members of the diaspora resides". Very undefined again. What does a significant number mean? A significant number could be a million, could be 100,000, a significant number for that diaspora could be a hundred. It seems to me that some 5,000 Serbs live in Portugal, and that is a significant number. So it's completely undefined. Anyway, this bill of law didn't come across any interest in the diaspora. It's simple, like it was written for a certain group of people. You know, if you had a lot of criticism, that would mean the diaspora is paying attention to this bill and what we're talking about here today. Having criticism or commendation means that diaspora is watching what's done in the home country. Because that's what they do about their position and the situation they're in. But this torment suggests that the diaspora sees this on the side and says, "These are, brother, unserious," and the whole bill is unserious, because, well, they won't even deal with this proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28664	Mr. Zoran Nikolic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28665	Article 18. "Delegates." Mr. Minister, this is absolutely no joke. You can keep your mouth shut as long as you want. As far as I'm concerned, and until this debate is over. I am now speaking to the head of the DS parliamentary group. This really isn't a joke, when we talk about the legitimacy and legitimacy of the Diaspora Assembly. We have here, first of all, defining what delegates are, what conditions they need to meet, what kind of people they should be, in one of the broadest formulations, which actually means nothing. But then the quotas were given. Now you're going to have to answer and I really insist on that, to tell us on the basis of which criteria you've set a meeting of 45 MPs, in this geographical section. For example, Russia is predicted to have one delegate. Do you have a record, at least about how many Serbs live in Russia? A delegate in the Assembly will also be from Latvia. If you're telling me that we have Serbs in Latvia as much as we do in Russia, then I really don't know where we are most. Look out, the Republic of Iceland will give one delegate. So if there are more Serbs in Iceland than in Russia, in Moscow, then it's really a questionable matter. Two delegates will give Canada, France, Sweden, the UK. So Latvia, Estonia and Lithuania will give one delegate each, and Great Britain and Serbs from France will give two, and the Serbs from Austria will give two delegates. I really don't understand what criteria. That's what we're arguing about. So the inequality of delegates in the congregation, or legitimacy that is not equal. That we don't go in the way of choice, that you don't have an answer. You must respond on the basis of which criteria you have set that Canada gives two candidates, Russia and the Republic of Latvia one by one, Estonia one. This is really contrary to logic, and it would be good for you to enlighten us and tell us on the basis of which criteria you have made such a decision and determine the predetermined composition of the Diaspora Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28666	Thank you. Just tell me if you spoke as an authorised representative or used three minutes. As an authorised representative. Mr. Secretary has his word, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28667	I don't understand why you're yelling. This is still the National Assembly. We all hear very well, it's a direct transmission, the cameras are recording. You'll spend all your time on the Rules of Procedure. You'll be able to tell a thousand times the lie you've prepared, which you've been telling for a week, but that's your problem and your right. Of course, and to use all the procedural opportunities that the very democratic Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, which this new government has brought, proposed and adopted, and I am very pleased about that, so you will have the opportunity to say a thousand times something that someone has dictated to you and that you have to read very many times. And that's your right. When we proposed a number of delegates in the Parliament of Diaspora and Serbs in the region, we worked very hard and very carefully in consulting and with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and with our diplomatic and consular representations in relation to the number of members of our diaspora, in relation to their way of organisation, degree of organisation and influence in the environments in which they live, we tried to achieve representativeness on the one hand, so that there are no countries from which there are no representatives of diaspora and Serbs in the region, and, of course, we had in mind also the number of members of the diaspora, i.e. Serbs in the region who live in certain countries or parts of the countries. We have worked very hard to make it possible for all those who have something to say, who want to work closely with the state of Serbia in economic, political and cultural terms, to have the opportunity to have a representative in the Diaspora Assembly and Serbs in the region and to have the opportunity to bring concrete problems in contact with the highest state bodies and to make appropriate decisions. Unfortunately, in earlier times, when you and your party had the opportunity to influence something like this, you did nothing. Once again, I am proud to adopt the first law on diaspora and Serbs in the region. This law is not ideal, but it is a good foundation, and I am convinced that we are laying the foundation of a new policy, and I think that a large number of people who once believed your political option, few of them, unfortunately, remain because of that kind of passion, the negative energy and the hatred you show in the National Assembly of Serbia. I am very sorry about that, and I am sorry that you have been sending a message to the diaspora members for seven days that they are not significant, that they are not important to the state of Serbia and that they are arguing with each other, that they are intolerant. These people are very nice, decent, big patriots, they love the state of Serbia and they want to work much closer to economic and political co-operation with their country of origin. This ministry and the team I'm leading will make it possible for them. I am very glad that I also have the support of the Serbian government, my fellow ministers and the entire state summit to start a new, responsible and state-owned policy towards our diaspora and Serbs in the region. I'm sure it will support the rest of your voters.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28668	Thank you. There's no basis for replication. The word is Mrs. Hope Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28669	The Honorable Madam President, Mr. Minister, members of the government, is once again abused, in a very incorrect way, what I was saying, and in that sense, it really doesn't stand what you said. When I spoke of this article, what was specific in my presentation is that the state should not arbitration and interfere in the way of selecting the representative of the diaspora in the Assembly, which the law says. Therefore, the text of the law states that the closer conditions of the election of delegates are agreed by the organisations referred to in Article 14. Your amendment is just the opposite of what I was asking the question - whether there is any interference of the state or no interference of the state in the way that the representatives of the diaspora are elected. Your amendment is doing exactly what I thought the state should never do. You propose with your amendment that closer conditions, the way and the monitoring of the election of delegates are agreed and implemented by the Committee on Relations with Serbs. So, direct state. You can't call on me at all when you talk about your amendment, because we are fundamentally different from what was our approach and insistence that there is no doubt that the state has put this all up so that it doesn't want to interfere with the organisation of the diaspora.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28670	Mr. Nikolic, there was no insult or misunderstanding. This was an explanation and a response to your comments. As an authorised representative, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28671	Now I'm gonna get up. I'll speak silently so Mr. Secretary understands me. Otherwise, I speak loudly, especially when I believe I'm absolutely right. Now, apparently, I'm right. You'd better not be answering us at all. You can't answer any questions. So how did you come to have a member of the Latvian Assembly and a member of the Russian Assembly? By what criteria? And Austria gives two members of parliament. And France gives two members of parliament. How many Serbs do we have in Latvia, how many in Russia, and how many in Austria and France? That's the question I asked you to answer. As for Mrs. Hope Kolundgia, you have read the amendment that we have not submitted at all. You had to prepare yourself a little better or at least have your associates prepare you a little better. So, we are asking for an amendment to delete the Assembly, because even the amendments made by the opposition do not determine either the work of the Assembly, nor the mandate of the Assembly, or the mandate will be corrected, but the legitimacy of the members of the Diaspora Assembly is controversial and this shows exactly where the tax is stated from where we will have members of the Assembly. It is impossible for Austria and France to have two congregations, and for Latvia to have one. What does this congregation look like? She'll make decisions, I guess, most of the votes. To you, the vote of the representatives of the Serbs from Estonia, representatives of the Serbs from Latvia and Iceland, who also gives a candidate, will be the same with the parliament of the diaspora Parliament coming from France and representing a number of diaspora. That's the illogical thing to do. So the assembly is not formed properly. Members of the congregation do not have the same legitimacy, and hence the decisions to be made are controversial from the point of view of legitimacy.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28672	Mrs. Kolundjia.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28673	I think it's important for the public to read what a member of the law says. So when you talk about Latvia, Estonia, Lithuania, etc. They have one delegate, and then you say that one delegate has Austria, then you overlook that there is a word, the word "po" -- four delegates for, so countries and regions are listed. And when it comes to a part of the world covered by Poland, the Czech Republic, the Republic of Slovakia, the Republic of Latvia, Estonia, etc. Then there's one delegate in all. If you want a proportional number, if you want it to be proportional to the number of diaspora, then you're going to have a massive, completely dysfunctional assembly. The question here is whether it's about you wanting to have representatives and, therefore, to respect the fact that there are more of our people somewhere, and somewhere there are fewer of our people, but you want to cover everyone where they are so they can have their own representatives, or, if you want to have a proportional relationship with the number, then the assumption is that you're going to have a huge assembly, which isn't going to do the job they're choosing. There's just a question here if there's a part of it that needs to be a representative in the first place. If you think this group of countries doesn't deserve to have any representatives, or if you think you need to establish a criteria by which the size of the diaspora will be proportionally determined by the number of representatives. I'm telling you, it would be a huge congregation, which absolutely couldn't be functional. This is a representative body and in this sense it represents our people around the world in a way that allows every part of the world to be represented and, on the other hand, to give meaning to those parts of the world where our diaspora has more.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28674	Thank you. I'm setting a break by 15.00 hours. [[After break – 15/05]] Gentlemen, I apologize for this delay. I had wives, sisters and mothers of missing persons, and I really couldn't stop until it made sense. That's the reason, and I'm really sorry. National MP Zoran Nikolic has a word, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28676	We were worried about where you were, but now that you've made that clear, there's no problem. Although, one of the vice presidents could have come. I must say, in response to the amendment to Article 18, the minister has also raised some questions worth answering. He said it was false. I wasn't telling the truth or the truth, I was asking questions, which the minister absolutely had no answer to. And since he expressed his satisfaction that the Rules of Procedure gave great democratic rights to the MPs, I am, behold, using that right. Although, it's absolutely not within the scope of your jurisdiction. You are here, in parliament, a guest, and on what kind of a Rules of Procedure, whether it is democratic or not, the interpretation is originally given by the People's MPs. One more thing, don't mention the DSS, talk about its political position, ratings or I don't know what it is, because it simply indicates in the best possible way that you have no argument to answer what we're asking you here as a question. Besides, in order to be qualified to talk about the DSS, you need to go to the polls on your own and break the censorship, which you have in no way succeeded in the last 15 years.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28677	Mr. Chiquiriz has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28678	I just wanted to draw attention to one fact, which I was talking about in the principle debate. When we talk about amendments, and there have been very high-quality amendments from all MP groups, it seems to me that in the most part of the discussion the awareness that we are still seen by our citizens from the diaspora. But it is not correct to mention that, let's say, the Republic of Latvia gives one delegate. It is well seen in Article 18 that this one delegate for Latvia is also a delegate for the Republic of Poland, the Czech Republic, the Slovak Republic, Estonia and the Republic of Lithuania. Then the Russian Federation gives one, because this delegate to the Russian Federation is also a delegate to both Ukraine and the Republic of Belarus. I'm only saying this to the public, and by the way, President, I didn't make it to the beginning of the session this morning because of traffic problems. Yesterday, apparently, there was no electronic connection between me and you as chairman. If the other day Mr. Markicevic could have spoken to the National Assembly from a pay phone, I think I should have gotten that right last night. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28679	I'm sorry, it is my failure. Let me just inform you that, in accordance with Article 85(5), we will continue our work until the end of the period after 1800 hours and it is very likely that we will not work tomorrow. The National MP Branimir Djokic submitted the title above article 18 and Article 18 of the amendment. Here you go, Mr. Dickie.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28680	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, how about this article 18? I think Mr. Minister has already heard a lot of objections with his associates to Article 18, so I think that if the minister wants this law to succeed in some way and to adopt it here in the Assembly and to get some consensus of all political parties, I think he should have a little flexibility and understanding, because our amendments are going in the right direction, and to take advantage of the well-meaning of the MPs, because otherwise this law will not get its application even if he may vote most of the votes. Therefore, not to say again, Mr Nikolic has already asked the question of how the number 44 occurred and how the representatives of this assembly will be elected. Of course, we didn't get that answer from Mr. Minister, and as I can see, we're probably not going to get it, and that remains an open question that no one here knows anymore, we can only guess and assume. The amendment I submitted tried to make some adjustments, according to some of our observations, to make some balance, and we made some other relationship between the delegates of that assembly. Of course, that proposal was rejected and I think it's absurd to discuss it now. Our discussion will be heard, and probably the minister will accept what he feels is necessary.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28681	Mr. Srdjan Sretkovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28682	Since the desire to ask the same question in the second part of television is the same question that we discussed at the end of the afternoon, I will be happy to answer again. So we worked very carefully, in consultations with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and our diplomatic and consular representations, that when defining the number and structure of delegates in the Diaspora Assembly and Serbs in the region we have seen the fact that between three and four million of our people live literally around the world and that in some countries it is larger, and in some countries a smaller number of our distributions. We tried to get representatives to the countries or parts of the countries where our diaspora is located, even if in some countries there are few representatives of the diaspora. We wanted, like participation, to work examples, at the World Cup in football, when all continents have the opportunity to have their representatives, their representatives, so that our diaspora people have the opportunity to choose their representatives in the diaspora Assembly and Serbs in the region. Of course, we made sure that in those countries where the largest number of members of our diaspora, in the United States, Canada, Australia and these key countries of Western Europe, there are more representatives. We also took care of the fact that we're not making a bulky body that's going to turn into a debate club, but that it's people who really want to get to work and start dealing with these issues. Believe me, we've been measuring very carefully for months and assessing what number of delegates would be optimal for certain states or parts of the state and I think we can figure out that we've come up with solutions that will allow the Diaspora Assembly and Serbs in the region to be functional, that it doesn't happen like with some earlier diaspora-related bodies, to be a dead letter on paper. I am convinced that this will be a truly new beginning and that it will allow much better co-operation with our state bodies.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28683	On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Relations with Serbs outside Serbia tabled an amendment to Article 18. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 18th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandar Chotric, Aleksandar Jugovic, Mirko Cikiriz and Zika Gojkovic. The government and the Committee on Relations with Serbs outside Serbia have accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MPs Aleksandar Čotric, Aleksandar Jugovic, Mirko Cikiriz and Zika Gojkovic together submitted an amendment to Article 18. The government and the Committee on Relations with Serbs outside Serbia have not accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Milorad Buha has submitted an amendment to Article 18. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Mr. Buha, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28684	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, the SRS, when considering the bill, defined itself as two congregations -- one assembly, which will cover all problems, interests and rights of the Serbs in the diaspora, and another, which will include numerous problems for Serbs in the environment. Without two congregations, according to the SRS' position and opinion, the accumulated problem of Serbs in the region cannot be resolved, as well as numerous problems facing Serbs in the diaspora. In this amendment of the SRS, we have proposed a Serb assembly in the region and we have appointed delegates who will form this assembly, so we have proposed that six delegates in the region be given by Republika Srpska, Montenegro and Republika Srpska Krajina by two delegates in the region for the Republic of Hungary, Romania, the Republic of Bulgaria, Greece, the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Croatia, the Federation of BiH, the Republic of Macedonia and the Republic of Albania. That would be the assembly's composition. The nearer conditions for the election of delegates would be agreedly determined by the Committee on Relations with Serbs outside Serbia's National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in co-operation with the competent ministry, according to the diaspora ministry. We continue to believe that the minister, the ministry and the government should consider our initiative. Unfortunately, we had no understanding by the minister. I think it's pragmatic, because these congregations will discuss more thoroughly, more seriously, all the problems Serbs in the region face rather than the joint assembly that we have in the bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28685	Mr. Secretary wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28686	Since this amendment concludes a whole series of amendments relating to the MPs' initiative that we have separate congregations, for diaspora and Serbs in the region, I would like to say that our definition that this assembly should be one and one. In our firm belief, it should be a symbol of unity, on the one hand - the state of Serbia, and on the other hand - of all our citizens living outside the borders of our country, regardless of their national, religious or any other belonging and of all the members of the Serb people, regardless of their place of birth or place of residence. We believe that in this way, after a whole series of years where we have witnessed great numbers and our national defeats, and I would say national disunity, by establishing a congregation like this, we will finally create a climate of unity and a common performance. I believe that the functioning of this congregation is actually going to be one of the key instruments that these great gaps between certain parts of the same people are finally closing down, and I think that in this sense this assembly is really going to be a manifestation of unity. As for the operationalisation of strategic decisions that this assembly will make, do not forget that the Diaspora Assembly and Serbs in the region will not, like the National Assembly, which is our highest legislative body, make laws, but will make strategic decisions and define the directions in which the executive authority should move. In that sense, while respecting your argument, I am convinced that it is better for the diaspora and Serbs in the region to be one unique, precisely because of everything that has been happening to our country and people in the last 20 years.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28687	The 19th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Nikolic, Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic-Markovic and Zeljko Tomic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Mrs. Milica Vojić-Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28688	Madam President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I must draw attention to the public as well as to the people of the diaspora who are looking at this, to one thing that is becoming symbolic, as the minister likes to talk about symbols, which should be very clear to all of us today. I followed very closely all of us who were exposed in principle to this law and saw what any of the parliamentary groups had to comment on and what they were saying. Now I see, and I watched and when we got the amendments, it was out of the nine amendments that were adopted in total, five from the SPO. A fellow member of the NS parliamentary group commented that they submitted the amendment, apparently in the morning, so that it was later prescribed by the SPS people. Of course, I have nothing to blame my colleagues from the SPO, they defend their minister and their ministry, but it is not right if the minister accepts only their amendments. They're obviously in a function to fix a text that's obviously scrawny. The second thing I want to comment on, I think it's really symbolic, the minister, very well echoed in public, that the other MPs really worked here hard, submitted a bunch of amendments that were rejected just like that, casually. One of the same, which passes through several members, the hour is accepted, the hour rejected. I told you: 9, 4, 16 - Amendments to the DSS parliamentary group, compare. You accepted four, and nine and 16 didn't, although it's exactly the same formula. So, it's a final judgment that's accepted, which is not accepted. I have no right to be angry. I'm from the opposition party. I have the right to speak of this law and I want to speak further. You comment that the Assembly was designed to be a symbol of unity. In fact, it will be a symbol of discord, because many organizations will not be able to agree on a representative. Some of you will have to judge, although you say you won't, but there's something called a mistake, a failure, where we usually say what we think, and we're writing something else, and it happens to you all the time here during the presentation of this law. So you'll decide which people it will be. As the break lasted, the diaspora people called, called the parliamentary group. They claim that 44, or 45 (wrongly calculated in the first booze) pictures are already available for representatives of the congregation. The lady next to you laughs terribly, I guess she's holding those pictures in the drawer, after I guessed about what was subconscious. It's also interesting that you compare the diaspora Assembly to the football championship. Thank you for that. I was counting on you to prefer some other sport, since you're seen on official trips right on those tournaments, but I can see that you're also following this kind of sport right now. I'll talk to you later about some things that need further comment. I don't want to use MP time.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28689	Member of the 19th Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 19th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandar Chotric, Aleksandar Jugovic, Mirko Cikiriz and Zika Gojkovic. The government and the Committee on Relations with Serbs outside Serbia have accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Milan Škrbić submitted an amendment to Article 19. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment, MPs Donka Banović, Zoran Nikolic, Milica Vojić-Markovic and Željko Tomic submitted together. Mrs. Milica Vojic-Markovic wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28690	Since I have announced that I will speak further, I want to exercise my right. Actually, I want to ask you a question that you're not giving us an answer to. You read us your pamphlet, which is beautifully written, and I would have voted for that pamphlet if I hadn't read the law, but you're not telling us what we're asking you. And we ask you – please, do you have records of Serb organisations in the diaspora and Serbs in the region? Is she real? Yes or no? How precise is it? Furthermore, you do not tell us what are the criteria and modalities for selecting delegates of the Assembly. Nothing about it. Please, make that clear. We ask you – is it possible that you do not have an indication of how long the term of office of delegates is? That's what we're asking you. You answer us. How long does the delegation's term last? How long does the term of office last? Very simple, say - four years, eight years, 12 years, for life. In particular, please. Stay out of demagogy. We ask you very clear questions that need to show that this law is hollow, and you haven't answered a single question. You keep telling us - I said something. You did say something, but you didn't answer the question. Please. I'll have specific questions again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28691	Mr. Srdjan Sretkovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28692	I firmly believe that the time when the Central Committee was conducting who, how and in what way, would be chosen and elected in the diaspora, has passed for all time. Our diaspora people asked for it, and I gladly accepted their intensity. So, without any influence from the state, our representatives of our associations and organisations will elect their representative in the Diaspora Assembly and Serbs in the region. Our wish was for them to determine the duration of their delegates' mandate, however, we accepted the amendment, and some of the opposition parties, although believe me, I did not at any time care whether the amendment came from one or another parliamentary group. No law has ever been passed in the Serbian Parliament after a longer, more democratic and open public debate as it is with the diaspora law and Serbs in the region. More than 600 round tables and public stands have been held, and the work version of the law has been sent before to 2,400 addresses of our associations, organizations and prominent individuals. Otherwise, the Diaspora Ministry I am leading is the first state body to form a base for our associations and organizations after 1945. I'm proud of it, ma'am. All these people have had their chance to make concrete suggestions, suggestions, remarks, criticisms (which I insisted on, because unlike you, I do not like to be centralisedly managed and to set certain conditions). So people were making proposals and all the proposals that were in the spirit of this law, in line with the definition of the Serbian state to be a modern civilized country, which is attached to international law, which wants to be part of the modern world, which wants to be an economic and political leader in the Western Balkans and a leader in the region... We have proposed this law firmly believing that the time has passed for the demagogue stories and the deception of our people from the diaspora and the dispersion. That's why this law is a good start and a good step. It's not ideal, it's not perfect, like no legal act is, but I'm sure the results will be obvious, as it's obvious that the diaspora ministry in this assembly, in the previous year, has done much more than some previous decades, unfortunately. That's what our diaspora people feel, and I'm grateful to everyone for that.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28693	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The word has been made by MP Mirko Chikiriz, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28694	Mrs. Vojić-Markovic is very good at representing her parliamentary group, I have great respect for her as MPs, but there is no need, I would pray again, first of all, for the diaspora, if we were telling the truth. On September 29th, our parliamentary group submitted its amendments to the reception press. You submitted your amendments on September 30th, which is also visible in the reception press. So we couldn't rewrite it from you, nor could anyone here be psychic. We don't need to burden the diaspora, which is extremely interested because the first time this important law is passed, with these trivialities. I also want, for maybe the fifth time, to say that this is, of course, not party law. Maybe it's some higher justice, because we probably paid the most attention to immigration, especially political emigration, to the honor of the SPO that its minister proposes such a law. Still, no one has the exclusive right to patriotism. We don't have it from the SPO, and neither do you from the DSS. Let's discuss this law together really qualifiedly, for the sake of our people abroad, and then we'll have the opportunity to settle all our party differences in some other debates here.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28695	The 20th amendment was submitted by MP Branimir Djokic, who wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28696	Please, one more time I want to speak to Mr. Secretary. Everyone here is calling for some agreement, and for your party's representatives, to agree that this law is good, that it is in the interest of citizens, that it is in the interest of the entire diaspora. How is it possible, Mr. Minister, that all of us here are invited to agree, and that by this moment, you really have not accepted any of the amendments that we have submitted, of these 125, other than those nine that you have accepted and a few of them, afterwards? All these amendments, which we pray for here and appeal for, are fundamental amendments, which would completely solve the diaspora problem. Is it possible that from so many MPs who have submitted amendments, no one knows the issue, but only you know it? You talk about the Central Committee and some things all the time. Where is there a little good hearing and democracy, to say - wait, if these amendments are really worth it and if they solve the fundamental problem of this law, let's break that agony and say - we accept the amendment that there will be two congregations? How do these delegates choose? Why is there no Bulgaria and Greece in the region? Why wasn't there even a president of the Serbian Parliament in the Council for Relations with Serbs in the region? You even threw out the president of the Committee on Relations with Serbs outside Serbia. You have passed our entire assembly committee here, or the entire congregation has passed. The strategy is decided - the government makes a proposal, you decide. Everything you do, the ministries and the government. What does this congregation mean here if neither our amendments nor our appeals are worth anything? And you're just calling for an agreement on behalf of some good law for the benefit of the state and three million people living outside Serbia. Please, what is happening today in the Assembly is pure demagogy.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28697	There's a word Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28698	The proposal, therefore, was accepted by the Serbian government by amendments to opposition MPs to make the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia a member of the Council for Relations with Serbs in the region and the Parliament of the Diaspora and Serbs in the region. We are pleased to accept such a proposal, just as we have accepted all the proposals, all the amendments to the Assembly Committee on Serbs outside Serbia, whose president you are, Mr Djokic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28699	The 20th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buha, who wants a word. First Mr. Djokic. But how? You're out of time. (Branimir Djokic, from the place: Replica. There is no basis for replication. No, please, there's no basis. There was nothing offensive, nothing vague. Mr. Secretary has just explained and given an answer to your findings. Mr. Buha, do you want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28700	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable citizens of Serbia, my amendment refers to the SRS' proposal for two-cameral parliaments, and we believe that it is the Ministry's mistake and the government's mistake not to accept it. Now I'm going to tell you on a specific case of what it would mean to have two congregations. You last year, I mean the Ministry of Diaspora, called one conference to which you invited all representatives of Serbs from the region and we received very much information about the very difficult situation of the Serb population in the countries of the region. All regional Serbs present at the conference have made it clear what huge problems they face in those countries. There is enormous discrimination and assimilation of our lives in these countries. The Ministry must have a counter-response. What's been done in these years on the matter of removing at least part of that problem? Minister, you had to come out here and explain it, because it's an acute problem and the Assembly must be interested. The next task of the ministry must be to gather adequate ministers. As you are the minister of diaspora, there is probably no such thing in all countries, but there are state authorities dealing with this problem and who must also come to a conference that you must call and where you must resolve, start solving problems facing Serbs in the region. No such relationship, no solving all these problems, no luck, no success. You have to, as you called that conference, call everyone here and talk to them and look for a solution. There's a huge problem with Serbs.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28701	The 21st Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banovic, Zoran Nikolic, Milica Vojic-Markovic and Zeljko Tomic. Mrs. Vojic-Markovic wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28702	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the demagogue that the minister is trying to put up with is really embarrassing. Let you talk about how big a Democrats you are. There's nothing I should know about that, and I'm not interested in it. I'm interested in the law. And when I read your law, I see how big a Democrats you are. Because in this law you have decided that the diaspora cannot be decided by the diaspora, it will be decided by the Ministry and the Government. And then you decided that nothing should be known about it, not even the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, because it's all one democratic rule. So, I wouldn't go any further on your concept of democracy. I just don't want to talk about it because it really offends intelligence and morality. But I'd like to add one new question that I've asked you. Since you said you had a precise record of how many organizations there are, I would ask you to answer me the number and number in which country there are and, if possible, to provide it in writing, in the form of an answer to the parliamentary question. Because what you have now said is directly contrary to what the previous SPO member said in that place, Mr. Vojislav Vukcevic. He said something else. He said he wrote it down to the organization. I've got an article here and his interview. Now I really don't know, you guys make a deal with the party who wrote that down. The questions remain the same, so please answer my questions. Don't wrap up in all sorts of coasts and floscules. The questions are simple. So, you said you had organization records. Can you just tell me the number today, and we'll figure it out later? And then answer me about the criteria and the modes to choose delegates. How long does the term of office last? Imagine, you're saying they need delegates to agree on how long their mandate will take. I can't believe it. Or the diaspora will agree on how long the mandate will take. That's ridiculous. Please, it's in the law, by the way. It's supposed to be in the law, and it's not in yours. So, on simple questions, I ask simple answers, to precise questions -- precise answers. Don't read to me what you wrote in your explanation, I know it by heart.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28703	The 21st amendment was submitted by MP Branimir Djokic, who wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28704	I'm going to rely on the previous discussion, just to be clear that Mr. Secretary's statement is not correct. As you can see, there are twenty members of the ruling coalition here in the Assembly. When it's voter day, this hall will come true, people will come in and vote for this bill. Of course, not knowing what it's about. So it happened on the Committee on Serbs outside Serbia, where, as a ruling coalition, you provided the majority. We've been through all these amendments, it was all over very quickly -- you voted against those amendments. As an opposition, we didn't stand a chance. You are now referring to how the Committee has made such a decision. Of course, when you have most. It's all right. You'll also pass the law most of the time, but you can't say it's democratic and you respect our opinion. You went beyond the fact that there is no president in the Council of Serbia's Assembly, that there is no chairman of the Committee on Serbs outside Serbia, so later, on our insistence, you inserted him into the council to be president of the assembly. But that's why you put in an AP official, the Executive Council. For what reason, it's not clear to anyone here. Such anomalies appear in this law countless times, and we don't get an answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28705	The 21st Amendment was filed by the People's MP, the Verica Radet, who wants a word. Here you go, Mrs. Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28706	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs of the SRS have also tried you, Mr. Minister, and the ruling majority, to draw attention to a major problem and the great drawback contained in this law in principle. We have indeed submitted all these amendments with good reason and have tried to make it clear from the very beginning that our position under this law is such that we think that this law, the truth with a different title and with a very different content, should exist in the legal system of the state of Serbia. Unfortunately, you obviously didn't realize it and you have another intention. Your intention to pass this law is, unfortunately, that's what you once said in the course of the reasoning, in order to see how you will get as much money out of the diaspora into Serbia. Of course, such an intention, when it is consistent with the law and when it comes to good intentions, is nothing that is unacceptable, but if that's the only goal and we're talking about all the bells that we're making, that diaspora law so that we don't know how to protect the diaspora in order to allow them to vote, and we all know well that only the DKP representatives vote in the diaspora... It has been said today that almost all MPs from the opposition have similar objections. Our fundamental remark is also contained in this amendment, where we predicted that the Serb Assembly in the region made decisions by majority of votes at a session attended by most delegates, i.e. this is a trail of our amendments, where we also insist on the Serb assembly in the region.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28707	The 22nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banovic, Zoran Nikolic, Milica Vojic-Markovic and Zeljko Tomic. Mrs. Vojic-Markovic wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28708	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. Minister, I'd like to take one sentence to look back at what Mr. Chiquiriz was saying. The party I belong to, the DSS, is really very important that every law that comes to the Assembly is prepared, because we are working on the well-being of citizens. It doesn't matter if that law is good and it comes from the government, we vote for that law. I'll remind you, we voted for some of the environmental laws. So, if this law were good, we would vote for it. Of course, as mature and adult people, as members of a very serious party, we do not view patriotism as belonging to one or the other or to another party, but we believe that patriotism is really something that each of us MPs is about in particular, and especially members of the government, we should keep an eye on when we pass laws. We can't share the diaspora, Mr. Chikiriz, just because we're an opposition party. We don't propose laws, we just react to concrete laws. We're trying to convince you that this law shares the diaspora. This law will split the diaspora fat. 'Cause, I'm sorry, I didn't get an answer to the question. If 30 organizations from Sweden give 30 delegates, let's make it five delegates, who's the one who's going to determine which delegate is going to represent Sweden? I'll show you later, when this session is over, the messages I get on my cell phone from different people I don't know at all, who aren't party people, they're diaspora people, what they think about what we're talking about here today and what we're doing. One of the five candidates has to choose one. Answer me the criteria on which to choose and answer me who will be chosen. That question will divide the diaspora. Very loose and fragile relationships exist between organisations in the diaspora. Perhaps most of all, the SPC is working together. It is now happening that this law will divide both fragile and loose ties and contribute to the further divisions of the Serbian people.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28709	Member of the 22nd amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 22 of the amendment was submitted by a group of 20 MPs of the "Forward, Serbia" group. Mr. Zoran Antic wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28710	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment is, in fact, a technical editorial, because it was our desire to make it clear in law that the assembly was held once a year. We think that too is a failure, along with many of the failures spoken by my fellow MPs from all the parliamentary groups, when it comes to the Assembly, and that, without a doubt, we will have a lot of problems in the application of this law. These institutions and institutes that are scheduled, we will see in the next period how they will live. I would use this moment to ask Mr. Minister to do something about the diaspora, when it comes to their relatives, something that can be done now, to do this moment. It is about what Mr. Mihajlovic was talking about, and that is to say that in the next draft of the budget, one shameful principle is to be abolished in the small environments, and they are mostly lagging environments, and from which people went to the stomach with bread all over Europe and around the world, that these environments, based on the fact that these people in the diaspora, are removing funds. First of all, I mean Despotovac and Svilajnac municipalities, since they're municipalities in my region. There's nothing better than the Tupri municipality. When you have 7,650 people on temporary work abroad in a municipality that has 33,000 inhabitants and when you have to transfer funds to these municipalities, they shrink by so much, almost a quarter. I think that these municipalities are significantly disabled in relation to other municipalities and that in this way they show disrespect for these people. The state has not invested in these environments for decades, their economy is in a catastrophic state, privatisation has further devastated them, and the same people, as you yourself admit, are entering about four to five billion foreign exchange funds, maintain a foreign exchange account. Approximately, they say, about 12% of GDP is VAT. Only through VAT and those five billion, and not to mention that they have a significant impact on the financial sector, on retail sales, wholesale sales, on importers, these foreign exchanges are imports of goods into Serbia, means only on this basis they put at least 600-700m euros into the budget, and I think it is much more if the effects of the money they send to Serbia were properly seen. Therefore, fight, I hope that some MPs from the government will stand behind what they were talking about yesterday, fight that in these municipalities these people are not involved, or that the number of residents on this basis is not reduced. Allow these municipalities to at least pave the way, fill the holes to the homes of those people who are on temporary work abroad.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28711	National MP Branimir Djokic has submitted an amendment to Article 22 and wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28712	We're going around these congregations again. The SRS believed that the ministry would hear about what we proposed two congregations for, and we suggested that because diaspora, people living in Canada, Australia, America and around the world, they have other problems than Serbs living in the environment of the Serbian state. Of course, these two congregations would have completely different dealings with problems. I can see that our proposal is not being respected, so I don't think it's important that I read the amendment. So let the minister decide for himself what to do next and how to solve these problems that will come safely, and time will show.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28713	National MPs Donka Banović, Nikola Lazic, Milica Vojic-Markovic and Željko Tomic together submitted the title above Articles 23rd and 23rd amendment. Mrs. Donka Banovic wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28714	We propose to delete the title above Article 23, which is the advice of the Assembly, as well as Article 23. This is in line with our view that we feel that such a congregation should not be formed and that all those members who predict the formation of this congregation should be deleted from this law. Otherwise, it states in this article that the Assembly will form three permanent working bodies, which are the Economic Council of Diaspora, the Diaspora Status Affairs Council and the Council for Cultural, Educational, Scientific and Sports Cooperation. Otherwise, let me remind you, there are no tips in all ministries but departments or at least people dealing with certain problems. For example, in the Ministry of Education, you have people who deal with extra education issues abroad for the children of our emigrants. What is unusual about this law is that nowhere can you see how this congregation and these working bodies will be financed. You have to admit that by law you predict the formation of a significant number of permanent working bodies, there will probably be some temporary ones. The bill's proposals usually include an analysis of the proposed ministry in question of how much funding should be provided for the implementation of the law. There is no such thing in this bill. But there is a reason that only MPs get along with the bill, where it is said, "The implementation of this law does not require additional financial resources in the Republic of Serbia's budget." This is very unusual. Then you could tell us how this will be financed, how the delegates, who are 45, will be able to do their job and come to this one session that you are predicting by this law or how these permanent working bodies will meet. Among other things, you say that these councils will be able to hire experts in certain areas to assist in the work. How will these experts be paid? This points to the fact that delegates are respected in their midst. I don't mean to be indignant, but will it be those who will be able to hold on financially to their engagement in this assembly and in these working bodies? They'll have to meet. How will they work and who will bear the costs?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28715	You've just wasted your MP's time. The authorised representative has 10 minutes left. The title above Article 23 and Article 23 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric, who wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28716	The government has proposed that Serbs outside Serbia be represented in one assembly, and we propose with our amendments that there are two congregations: a Serb assembly from the former Yugoslav republics and, second, a Serb assembly from other states. Simply, we believe that the issues and problems plagued by Serbs from Croatia, BiH and, say, Montenegro have almost nothing in common with Serbs living in Australia or the United States. Folkly speaking, it's two worlds, different and geographical and historical and essential. Serbs in Croatia and BiH are plagued by the issue of return, collective security, collective status, war damage compensation, the discovery of missing wartime events and other issues that do not have nearly any touch points with Serbs in the diaspora. On the other hand, Serbs in the diaspora are mostly plagued by the issue of their economic status, the issue of maintaining cultural ties with the birthplace and, in a very small percentage, the question of investment in Serbia. The government also acknowledges by the fact that in the whole bill, it speaks of Serbs in the region and Serbs in the diaspora. For this reason, I am more surprised by this insistence that they be represented in a congregation. I really think that they can have one congregation, at symbol level maybe it's not bad at all, but I actually think it's a bad solution because they're literally not going to have a common theme. They'll have nothing to talk about. Since our amendments, the amendments to the opposition, are fundamentally changing this bill, I know it's hard to adopt them. I think it's really the best solution to pull this bill out of the process, to respect these useful solutions and suggestions, and to go to the National Assembly with a new bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28717	The 23rd amendment was submitted by a group of 20 MPs of the 'Forward, Serbia' group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Milorad Buha has submitted an amendment to Article 23 and wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28718	For many years, the SRS has been proposing that the government have in its composition a refugee ministry and internally displaced persons. Unfortunately, this desire of the SRS and the desire of the internally displaced population are not met, and that is why we have a huge problem with people who have genocide policy, persecution, ethnic cleansing come to these premises, and the issue of their property remains unresolved in other countries. Unfortunately, in legal regulations defining the work of the ministries, we have only one provision in the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy Act, which defines the jurisdiction of refugees and internally displaced persons, and we will have through this law, when we adopt it, for the Diaspora Ministry, which will have certain responsibilities for refugees and internally displaced persons. But no matter what, there is one constitutional obligation. This is Article 13, which obliges all state authorities of the Republic of Serbia to protect the interests and rights of the evasive population, internally displaced persons living in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. That is why it is the ministry's task, as far as today, to tackle the issue of succession. That's the most important question. The issue of succession lies between 30 billion and 50 billion euros financially. It's about former social property, state property and private property. Most of it's private property. The huge rights Serbs had in the former Yugoslav states have not been resolved. That is why it is the task of this ministry and the government to urgently bring in and hire the Commission for Succession to resolve these issues.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28719	National MPs Donka Banovic, Nikola Lazic, Milica Vojic-Markovic and Željko Tomic together submitted the 24th amendment. Mrs. Vojic-Markovic wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28720	I just thought that Mr. Sretkovic was a very modest man, who has not boasted until now, but after telling us what he did first in this ministry, I have to read him what the people of the diaspora tell him, and very respectable people. For example, Dejan Ilic, one of our most successful businessmen in the world, says he is familiar with the text of the new diaspora law because he is not interested in theories and meetings where big stories are told. "I'm not interested in the Diaspora Ministry. When I need something, I contact the ministries directly (as we tell you). If Dinkic and Djelic can't solve our problem, I call President Tadic. It is important that we all work to bring as many investors into the country as possible, which requires political stability and security, not theorisation." That's what the diaspora people tell you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28721	On the title above Article 24 and Article 24 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Žutic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 24 of the amendment was submitted by a group of 20 MPs of the 'Forward, Serbia' group. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Mr. Zoran Antic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28722	Article 24 refers to the Economic Council. I'd just like to say a few words. We would not even explain some amendments, as my colleague, Mico Rogovic, is not presently there because of party obligations, and he prepared them. I think it's important to say that we get the impression that there is a delusion that in this economy as it is today in Serbia we can expect God to know the interest of our diaspora for investment. In previous times, their investments proved to be very low. I think one reason why we don't have other foreign investments is because foreign investors look primarily at our diaspora. Our diaspora has no trust in the country of origin. If she doesn't trust and invests so little, how can we expect anything from foreign investors? Therefore, the Economic Council itself will mean, but until the business climate in Serbia is changed, until the incentives are designed, until the macronivos come down to the micronivo, and we do our best to produce much more, create, not only to borrow and sell what we have left in some former times, there will be no interest in our diaspora, and especially if it is taken into account that small and medium-sized enterprises, businesses that need to protect the state in terms of being a legal state, that there is a judiciary, that they can, without any specific costs, enter into any arrangement in a state where there is no corruption, in which there is no crime, in a country where there is a market. That's what they expect. It's not there. Therefore, I am sorry, but this economic advice, as it is imagined, will unfortunately not justify its purpose, but today I can argue.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28723	Members of the 24th Amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Antic. Do you want a word? Mr. Duvnjak, you have reported on your amendment, which is next, which is on Article 24. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28724	Dear People's MPs, the SRS sees as a completely different problem facing Serbs in the region and Serbs. Therefore, special members should be installed in this bill for the formation and establishment of separate congregations dealing with various problems. It is necessary, as well as my amendment to Article 24, where a new member of 24a is added, for the sake of operationality to form separate economic councils of Serbs in the diaspora and Serbs in the region and advice on culture, education, science and sports co-operation, while only the Diaspora Status Affairs Council would remain. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I expected the minister of the diaspora to point out where the word diaspora came from. Many knew that, but we found an explanation in the Serbian encyclopedia that the word diaspora of Greek origin means the dispersion, the dispersion of the people after the conquering wars, or religious municipalities of members of the same religions scattered in areas and countries of other religion. As an MP for the SRS parliamentary group, I would like to point out that the topic discussed by the draft law on diaspora and Serbs in the region, which we are discussing, is of paramount importance both for Serbs in Serbia and Serbs in the diaspora and the region. That is why every Serb, wherever he lives and works, is important to the state of Serbia. With that in mind, we expected the Ministry of Diaspora to show an approximate number of Serbs living and working in the area. This information is also important not only for those of us who live in Serbia and who are having a debate on the bill, but also for the general public.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28725	The 25th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banovic, Nikola Lazic, Milica Vojic-Markovic and Zeljko Tomic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) A group of MPs of the "Forward, Serbia" group submitted to the title above Article 25 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Articles 25 and 25 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Verica Radeta, who wants a word. Here you go, Mrs. Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28726	A little while ago, when I explained the amendment to Article 21, the government said, in an explanation, that the amendment does not accept, and the amendments are essentially the same. He says, "The amendment is not accepted because the bill does not foresee the formation of a special Serb assembly in the region, so there is no need to regulate how decisions are made." That's unfortunately true. And that's what the Serbian Radical Party insists on, in fact, to do so, but this answer is sincere and accurate. But then I don't understand why, when we wrote this amendment to Article 25 and predicted that -- this member is otherwise talking about the Diaspora Status Affairs Council. We added "diaspora and Serbs in the region", therefore again in line with our view that there is a need to distinguish diaspora and Serbs in the region - and you wrote that you do not accept this amendment because there is inconsistencies between the text of the title of the proposed amendment and the proposed contents of the article to which the amendment applies. Mr. Sretkovic, I suggest you tell your associates that when they explain why you do not accept the amendments, they read all the amendments. Because immediately behind this is the amendment of counterpart Mirko Munjic, whom he will talk about, which is a follow-up, and which, united with this, represents a Council for the status issues of diaspora and Serbs in the region. Of course, if you had accepted my amendment, it would have been a logical trail to accept the next one. So it would be nice if you had responded honestly here, as well as on the first amendment, that you are not interested in Serbs from the region.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28727	Mr. Secretary wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28728	On the contrary, for the first time, a council for Serbs in the region, headed by the President of the Republic, will be established, making it clear to all our country and country in the environment that we wish, in accordance with international law, to support the Serbian people in achieving their international standards of guaranteed political, cultural, economic and all other rights. On the other hand, the Council for Serbs in the region will be a clear indication that we as a state want to be an economic and political leader in the Western Balkans, but that at the same time we are also a leader in developing regional co-operation and good neighbourly relations. In this regard, I believe that the Council for Serbs in the region will make a major contribution not only to improving the position of Serb peoples in countries in the region, but also to speeding up the Euro-integration flows of all countries in our region, for the benefit of all.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28729	The 25th Amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic, who wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28730	This amendment is a logical continuation of the previous amendment. In addition to the economic council of the diaspora, the Board for the status issues of the diaspora, as well as the Council for Cultural, Educational, Scientific and Sports Cooperation as the Council of the Assembly, we have proposed another council of the Assembly. It is the Council for Status Affairs of Serbs in the region. On the value scale of the priority issues of Serbs from the diaspora and Serbs from the region, there are a number of important issues that touch Serbs from the region more directly. It is the status issues of Serbs in the region, and that is why we are also predicting this special council, the Council for the Status Affairs of Serbs in the region. The council should address certain issues, i.e. to propose measures to improve the position and protection of the national, collective and individual rights of the Serb people in the region, certain issues related to the involvement of members of the Serb people from the region in the social and political life of the Republic of Serbia, as well as to improve conditions for the exercise of the Serb electoral rights in the region and to give initiatives for the adoption of regulations concerning the regulation of military obligations and other personal and property rights of Serbs in the region. The government's explanation says the law's motion that the diaspora assembly and Serbs in the region be the pregnant institution of the new country's relationship. In fact, this sentence speaks precisely in favour of this amendment, and we think it should be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28731	The 26th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banovic, Nikola Lazic and Milica Vojic-Markovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 26th Amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric, who wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28732	Ladies and gentlemen of the ruling majority, your main problem is, and that is the state problem, since you are in power, that you are not leading your policy towards Serbs outside Serbia on the basis of some long-term strategy, because you do not have it, but rather on the basis of the most party, party interests and your personal relations with representatives of Serbs outside Serbia. I'll give you two examples. The first example is Radovan Karadzic. At the beginning of the war in BiH, the group now gathered around the DS was very critical of Radovan Karadzic and the defence war fought by Serbs in BiH, only for the reason that Radovan Karadzic was very close to Slobodan Milosevic at the time and the regime in Belgrade. In the current government of Serbia, there is even one party whose president spoke – if I had to participate in the war in BiH, I would have no choice, I would have fought on the side of Muslims. Two years later, you were with the same Radovan Karadzic at the Palace of the Flea, only because he was in bad relations with Milosevic at the time and because you estimated that it would raise your rating with the electoral body. At the end of last year, again because of party interests, you sold this Radovan Karadzic to The Hague tribunal. Now you have a similar relationship to Milorad Dodik. I remind Serbian citizens that at the beginning of the last election campaign, Milorad Dodik spoke at the G17 pre-election rally in Loznica. Twenty days later, he spoke at a pre-election meeting of the DS in Novi Sad, and then, I remember well, he urged citizens to vote for the DS, and in no case vote for the SRS. In the end, Milorad Dodik spoke at the final rally of the ZES group in the Belgrade arena. I believe that the use of the prime minister of Republika Srpska for pre-election purposes neither Serbia nor Republika Srpska had any benefit. Republika Srpska has lost support for the work of Serbian citizens who believe that the president, or the prime minister of Republika Srpska, should not interfere in internal affairs...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28733	Thank you. Mr. Minister, you have your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28734	I can't help it if I don't make a joke at least for a moment in the assembly. If only we had roasted lambs and pigs on the Mount, and the ox on the palaces, believe me. About Radovan Karadzic and his policy we have always had the same, identical and unchanged attitude since he came to power in Republika Srpska and I think that policy, unfortunately, has ended badly. Just don't impute things to me that we didn't have anything to do with. So we've never burned oxen in the palaces.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28735	There's no basis for replication, Mr. Maric. The 26th Amendment was submitted by a group of 20 MPs of the 'Forward, Serbia' group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 26 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Antic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Aleksandar Martinovic submitted an amendment to Article 26. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 28 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branimir Djokić. Here you go, Mr. Dickie.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28736	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Chairman, I have submitted the amendment, believing that our proposals to have two congregations and two councils would be incorporated into the law. I have submitted an amendment to Article 28 that should be addressed by the Committee for Relations with Serbs in the region. However, I see that it is absurd to discuss this, because it is rejected and such proposals are not accepted, so I think it is absurd and read this amendment and what the Council should do. I'd only add one thing. Mr. Sretkovic was just reading members of the Council. These are: President of the Republic of Serbia, Prime Minister, Foreign Affairs Minister, Diaspora Minister, Education Minister, Culture Minister, Minister of Justice, Finance Minister, President of the Executive Council of the AP Vojvodina, SPC, Commissioner for Refugees of the Republic of Serbia. We talked a little while ago that there was no president of the assembly here. Probably the president of the assembly didn't deserve to be on this council, but that's why an AP Vojvodina Executive Council representative has a special function. Only the minister is clear about why. Of course, there is no representative of the Committee on Serbs outside Serbia. The law completely bypasses the Serbian Parliament as a legislative body. The Committee on Serbs outside Serbia, which deals with the topic, has been bypassed. In this law, it's all out. There's a direct link between the Government and the Ministry. What do you even add to all this? The answer has not been received, but I have received an answer to the question why there is no representative of Kosovo. You said if I wasn't wrong, that if we said so, we'd admit it was independent... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28737	Time. Thank you. Member of the 29th amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Jankovic. Here you go, Mrs. Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28738	Article 29 is amended as follows: "The members of the Council are: President of the Republic of Serbia, President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, representatives of parliamentary groups in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, President of the Committee on Relations with Serbs outside Serbia, Prime Minister of Foreign Affairs, Minister of Diaspora, Minister for Education, Minister for Culture, Minister for Culture, Minister for Religion, Minister for Finance, Representative of the Serbian Orthodox Church and Commissioner for the Refugees of the Republic of Serbia." New Serbia believes co-operation with Serbs in the region is a business of general national importance, which means representation of both the authorities and the opposition in this council. But what a relationship to the opposition is, we've seen that before. So, out of over 123 amendments, nine were adopted and the vast majority were amendments to the SPO. We have every reason to be dissatisfied, we who have studied this law very thoroughly, and unfortunately also people living in diaspora. What is very interesting, meanwhile, has been informed by the government that the government's rapporteur at the National Assembly about regulating the obligation of the Republic of Serbia to the IMF will be the minister of diaspora, Mr Srdjan Srekovic. There's really a question about what this is about. Or is it a savings channel that one minister defends all laws, from agriculture through finance to information, or does the famous idea of always inspired Minister of Science God Djelic about the rotation of ministers be realized? Since we already have two multipractical ministers, he was the minister of trade, this Slobodan Milosavljevic, who defended military laws, and now the minister of diaspora, who is an expert in finance, then perhaps...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28739	Thank you. Bring the end, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28740	I still have time from the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28741	Yes, you can. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28742	So, since we already have these multipractical ministers, maybe you should really think about reducing the number of ministers and ministries instead of thinking about firing more than 3,000 people, officials in the state administration, because the minister can play multipractical, and these civil servants have really multiple jobs in practice. We might even be able to leave only the Prime Minister and leave this country, this tortured people, without such a stupid, paralyzed and vermin government. One thing is certain, Minister Sretkovic has shown that he has a gift for marketing, as much longer exposés predicted in this afternoon's part, in "prime-time" (that's what they call it). If I were Srdjan Shaper and Krstic, I'd be seriously worried. You're their serious competition. Who knows, you might be the minister who is also a media adviser to the president of Serbia. What's also true is that the minister failed to make all the legal screw-ups in this law on his own. From the very beginning, from Article 2, there is a mess called - bad criteria on the basis of which the concept of the region is determined. Because, it is said -- these are the touch limits with Serbia, whether in the former SFRY, Serbian people there are indigenous, Serbian people there are minorities, etc. From the list absolutely is not a clear criterion by which these countries are chosen in the environment. It's like eenie, roast, roast; now I want this one, and I don't want this one. Furthermore, the claim that there are no Serbs living there today in Bulgaria and Greece is both ridiculous and stupid. Just that there's only one, this country is obliged to take care of him or to point out in the diaspora law how long it takes for the ministry to take care of them, and how much for the minister to go on an official visit to the state's account. Mrs. Milica Vojic-Markovic has already spoken and quoted the diaspora's comments. I said, speaking in principle, I didn't see a positive comment. Either those who support you are illiterate or simply there is no one who has supported this draft diaspora law. The claim that there are not enough Serbs in Austria either deny comments on the Diaspora site and the daily list "Politika". The problem is that these Serbs are not registered, and to a large extent, the absence of proper treatment is the result of a considerable lack of awareness of the representatives of our country, which not even one form or text cannot be printed in Serbian (so much about the preservation of Serbian language and Cyrillic), so our people get them in new Croatian, with all those terms: association, care, economy. For example, the Austrian Chamber of Commerce, which people receive every two months, as well as a series of texts concerning taxes and many other life issues, are written in Croatian, although there are at least Croats from the former SFRY in Austria. But the Croats were up-to-date. There are so many Serbs who have graduated German in Serbia, living in Austria, it is only a matter of our state institutions to contact the Austrians and solve the problem. What a concern for Serbs in Republika Srpska, I've already spoken. What is the concern of Serbs in the Federation of BiH - so now, it's not exactly zero, but it's almost zero. It's like the Serbs in that Federation don't exist. Various youth organizations, especially the Ovčar Association and Kablara in Banjaluca, sent you at least 20 e-mails, and nothing. Here is the data from your official site, the first half of 2009 -- 66 organisations received from 100,000 to 500,000 dinars, and only one went to the Serbs in the Federation of BiH, 100,000 dinars for the opening of a library and reading room in Sarajevo. Well, really, God help them. So if it wasn't for the SPC, the Serbs in the Federation of BiH would be almost invisible. So, if our goal is a strong state and strong diaspora, then a system of co-operation must be applied to Serbian companies from the Federation of BiH, such as Republika Srpska. What does that mean? This means that the input VAT remains in Serbia, which is also achieved by strengthening Serbia and Serbs in Republika Srpska. A quite opposite example is many companies that, practically, made contracts with the Federation of BiH so that the entry VAT stays in the Federation of BiH, actually funded the BiH Federation's lawsuit against Serbia. Another amazing legal nonsensus concerns the registration of organisations in the diaspora and the organisation of Serbs in the region. Why is this record kept? What's the problem? This term includes both administrative procedure and two-stageness. Look, Mr. Minister, I'm not a lawyer either, but New Serbia's legal team has looked at this and said this -- there's a General Administrative Procedure Act, which, in Article 161(1), says -- the authorities issue credentials, i.e. other documents, certificates, certificates and other facts on which they keep official records... So you don't know exactly what you're thinking here. Is this something that is subject to the General Administrative Procedure Act or is this diaspora law? What record are you talking about?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28743	The 29th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Verica Radet, who wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28744	Article 29. The draft law on diaspora and Serbs in the region speaks of the composition of the Council. You, Minister, have proposed members of the Council. In one part, our amendment agrees with this proposal of yours. In fact, we do not have a proposal to delete any of the persons you have provided for in the bill, but we think it would be comprehensive and that it would really be of general interest to accept our amendment and to, in addition to the person you provided for the Council's composition, be representatives of the MP groups in the NSRS, president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, president of the Committee on Relations with Serbs outside Serbia. Why are we thinking this? Because relations with Serbs outside Serbia (I use this term because it is a term that we in the SRS otherwise use and in our party programme it is, as such, contained) is not exclusively state business. It is both the work of the National Assembly and the general work and must include both representatives of the government and representatives of the opposition. You don't have a diaspora deed in any way (when I say, I don't mean you personally, but I mean the government, the regime, the ruling coalition) and we can't pro-forme in this Parliament that we exist as some committees and committee presidents, etc., and when that committee is supposed to show up somewhere in action, to do something that's in the works of this committee, then we have a disturbance that you no less than you regulate in law. This is a really bad solution.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28745	The parliamentary group 'Forward, Serbia' has submitted to Article 29 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Mr Antic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28746	It is about forming a body whose existence and formation should be pro-commentated, as the Council for Relations with Serbs in the region includes, above all, ministers. Of course, there are also the Prime Minister and the inevitable President of the Republic, but it seems to us, listening to the experiences of your predecessors, ministers who before you, Mr. Minister, have performed this duty, that this council will essentially not live. Your predecessor, Mr. Vojislav Vukkovic, has often complained that it is very difficult to bring together ministers because they are too busy, that the situation in the country is very difficult, that there are always a lot of jobs, and that when they feel the need to discuss some issues that touch the diaspora, they cannot gather them, or they find various excuses that they will not come, so as not to attend, and the jobs that touch your ministry are very difficult to complete. Therefore, the fact is that this time you have opted for the same set of ministers. From this experience, we can now assume that this advice will be very ineffective, and what we have proposed with our amendment, I think it was quite normal and acceptable. I'm sorry you didn't accept that. If you were not already satisfied with this proposal regarding the participation of representatives with KIM, then it was perfectly normal for the President of the Diaspora Assembly to join the Council, which you had foreseen to form this law. If there's anyone in this council, it's him. I'm sorry you didn't understand that at least in this part you would accept the SNS amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28747	Members of the 29th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandar Chotric, Aleksandar Jugovic, Mirko Cikiriz and Zika Gojkovic. The government and the Committee on Relations with Serbs outside Serbia have accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 29th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banovic, Zoran Nikolic and Milica Vojic-Markovic. Mr. Zoran Nikolic wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28748	Many amendments have been tabled to Article 29, concerning the composition of the Council for Relations with Serbs in the region. For the sake of the public, I would like to reiterate that the members of the Council will act: the President of the Republic, the Prime Minister, the foreign affairs ministers, the diaspora, education, culture, religion and finance, the President of the Executive Council of the Republic of Vojvodina, the SPC representative and the Commissioner for the Refugees of the Republic of Serbia. Our amendment also requires that the president of the National Assembly enter the council, because it is unusual for this bill to bypass the Assembly. I think the president of the Committee on Serbs outside Serbia also deserves his place there, as it is the most numerous committee in the assembly. There must be a connection between that working body and this council. What we insist on is that it is inadmissible, if there is already a president of the Executive Council of the AP Vojvodina, that there is no representative of the AP KIM. We have proposed this amendment to be president of the assembly of Serb municipalities in KIM. We're aware of the fact that we don't have an executive AP kim, but there has to be a representative. I told you in a principle debate that if you have already put the president of the Vojvodina Executive Council, then you have sent a message that you are giving up the Serbs in KIM and do not give them the right to participate in issues that are of their vital interest in a body called the Council for Relations with Serbs in the region. What you have done is counter-constitutional, because the Constitution obliges you to, given that there is an AP KIM, there are representatives of AP KIM. You don't want to. You gave one in my book an inconclusive explanation. I told you, if you don't accept this amendment, you're giving up the Serbs from KIM, because you're giving up the government that exists on KIM. Let me remind you, we have district chiefs there, county presidents, there's also the KIM Community Assembly. It's an organ that perfectly legitimately and legally represents Serbs with KIM. Answer me what the problem is for the president of the KIM Community Assembly to be in this council. If you give me any excessive answer, I'll be ready to accept it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28749	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28750	The Serbian government has accepted the amendment that the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia be a member of the Council for Relations with Serbs in the region. The president of the Executive Council of the AP Vojvodina is a member of the Council for Relations with Serbs in the region because of a large number of exiled and exiled persons living in the territory of Vojvodina, which are majo from Croatia, the former Republika Srpska Krajina, and Republika Srpska, or BiH. Our opinion and our firm position is that including KIM representatives in this council would be an indirect recognition of KIM independence, as the Serbs in Cosmet would be declaring Serbs in the region, and this government of Serbia, nor I as minister, would never agree.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28751	Mr. Nikolic, you have your word. Here you go. There's no reason for the replica. You're not offended. You can speak within the time group of MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28752	I'm sorry if we don't share a common sense of insult with regard to what the minister said. So, he said that if a representative with KIM joins the Council for Relations with Serbs in the region, that act will recognise the independence of KIM. If that's not an insult to me as a citizen and as a MP, but also to this Parliament, whose president you are, then I don't know what an insult is. Because to say that someone who is to enter the body is denied, precisely because we have KIM as an autonomous province and it is an integral part of our country, by saying that if it enters the body, it will be an act of recognition, then you don't even know what the state is, you don't even know what the act of declaring independence of Kosovo, and you don't know what it is to fight false independence of Kosovo. Then you don't know anything, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28753	Mr. Secretary has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28754	You're yelling again without need. I remind you that this is the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and that you should act in accordance with the general civil standards. So, this government of Serbia, and I am confident of any of the following, in no way, directly or indirectly, or indirectly or directly, will recognise Kosovo's independence. Our constitutional obligation is to fight with all diplomatic means, in accordance with international law, for KIM to remain within Serbia and to be sure that this business is the government, and I am confident that each of the following is as attached as possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28755	National MPs Donka Banovic, Zeljko Tomic and Milica Vojic-Markovic together submitted the 30th amendment. The word is Mrs. Milica Vojic-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28756	The DSS has submitted an amendment to Article 30, which reads in the law: "The Council has a secretary who participates in the work of the Council without the right to decide. The Secretary of the Council shall take care of the implementation of the conclusions and other acts of the Council and shall carry out other tasks set out in the Rules of Procedure and other general acts of the Council. The Secretary of the Council shall be appointed by the Council, on a proposal from the President of the Republic." We felt that this was pointless and this Article 30, we reshaped it this way: "The Secretary, appointed by the Council, takes care of the execution of the conclusions and other acts of the Council and performs other tasks set out in the Rules of Procedure and other general acts of the Council." It's a much better formulation, but apparently it's not well received. Probably the signatories weren't adequate. And I really can't believe what I heard, what Mr. Minister said about Kosovo. I can't believe it. This is terrible, I can't believe it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28757	The 30th Amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic, who wants a word. Here you go, Mr. Lightning.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28758	Article 30 regulates the issue of Secretary-General of the Council and says in its view that the Council has a secretary, who participates in the work of the Council without the right to decide. The second position speaks of what the old secretary, and in the third position, which is the subject of this amendment, is said to be the Council's secretary, on the proposal of the President of the Republic. We have requested by amendment that the Secretary of the Council be appointed by the Council, most of the votes on the proposal of one-third of the Council members, and we consider this to be the most acceptable solution. In his explanation, the Government said: "Amendment is not accepted for the reasons why the Secretary of the Council, in the sense of the bill, does not participate in the work of the Council and has no right to decide". Mr. Minister, we have not asked this amendment for the secretary to participate in the work of the Council, nor have we asked that he have the right to decide on this council. We just referred to the question of who should be asked by the Secretary of the Council and the proposal to whom he should be appointed, that is, to be the proposal of one third of the members of the Council. You asked the president of the Republic of Serbia to do this. Our argument is that, after so many functions, responsibilities and jobs, this would really be a lot for the President of the Republic. If you, like us, want to at least relieve the President of the Republic, then accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28759	The 32nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic, Nikola Lazic, Donka Banovic and Zoran Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. He's got Mrs. Donka Banovic's word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28760	We, in practice, propose a new position on this amendment 2, and I see that the text itself has made a mistake and writes itself - the second position. We propose a new position 2, which reads: "The Council adopts a Rules of Procedure on Labour, which is closer to regulating issues of importance for the work of the Council". I can say that this is, practically, by us, technically better-organized Article 32, and then automatically ceases the need for the existence of Article 33, because article 33 is entitled "Employee on the Work of the Council", and then goes the sentence: "The Council brings the Rules of Procedure to work... "We believe that this should not be particularly singled out as a member, but that it can stand within Rule 32, where the Council's workings are regulated, and that member should also say that the Council brings a Rules of Procedure on work.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28761	The 32nd Amendment was submitted by a group of 20 MPs of the 'Forward, Serbia' group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MPs Milica Vojić-Markovic, Nikola Lazic, Donka Banović and Zoran Nikolic together submitted the title above Articles 33 and 33 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee for Relations with Serbs outside Serbia, submitted an amendment to a regular number ahead of the budget fund for diaspora and Serbs in the region. Mr. Secretary has a word. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28762	The Serbian government has accepted all four amendments to the Assembly Committee on Relations with Serbs outside Serbia, which are amendments to Articles 4, 18, 34 and the title of the Fifth Head, which refers to the Budget Fund for Diaspora and Serbs in the region. I thank the Committee on Relations with Serbs outside Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28763	The 34th Amendment was submitted by a group of 20 MPs of the 'Forward, Serbia' group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 34 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Žutić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) To Article 34. The Committee on Relations with Serbs outside Serbia has submitted an amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) This amendment was accepted by the Government and we had the opportunity to hear the amendment earlier. Member of the 35th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic, who wants a word. Here you go, Mr. Crassy.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28764	Depending on what the government has accepted and what the Committee has proposed, this really raises the question of whether there can be a budget fund in this area at all. Because over-explanatory interpretation of the Budgetary System Act can fool and create the impression that it is possible to make some budget funds in this area. But I don't think that's possible. A team before this law went beyond one declaration, a simple resolution. There are hardly any coherent norms, there are not even infringements, there are no criminal provisions, so it's almost impossible to break this law. You probably wrote it because of that champagne, he says - I just knocked, I don't submit to the offense. This is where you threw out the violations, so no one can make a mistake. There's a problem. The problem is, this law doesn't have its own substance, it doesn't have its own soul. There is no first degree or second degree procedure here. There's no administrative matter here. Here, from the board's point of view, there are only some software-analytical-professional transactions at the level of analysis, and there are no administrative acts. That's where we go back to the original. I remember these election campaigns of ours, when apparently Serbian funds and foundations from Croatia participated in a competition that Vukkovic had called, took the funds, but were obliged to report at some convention, in some stands, to support whoever was in power. Then there's the question of what the state is funding. It finances some private affairs, some private combinations, and there is no concern at all about the vital interests of people who pretend to be Serbs and live abroad. That is why this budget fund, if it comes to life, will also be one transmission, which will allow the use of funds to be misused in order to achieve political objectives. Who? Those in power in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28765	National MPs Donka Banovic, Nikola Lazic and Milica Vojic-Markovic together submitted the 37th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) He has the word Mrs. Milica Vojic-Markovic. Here you go. (Verica Radeta, from town: A Krasic, in Article 36? ) On Article 36 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic, who wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28766	So that I don't repeat it now, because it's similar and it's one whole, here, I'm going to suggest something. Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, pay attention. If we trust Mr. Sretkovic, somewhere around four million Serbs can be covered by this bill. If, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, you and I could take the opportunity to open one site and invite all Serbs in the distance to pay one euro each year for Serbia's development and make an organ that will control it through the site and show it all completely transparent -- these are collected, four million euros invested for this street, in this village, for waterway, for sewers, etc. - the effect would be 25,000 times greater than any budget fund. They never thought of that. They're interested in the lambs and pigs on flat mountain. That's their problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28767	National MPs Donka Banovic, Nikola Lazic and Milica Vojic-Markovic together submitted the 37th amendment. Mrs. Milica Vojic-Markovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28768	Madam President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in Article 37(2), which otherwise reads: "The Ministry of Diaspora shall publish a public ad for the award of fees for learning Serbian and Cyrillic letters in the country of origin (hereinafter referred to as "public ad") on the website of the ministry", we added: "it also informs registered organisations in the diaspora and the region". Apparently, there is a discrepancy between those organisations in the field getting information and what the minister says, that he gets complete information from them. He tells us here that he contacted absolutely with all these organizations and that he has their support. That is why we felt that it was necessary to really reach these people in the diaspora and the region, because notifying these people is extremely important. The diaspora must be informed of everything that is going on here and therefore not only should you announce such public competitions on your websites, but you must deliver these calls to the Serbs in the diaspora and the region.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28769	MPs Zeljko Tomic and Zoran Nikolic submitted together to the 37th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 37 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric, who wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28770	Ladies and gentlemen, in line with the position of the SRS that there are two congregations, we propose to these amendments that there are two budgetary funds. Mr. Minister, I don't know anything about roasting those pigs and lambs on flat mountain. All I know is that at that time, while you under the banners, the Chetnik flags and tents were storming the lambs and pigs heroically, only 200km away, the real Serbian Chetniks fought heroically to defend Serbian villages and cities. You could only watch it on TV when you came down from Straight Mountain. As far as the ox is concerned, he was burned by Zoran Djindjic and those from the DS, along with Radovan Karadzic. We of the SRS don't mind them hanging out at the Palace at all. The only thing that bothers us is that he was killed by the party interests of the DS, not the national interests. As far as we're concerned, we'd be happy if they were the ox with Radovan Karadzic in both 1991 and 1995 and 2005, and in 2009, and that, where good luck goes, they'd burn it together in 2010. However, as you know, it is impossible, because they handed Radovan Karadzic over to The Hague tribunal.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28771	Could you go back to the amendment, please? I ask Members to speak within the content of the amendment. Member of the 37th Amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Duvnjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28772	Dear People's MPs, I believe that the Proposer will accept the amendment to be in Article 37(4). The proposal for a law of the word ‘Minister in charge’ replaces the words ‘Minister in charge’. The position of the SRS is that the tasks of this member should be carried out by the ministry, as a state body, not a minister, as an individual. In the remainder of time, I will say something about Republika Srpska, seeing as most of the ruling majority do not know everything about it. Republika Srpska has 61 municipalities with 2,753 settlements, a total area of 25,053 km. Although the Dayton Peace Agreement guarantees territorial continuity, Republika Srpska is divided into eastern and western sections by the Brcko district. Three years after the war, the district was declared by US mediator Robert Owen on the basis of the authority given to him by Slobodan Milosevic on behalf of Republika Srpska unauthorized. Republika Srpska has about 1,470,000 inhabitants, Serbs are 90%, Muslims 7% and Croats 3%. The employees of Republika Srpska are 257,000 or 17.48%. The average salary is 300 euros. There are 140,000 registered at the Employment Bureau. Approximately 200,000 pensioners receive an average of about 150 euros, or 13,000 dinars a month. There are two state universities, with 30,500 students and six private students, with 8,000 students. In 789 elementary schools, two of which are private, the course is attended by 115,000 students, including 11,100 tops. In 88 high schools there are 48,332 students. This means that every seventh resident of Republika Srpska is a student or student.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28773	You're out of time. Thank you. Members of the 38th Amendment in the same text were submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jankovic and Vjerica Radet. There's a word for Mrs. Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28774	The SRS proposes that the Diaspora Council be educated by the National Assembly in place of the Government and it is written in the amendment: "The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia educates the Diaspora Council to discuss specific issues, to give proposals, opinions and professional explanations regarding the determination and conduct of policies towards the diaspora, as well as by giving opinions and proposing activities that will be primarily financed by the Budget Fund for Diaspora." The position of the SRS is that this council must be educated by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. All our MPs during this debate in particular tried to draw attention to the representatives of the regime that diaspora, I repeat, is not a problem and is not only a topic for those who are government, but a diaspora is something that all the people in Serbia who deal with politics, which means, above all, MPs in the National Assembly, and MPs and MPs of the opposition. The government's explanation for why it does not accept the amendment is, Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic, indeed within the framework of the amendment, but out of common sense. The Government says: 'Amendment shall not be accepted for reasons contrary to the provisions of Article 33(2). The Government Act, which stipulates that the Government can educate the occasional working bodies to consider certain issues from its jurisdiction and to make proposals, opinions and expert explanations." Where, in this amendment, we have, in any way, usurped the government's jurisdiction or wronged Article 33(2). The Law on the Government of the Republic of Serbia? So, obviously again, the promoter did not make sure that he did not seriously do the bill, but there is no good will, there is no intention that by accepting our amendments the law is brought into as many acceptable frameworks as possible, I suppose, then only for the majority.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28775	Members of the 39th amendment were submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jankovic and Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Donka Banović, Nikola Lazic and Milica Vojic-Markovic submitted to the 39th amendment. Mrs. Donka Banovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28776	Article 39 speaks of the composition of this second council, the Diaspora Council, and says: “The Diaspora Council is made up of representatives... “, and seven-eight ministries are now listed. Of course, there's a bypassed assembly again. So the draft law did not provide for a representative of the Assembly to enter the Diaspora Council. I can tell you, Minister, that you are quite inconsistencies, because you have accepted the amendment that in the Council for Relations with Serbs in the region you will be a representative of the Assembly, i.e. the president of the Assembly and president of the Committee on Serbs outside Serbia. I don't see why you didn't accept that a representative of the National Assembly would be in this council.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28777	The 39th Amendment was submitted by a group of 20 MPs of the "Forward, Serbia". Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 40th amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment, in the same text, was submitted to Article 41 by the MPs Aleksandra Jankovic and Gordana Pop-Lazic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mrs. Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28778	The 41st and amendment we have submitted to this article is our principled position, in which we have been trying since the 2nd member to convince the government's representative, that instead of the "parent state", it should be said everywhere: "Republic of Serbia", with a clear explanation, which we have repeated on many occasions, and I think it is unnecessary to convince you again that Serbs are a constituent people and in other countries in the environment, above all in Montenegro, Bosnia and Herzegovina and Croatia, and not only in Serbia. I would like to add something to the presentation of my colleague, Mr Krasic, who followed the entire course of today's debate and gave one truly rooted remark about this law, which is the lack of any sanctions, which is why one law is lost. Therefore, it seems to me, that my proposal from the beginning of today's debate, that we should have passed this into one resolution, which would have been and how strong, and given in that resolution the authority of the government or the ministry responsible for the diaspora to do all that you normally prescribed to do, had much more importance than you entered into the making of a law that we obviously divided about, not just us here, but also the Serbs in the diaspora.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28779	The 42nd amendment was submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jankovic and Aleksandar Martinovic in the same text. Mr. Martinovic wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28780	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, we have proposed that in Article 42, in the position of the 1st Amendment, it reads: "On the proposal of the Council for Relations with Serbs in the region and the Diaspora Council, the ministry responsible for the diaspora is assigned national recognitions for outstanding contributions, results and merits in the area of achieving co-operation and strengthening the ties of the Republic of Serbia and Serbs in the region, as well as the Republic of Serbia and the diaspora." However, the government has rejected this amendment, explaining that the bill provides for the conditions and procedure for granting national recognitions in the area of country and diaspora relations, as well as the country of origin and Serbs in the region, the minister responsible for the diaspora prescribes. Again, we are facing the problem that one substance, which should be regulated by law, will not be regulated by law, but will be regulated by a sublaw of the ministry. We believe that such a solution, in the nomotechnical sense of that word, is not good, that it should be regulated by law. Because what else is the law? If this matter is to be regulated by the Underlaw Act of the Ministry, then everything could be regulated by the Underlaw Act of the Ministry, not by law. If we already approach the adoption of this, according to the government -- an epochal law on Serbia's relations with Serbs in the diaspora, with Serbs in the region, then the law should be comprehensive, complete and that all issues concerning Serbia's relations with Serbs in the diaspora and with Serbs in the region should be regulated by law. Why could the Council for Relations with Serbs in the region and the Diaspora Council not propose to the Ministry of Diaspora to award national recognitions, but the government rejects the amendment and says – conditions and procedures will be prescribed by the Ministry? Then you could propose a law with only one member -- anything concerning Serbia's relations with Serbs in the diaspora and Serbs in the region, will be regulated by the ministry's sublaw.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28781	Parliamentarians Zeljko Tomic and Zoran Nikolic submitted the 42nd amendment together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 42nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banović, Milica Vojic-Markovic and Nikola Lazic. The government and the Committee on Relations with Serbs outside Serbia have accepted the amendment. Mrs. Milica Vojic-Markovic wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28782	Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I thank you on behalf of the DSS parliamentary group for accepting this amendment for the award for politics to be called Slobodan Jovanovic, because the DSS is really trying very hard to keep the name of Mr. Slobodan Jovanovic, the great Serb and the great politician and the great scientist, really not dirty. But I want to remind you, Minister, that you haven't answered those simple questions I asked you. I'm sorry if I'm yelling because I don't think you can hear me at all. That's why I'm going to repeat the questions and ask you to answer me for the rest of our discussion. Number of organisations, criteria and modality for selecting delegates in the Assembly? What is the delegation's mandate? What is the term of office of the Assembly? Whom do the decisions made by this congregation bind? You haven't answered any of my questions, and I'd really appreciate it if you did it all the way.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28783	The 42nd amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric, who has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28784	Ladies and gentlemen, with my amendment, I propose that the conditions for granting national recognitions, when it comes to Serbs outside Serbia, be prescribed by the Diaspora Council and the Council for Serbs in the region. I would like to draw attention to the fact that Serbia's policy of non-loathing and advocacy towards neighbouring countries must replace a policy of determined insistence on respect for international law, respect for Serbia's state interests and respect for the national interest of the Serbian people in Croatia, BiH and Montenegro. In the case of Croatia, Serbia must press charges against a permanent international court of justice in The Hague against Croatia for a crime against peace, which is by international law more serious than genocide. I remind you, on 10 April 1992, at a rally in Zagreb, Franjo Tudjman said Croatia caused war to fight independence. Serbia must insist on respecting the UN Charter and UN Security Council Resolution 743, which refer to the status of Republika Srpska. I remind you, these resolutions have never been abolished, never been put out of force, and practically, according to the current Security Council resolutions, Republika Srpska's Krajina still exists as a Serb entity in Croatia. Serbia should insist that the UN fulfil its obligations under the UN Charter and those resolutions and end the Croatian occupation of Republika Srpska. Serbia must establish reciprocity in relations with Croatia. Whatever relationship the Croatian state will have with Serbs in Croatia in the future, such a relationship should have with the Croats in Serbia. Serbia must press charges against the ongoing International Court of Justice against the Muslim-Croatian part of BiH for causing war and crimes against peace. I recall, in his memoirs Ali Izetbegovic admits that he chose independence and war between peace and independence and war. Finally, the Republic of Serbia must insist consistently on respecting the Dayton Agreement and on fighting with all means.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28785	The 44th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh, who has a word. Here you go, Mr. Buha.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28786	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable citizens of Serbia, are near the end of the debate in particular, and the ruling majority will surely pass this law. But what's important for the Ministry, it's that you get primate in diaspora business, in businesses where refugees, internally displaced persons arise, and it's a big responsibility on you. The earlier we found, one of the most important, in my view, the most important task is to finish the work of the succession, which is on you, because this stems from an international agreement signed and ratified in all the countries of the former Yugoslavia, to end the issue of the destroyed private property of the people living in the former Yugoslavia, the issue of pensions, basic social security, the question of social housing. Just two cases. The pension issue regulated the agreement between Serbia and Croatia as early as 2003. And today we have twenty thousand people waiting for retirement. This is good as regards the agreement with Slovenia, signed by our government and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, but it does not mean anything unless we implement the agreement. The social security agreement between Croatia and Serbia is not in place. As for apartments owned by Serbs in Croatia, no apartment is returned. All BiH apartments have been returned. The black spot is on the international community, and you have to tell international mentors, and especially Croatia, which does nothing to return those apartments. You multiply fifty thousand apartments by 50,000 euros, what the average value of the apartment is, and then you'll see what amount it's about. Property, social and all other rights must be resolved. On behalf of the SRS, I promise you'll get a parliamentary question every month.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28787	The 45th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic-Markovic and Nikola Lazic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Mrs. Banovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28788	We suggest that this article reads: "The representatives of Articles 29 and 39 of this law will be set within 60 days of the date of entry into force of this law", because the proposal stands - 30 days. I'll remind you, these are representatives in the Assembly and these councils that are being set up. I don't remember anyone ever giving a shorter term for setting a representative or forming a working body. I don't think you'll be able to make it in these 60 days, let alone 30, unless you've already got people ready, which, by this short deadline, would give you a conclusion. As I started yesterday, I'm going to describe this law as a law-shaped void, so one frame with no serious content. You don't think any means are necessary to enforce this law. You don't have any criminal provisions here, not in the sense that someone should be punished, but a law that doesn't oblige anyone. You didn't define who these working bodies' decisions and implementation are bound by, so this is an empty frame.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28789	The 45th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Antic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed the examination of the draft law in particular, does Mr Srdjan Sredkovic, the minister of diaspora, want to give the final word? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Lucky. Mr. Bortić, you didn't sign up. I already gave my word to Mr. Secretary. I'm sorry. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28790	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank all those who have made their contribution to coming together as high-quality as possible of the first law on diaspora and Serbs in the region. I think we all did a lot of it together. I thank all associations, organizations and individuals from the diaspora who have contributed. I thank all political parties, regardless of whether they come from the ruling or opposition bloc, and those who were more and those who were less well-intentioned. I would like to stress that no legal text is perfect, so it is probably not this one either, but I am convinced that this is a new beginning, that we are laying the foundation of a new long-term policy towards diaspora and Serbs in the region and that, as a state and serious and responsible people, we can reach a broad consensus, regardless of the interests of political parties and day policy. This law, unfortunately, cannot solve all the problems of the diaspora and Serbs in the region, but by adopting this law, for the first time, we are creating institutional mechanisms to implement a policy that will allow millions of our people around the world and from the region to get an opportunity to engage more actively in Serbia's developments, but also to get support from Serbia that has been missing too long. The political, cultural, economic and lobbying potentials of our distribution are enormous, as are their desire to have the nearest possible co-operation relations with the state of Serbia, relations based on mutual respect and understanding, and I absolutely support them. The very fact that diaspora and Serbs in the region for the first time have received their law shows that never before has the state of Serbia and its state-level summit attached so much importance to the issue of dissipation and that they have never dealt with this problem so thoroughly. The main starting point of this law is the first and irreplaceable goal - to facilitate and speed up the path towards the EU and all other international integrations, because it is the only way to have an economically strong and politically influential state. Our firm commitment and strategic goal is to be an economic and political leader in the Western Balkans, which means a factor in regional stability and economic development. We want to be a modern and democratic state that respects international law, but also protects our national and national interests and cultivates the closest possible co-operation with our people from all over the world. In the end, I want to tell our public and citizens of Serbia who are watching us that our relationship with diaspora and Serbs in the region has been too long and unfair and insufficiently responsible, and I think we owe them much more. Everyone must be aware that every investment in a policy towards diaspora and Serbs in the region will be returned to us as a country and that is why I believe that by starting this new policy and adopting this law, we will also contribute to the historic reconciliation of the different parts of the same people. Thank you all.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28791	Thank you, Mr. Minister. I am concluding a review of the draft law on diaspora and Serbs in the region in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 17th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on the Regulation on the Obligation of the Republic of Serbia under the International Monetary Fund under the basis of the ALOCATION OF SPECIFIC RIGHTS OF LEVELS APPROVED BY THE COMMITTEE OF THE GOVERNER NUMBER 64-3 AND THE NUMBER 52-4 (single) You have received an amendment which has been submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Parliamentary Group in advance, Serbia under the bill of law. You received the Government's opinion on the amendment. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. A group of 21 MPs of the "Forward, Serbia" group submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28792	I have one question. Since I'm the only applicant for the amendment, can I use time 15 plus 25, or are you going to separate it?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28793	You can use that time. Mrs. Tabakovic, I'm sorry, Mr. Todorovic joined up next to you. I thought there were no more interested. (Mr. Todorovic, don't throw away. ) So, you will use your right first as an authorised promoter, then I will give my word to Mr. Todorovic, and then again to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28794	First of all, I want to express my surprise that I am the only one, on behalf of the MP group "Forward, Serbia", who has submitted an amendment and thus allowed all of us to talk about, I think, one of the most important points of this agenda. I'm really happy that I did it, because I think the impatience that counts in this assembly room for seconds while MPs speak, but they don't save the same way and resources in the government when they're spent, the thing that needs to worry all of us. Madam President, please don't warn me if I talk a little bit about the IMF's budget loan procedure. Unfortunately, I feel quite neglected and abused as an MP, as well as many of my colleagues, because the Assembly has been acting as an outcast authority of the government, an authority of the administration in the system of things these last days. I'm really sorry to have to say this, but as far as I'm concerned, by who's the agenda promoter, whose agenda points are coming to the debate and voting, who's making the agenda, how many agendas, how much time we have to prepare for that agenda, is really talking about the complete disenfranchisement of congregation work, to the extent that even we have a scenario to be a method of saving time and not informing the public about attitudes under certain amendments. Should the Committee have opinions, whether the Committee should discuss matters, whether the majority will gather on the Committee, whether the opposition even knows where the delegation will go (e.g. in the Netherlands? Someone doesn't have to know that, at the last minute, the Committee is informed that someone has to go somewhere. I'm really very unhappy that we've come to such a situation that the time and the time and the budget of how long the debate will take, when it's over, becomes more important than the very essence of the law that here, in fact, regulates the lives of all of us. This law is really like that. On the agenda you sent us 21 for a session scheduled for 26. There are 53 agenda points to be prepared on Friday, Saturday and Sunday. Are we family people, do we have a duty, do we have physical opportunities to do that - it doesn't matter. When the law comes to the congregation, it is otherwise already under discussion, approved, or otherwise approved. As an MP, you made it clear to me that, when I submit the amendment, the government adopted it, as was the previous law that meant borrowing from commercial banks, 90m euros for the budget deficit, once you have adopted the amendment, what I have to report and explain what was contained in the amendment. Last time, that was July 29th, I had to convince myself that I had a business right, because my amendment wasn't rejected but adopted, and that it was not a voting procedure but a debate, I had to choose to even talk about the amendment that we, as a parliamentary group, delivered. Well, this time the government says, when you don't want to shut up already, but you're explaining, now we're refusing the amendment, with an explanation that the solution contained in the amendment is already, in fact, in law and written. Namely, since we are in debt with the IMF under favourable terms of the current 0.26% interest, I have, to convince the amendment, submitted on behalf of the parliamentary group a solution which will earlier be expensive and more unfavourable loans to those who are eligible. Which a well-intentioned man and a well-intentioned government would refuse such an amendment, except for the one who has rejected it, although it is also stated in the explanation that this credit, and they say that it is not a credit, is not conditioned by any specific conditions that the Government should fulfil and, on the contrary, that it can serve to pay off earlier loans, i.e. to refinance existing obligations. As taught in the 2001 example, when the newly approved loan was used almost to fully pay off the liabilities, in fact, to return to the IMF and that those who have trusted in the International Fund are at peace with our new commitments, I submit an amendment, especially in an explanation, that it takes a loan, which costs 4,75% of the eurobor plus 1% of the total value of the credit-pulling and plus margins... So he's at an annual level costing 6% plus one-time 1% withdrawal. The previous one was taken from commercial banks, and I say that it should now be replaced by these cheap ones, because the economy in which production needs to be developed must be credited with business, these commercial banks, which, by this refinance, would really free the 90m euros from using the economy. Our very government, the opinion is signed by Mr Cvetkovic, says: "How is the Fund's recommendation that when deciding on the use of the funds received, members should be guided by the aim of ensuring, in the context of the global crisis, the regular service of financial obligations to abroad, which means also the refinancing of existing debt by more favourable means, based on general and specific allocations of the special rights of drawback, the addition of Article 3 which is proposed by the amendment is excessive." The government forgets that a 90m-euro loan, which is voted here, is in euros. But does the government, the National Bank, or those who are referring to what ino-obligations are to be refinanced, these loans taken from banks based in the country, ino-obligations? I cannot assess that from this, although it is a commitment in the euro, but these are the banks of Alphabank Serbia, Vojvodjanska Banka Novi Sad and Pireus Banka Belgrade. In order to avoid the suspicion that this new IMF loan, favourablely, would be refinanced by some obligation that comes from the IMF, we asked that what you say is to be explicitly stated. No, it refuses to explain, even offensive, to say publicly, because the bill regulates the obligations of the Republic of Serbia towards the IMF, not the budget deficit, or the debt of the Republic of Serbia, so that the subject matter of the bill is not, what we are asking, to establish priorities for debt refinancing, i.e. to replace loans with cheap ones. This is offensive to those who know what a line is in Serbian. If he says "the bill doesn't treat the budget deficit," and this is exactly what these funds are for covering the budget deficit, I don't understand how Mr. Cvetkovic agreed to sign this argument. So the funds are for covering the deficit, but they don't treat the budget deficit as a matter that's governed by this law. This kind of arrogance that shows the rejection of both good advice and support of the opposition is part of the general refusal to help anyone in this Serbia to do better, we do not separate ourselves from those who regulate our lives and us who need to suffer and depend on the goodwill of those who decide how we live. In addition, a false claim is used, that it is not about the means that are our obligation. I argue it is the funds that are the obligations of the Republic of Serbia, because the previous loan, of three billion, has been withdrawn from the 767.9m-euro tranche, is the item one in the review of the medium- and long-term debt of the Republic of Serbia, which was not discussed in this home, but somewhere else, but the interest to repay this debt and annuities will be sought through this budget. Because, surely, the National Bank, which costs its monetary policy and value charter emissions, will not have a profit that will cover the cost of the credit recorded here. So let's not lie that these aren't the obligations that citizens need to settle. While politicians are tasked with bringing good news to citizens and raising optimism, this does not mean that it can be lied and that economists need their authority and knowledge to use to support the lies of those who want to bring good news, but who are hollow. What I insist on and what must be known at this time, the Serbian government must take care of its public debt, the possibilities for it to return and the abuse of statistics here cannot help. If in the EU, 3.2 million people are out of work for a year and that figure is 22 million unemployed, of which 15 million are in the eurozone, and if the unemployment rate has risen from 7.2 to 9.4, and if Europe has been concerned and said this - 10% of those who do not, and who have nothing to lose, at any moment are a potential threat to regime change and change of government. I warn the government, and that's the primary reason why I'm talking about loans like this, that in this number of 9.4 unemployed -- 20% younger than 25 years, and that's the main reason for the increase in crime, violence, extremism and all the negative phenomena. We will agree that violence is not created on sports grounds. There go people who tend to do it for much deeper reasons. The fact that there is no job, that there is no investment in production, that funding and common policy is driven by the financial sector, which is still called the casino by Canes in time, is not the solution for this country. And don't let anyone dare compare borrowing to what we're talking about today as a new loan from the Russian Federation. So what it is is a true borrowing, it's a debt to invest, and it's in infrastructure, it's debts that we'll always be happy to borrow -- attracting productive investments. In that sense, the Russians and only part of the planned loan are paying for the budget deficit, the 200 million are being talked about, and the rest will be precisely in the precisely defined infrastructure projects. That's the difference, for those who don't recognize the difference. Why don't they recognize her? At the time of the greatest privatisations, at the time of the biggest inflows, at the time of the rain of money coming into this country, we closed down factories and made this kind of debt. Since 2007, he's been afraid we're going into a debt crisis. It should be made a difference when and for what credit is taken and it should be known that one who has not placed state money under control, and at least in two, at the Agency for Privatisation and at the Civil Aviation Directorate, where the figures of 500 million earned money at the expense of the state, and in the Agency six to seven billion paid funds, of which Minister Dinkic said only 760 million were left, is sufficient reason to reject any kind of new borrowing. For he is not poor, but he who has too much desire to spend and who does not know how to spread toward the leper.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28795	Thank you. Mr. Dragan Todorovic has a word, then Mr. Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28796	What's our group, 15 minutes?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28797	Yes, as an authorised representative, you have 15 minutes, and 67 minutes has a group.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28798	Ladies and gentlemen, within the framework of this draft law on the regulation of the obligations of the Republic of Serbia towards the IMF and the loans that we will receive, precisely because I think it is important for the citizens of Serbia to know what these new borrowings are likely to be used for, I would like to try to explain in one particular case how all the money of Serbia's citizens, that is, these loans, and not only this last one that has been taken, but everyone who has been taken since 2000. No wonder our country is one of the most in charge in the world. Among other things, you understand, you have had the opportunity to hear from the IMF their demands, to reform when it comes to the state administration, to reduce the number of jobs, because it is enormously large compared to the size of our country and it is normal that even much richer countries would not be able to withstand this number of officials we have today. Just to remind you, at the beginning of 2001, we had about seven and a half thousand employees in the state administration, without the police and the military, and in December 2003 that number grew to over 28 thousand. Although you have the government's promises to reform the state administration, that there will be a reduction in the number of employees, I will show you on many examples, today only on one occasion, that this is a simple farce and deception of Serbian citizens. Without a job, those who work hard, probably for many years, will be fired, and all who are employed on the party line will remain. And not only will they remain, but new workers will also come, who are employed daily even though everyone swears that employment will no longer be, that rationalization will be carried out, etc. I'm going to make an example because I think it's interesting, it refers to the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and that in the best possible way, or how you "yellow" like to say "transparent", it would show the citizens of Serbia, and probably to you, because you don't know what's going on in your name, how this country is being abused, how the situation is being abused. Today, a competition of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia came out in Politica. The manager of the sector for organisational and administrative affairs should be employed. Look at how much it's written here, what the worker in question should be doing. When you look at this text, you find it overwhelming to think it's President SANU. Because it's incredibly much of an explanation for one job and that it's looking for this great expertise, knowledge, etc. Do you know what's interesting about that? The fact that, apparently, he already knows who the ad was called for. That's the biggest problem, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People, citizens of Serbia. It seems that the ad has been called for a man who already works in the Serbian Parliament. He's working for a while, though. He works as an advisor to the secretary. He says -- it doesn't matter that according to the systematization he needs to meet certain conditions, he needs to be a lawyer. That's why I insist that we change the secretary, because it's obvious that the law is not respected. The problem is that he works for a certain time, he says, until the workers come back, but there's no worker, probably until he gets back from his pregnancy. But you don't know who the worker is and you don't know when he's gonna stay in a different condition. By then, he'll be working on this job he's working on. It is another interesting piece of information, I think it will cheer all citizens in Serbia, that the worker in question is 63 years old. He is famous for being admitted to the Pionir Organization by Dragoljub Micunovic when he was the president of the Komsomol. Then you know what this is about. And otherwise, he worked at the Federal Assembly of the Republic of Yugoslavia at a time when Dragoljub Micunovic was president. I'm sorry that Mr. Zoran Shami is not here, he made a huge effort to get the results where money was spent for several garages and curtains that were damaged on October 5th, when the DOS entered the Federal Assembly of the Republic of Yugoslavia. What's interesting, there was a budget inspection, there was SBPOK, I think it was UBPOK then, but it doesn't matter, it's kind of covered up, but the worker in question has been banned from entering the Federal Assembly. And what he's gonna do, junior, where he's gonna be at 60, he's gonna get severance. They say he took something like 30,000 euros. So is the Sutanite, and so are many. It's manners. However, unlike Sutanovec, he probably hasn't worked for 24 months, I think it should be reconsidered, which in any case is much more positive than when it comes to the Shutanovac. But this is why it is received, it has a background to prepare some e-parliament, I guess the European Parliament or the European Parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28799	Electronic Parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28800	Okay, electronic Parliament. Great, I meant European, so I'd say I could understand that. Why the electronics? Well, because he was working on introducing these electronic equipment. Thank you for helping me. ) He worked on the introduction of this equipment and this equipment did not work until a few months ago to insist on Boris Tadic to move into this building from the building to the King of Milan. But here, you know, you've been visiting European parliaments, there are no such parliamentary units anywhere. Nowhere. You know, first of all, because of the vote, here when you have to vote, you get instructions. When a guest comes, so you can listen to translations, you also get some instructions. For this electronic system, incredible sums have been paid, but it's interesting that the job did not get the best bidder, but some other firm, and the best bidder was the subcontractor of that company that introduced the electronic system. Now, the same, which apparently has experience, which will invest all of its work experience and life experience, its acquired knowledge, although immediately after the war, when electronics were still at the beginning, but probably has mastered all these skills, that and such a man should come to this already pre-prepared workplace that you have opened and which allows in this way to arch Serbian citizens' money. What's particularly interesting is the question of who's going to answer for this under the law. If you just turn this page "Politice", here you have an ad -- "Government of the Republic of Serbia, General Secretariat of the Government, Belgrade, Nemanja 11". I haven't been able to calculate everything, but there are about 30 new jobs, where people need to get jobs. Who are you kidding? To whom you talk about reforms, rationalization, reorganisation, that you will save, that the state will behave responsibly, that the state will take care of etc.? See how many unemployed are in Serbia. A million and more. Look how poor he is. The government acknowledges that more than 700,000 Serbian citizens are on the verge or below the poverty line. Do you know what the poverty limits are? It's about 40 dinars a day. I'm asking you -- how is it possible to survive with 40 dinars a day? Are you connecting now what little bit or less in the newspaper the news that they found an old person in an apartment who died, and the most common cause of death is hunger? And how can they survive when you've spent their hard-earned pensions, what they invested in the pension fund? Now you're cheating on us, so you're saying -- it's impossible to pay this number of pensions to this number of employees. But these employees separate into pension funds for themselves, not for current pensioners. The current pensioners took it for themselves, and they were supposed to have that money waiting for them. You know that pension funds are one of the safest funds in the world, because it's kept in mind that any investment from these funds must be absolutely safe. I ask the question – what about the money from pension funds invested in many buildings in Serbia? Whose facilities are these now? That it may not be those facilities that have been sold for one euro, three euros etc.? Now you're convincing the pensioners that it's impossible to pay them their pensions. Are you thinking about what will happen to you when you retire? Who's spending your money now? Will you accept that you can't take a pension because the number of workers who might be working at the time isn't enough to separate yourself from your pensions? Then what are you going to do? Do you think that you will improve the economic situation in the country by hiring people from 63 years of age, and young people will be at the employment bureau or will go after bread? You've been on the move for a long time as young people left in the '90s. Did you calculate how many went by 2000? What is this army today, an army of disillusioned, those who believed in those promises by 2000, that conditions would eventually be created, that they would have the opportunity to build their future in their own country, to create families, to work? But after a very short time, they realized that there was nothing of it, that it was just a fraud, a simple lie to get those in them that would support you, believing that you would fulfill all their aspirations, all their dreams, what you promised them, to realize that it was one of the greatest frauds and the greatest lies that you continued to do. Just to remind you of the free action, the flag and everything you promised and didn't keep. This is one of the best ways for you to see who you are and also to see those who allegedly lead this country, how they lead it and where they lead it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28801	Mr. Todorovic, both for your sake and for the sake of the public, I have some facts to make. This assembly of parliament and parliamentary leadership has only put into operation the electronic system and no single dinar has paid anyone to introduce the electronic system. That's the first fact. Secondly, the electronic parliament has nothing to do with the electronic system, these are completely separate terms. Thirdly, most importantly, the opening of the competition is following a decision by the Administrative Committee on the conditions of the systematisation act relating to the assistant secretary. Therefore, only those conditions of the systematisation act that are necessary to meet the person who will apply are given in the competition. The election procedure itself is just ahead of us and it will be done by the relevant committees. (Dragan Todorovic, from the place: Can I have a word? No, we don't want to run the controversy, I'm just obliged because you could get the impression that you're running this leadership, and I'm personally, in a way... (Dragan Todorovic, from the place: That is why I am asking for a word, to clarify. We'll explain later when you have your time. Now he has the word Mr. Velimir Ilic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28802	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, such a serious topic, this much debt to Serbia of three billion euros, and the last item of the agenda and in front of an almost empty parliament. This is how we all treat the large debts that Serbia currently has and the duties currently being done in Serbia. We're doing this time of work. Here, in one session of three billion, the Chinese will give another billion. Guys, who's gonna pay it back, and from what and how? That's not what anyone's asking. Coming before parliament to discuss the IMF and the already ongoing credit line, it's really unserious. And secondly, it is extremely humiliating for all of us MPs to be the very irresponsibility of the prime minister and the finance minister. Sending the minister of the diaspora to defend such a law is really funny and sad for the Serbian parliament. I can't understand. The ruling coalition, are you ashamed when you see the humiliation and understatement of this House? I understand we're talking about diaspora, but recently he was a minister of religion and he was defending some financial, economic laws, whatever. You find some people that parliament doesn't want to attack fiercely, as the finance minister would on these financial issues, and we come into a situation where we look ridiculous in front of the Serbian public. Another thing, spending this much money -- here, one tranche has been withdrawn -- without the budget law, without the control mechanism is inappropriate. You put in charge of that hour of work and our grandkids who will come, with a few billion, then you're throwing yourself away with that money, and you don't do anything important. What Mrs Tabakovic was talking about, I understand that there's some infrastructure project being made, that there's a highway, that there's something being made, that it's building, that new jobs are being opened, but believe me, we're throwing the money we're getting into a hole without a bottom knowing how to spend, without the control mechanism. The NBS hasn't submitted a bill to anyone in years. We've never been worthy of the governor coming to tell us a sentence, a word, to tell us what the real situation is. Do you believe that the Serbian economy currently owes 20 billion euros per loan in foreign and domestic banks? Do you know that Serbia's economy has an annual interest of two billion euros, which it can no longer serve? We're talking about the economic crisis. So, what companies are doing to us, so they're in a major economic crisis? Our companies aren't working. We take credit lines and charge budgets and pay budget users without the possibility of hiring. Here, they just go layoffs. Is that, gentlemen, the election promise of 200,000 jobs you promised when you came to power? You promised a contract with the Fiat that the Fiat would pay 200 million, and the rest of us will. We've paid everything. They're getting lively. They're looking for a highway, they're looking for an airport, and they didn't pay a single dollar by contract that was signed. Why are we financing Fiat vehicles from the budget? "Fiat" is a private company. I'm saying one of these guys has a fat mind to give him money. Who else in the world sponsors 1,000 euros per car to buy out of a budget filled with credit because we don't have funds in the budget? It's all out of your mind and no one can understand that. I can't understand, gentlemen, that there's never a prime minister and a finance minister around here to make that clear. Where's the contract with the Fiat? Why don't you read it? Why don't you let us open up an economic debate? We're bringing some laws here. It's nice, the diaspora law, come on and do it. Come on, and there's some law on medals. The priest's cattle are baptizing. And the economy has no chance of survival. Who's going to fill the budget next year? Do you think these credit lines will start again? That's impossible. How can the state function without an economy? No new jobs? No employment? We're talking about laws. You bring laws, you bring laws to the government. Your coalition partners go on TV and say, what kind of laws we don't care about, who whistles, and we won't respect it. Hello, are you a normal world? Are you thinking something, gentlemen of the ruling coalition? Are you watching the news and the diary? How are you acting? So what now? Some of them in Kursumlia have to respect, and some of them don't have to respect anything. We say, conflict of interest, we've passed some laws. They say -- what conflict, we don't care at all. You are being so violent towards the citizens of Serbia that it is more inappropriate and intolerant. So, come to your senses. You'll be the opposition tomorrow. You're going to lose your election, how you do it. You were handing out your hand and hat in Verbas. And we, when we were in government, won all the municipalities. Of course, now you win, but when there's an election, it's gonna be a disaster. Learn something. There's one more thing to explain to you, gentlemen. You keep talking and criticizing – you, Ilic, were in the government of Vojislav Kostunica, so why haven't you solved it? It is true that I was in two terms, but the government daily owed Serbia an average of 1,700,000, and this government daily owes Serbia six to seven million euros. Please come to your senses, to consider this difficult situation in Serbia. It is a shame to say that 700,000 people in Serbia starve when this was the most natural year in Serbia. It's a shame there's no ransom. It's a shame people can't afford to pay off the ransom prices. Serbia is in big trouble, and you don't take it, and you're not seriously going to put any economic issues into parliament, so that Mr. Economy Minister and Equal Regional Development come along and let's ask him some questions. He never comes to parliament, he can't meet with the MPs. And when necessary, he sends the lady from the National Investment Plan. To tell us where it leads to Serbia's economy, which next year we're going to fill the budget when you've already predicted a hundred billion deficits and you're already whispering about where to find a way to complete and meet your commitments. There's no better for us if you don't know how to work, if the ministers can't come before their MPs. Call the election. What are you waiting for? What's wrong with you? What are you beating us up for? What's the situation, you're not aware at all. You've snuck in here, you've passed all kinds of laws. Here, 53 laws at once. That's what you're going to connect, connect, that the debate is going on as soon as possible, and that's all the laws of lemonade. There are no real laws to be passed without you respecting them, gentlemen. Now, of course, you want to bring your judges in, to do your judges the way you want them to, and to throw out those righteous judges who will not be obedient, just as you clean up the municipalities of the disobedient and bring the obedient. What Todorovic said, that you are hiring new obedient ones, and that you are forcing the disobedient. Look at the housework. In my day, I was the president of Cachak Municipality for eight years. Look at the staff report. Chachak has 70 fewer employees than your law requires. Less, since we've been doing housework and doing business, we haven't brought in party people. Take Topola, Lig, Mionica, there's a situation everywhere. Take your municipalities, gentlemen. Double. How are you going to fire 350, 500 people? I watched in a municipality of 500 people, 350 people. That's not normal. You do all that -- come to our party, you have a job, take all the people in the house on the way, so we'll find something. Just like you did with Krkobic. Take everything you've got, it's not a problem, we'll open up jobs. This kind of non-domestic business in Serbia has not been recorded for a long time. Don't humiliate this parliament. Dignify us to come, the resolute ministers to come and report their work here. Let once the governor deign us to come to parliament. When was the last time he filed a report on the work of the National Bank? It never is. He doesn't care about that. Budgetary reserves, we ask where they are, what banks, you buy, you stabilize. Who are you stabilising and what kind of economy is it doing to you? Do you work Bor, Majdanpek, Electronic Industry, Machine Industry, October 14th, Viskoza, Magnochrom, First Five-year-old...? So, guys, what's he doing to you in this country? What crisis has hit you? You see, the import lobby works here, it just stamps and you go on his arm with an artificial dinar maintenance course, and we're sinking deeper and deeper. It is a situation that is evident in Serbia. The macroeconomic policy of the state is run by a man who has no connection, who has not worked in the economy for one minute. Where's that gonna get us? I'm asked by a journalist -- who do you propose for a medal? I say he's the one I propose for the medal. A man for nine years destroys the economy of this state, and the financials and the banks and the National Bank, and all the living, and you keep him. I can't understand. Wherever he goes to the polls, he can't get 1%. And you say you're a great coalition partner and don't touch it, just don't touch it. Who's behind the man? What's your deal with each other? Is there anything there? I can't understand. So it's all wrong and it's nothing good. So I ask you, in future, to put these topics at the top of the agenda, so that we can discuss it at a decent time, not before the weekend, before the end, in some extended session, etc. If we're serious about solving issues in the country, if we think we're seriously hiring people in this Serbia... I repeat, millions of people are unemployed, waiting for work. Some are formally going to work. He works and receives the salary of 492,000 people. Can this number of people who receive their salary neatly to support eight million Serbian citizens and an expensive, extremely expensive administration? He can't. You've increased the administration through the last meeting by 7,000. The communal police, administrative regions, agencies, and when you add it all together, that's about 7,000 new jobs in the administration. And now you will have some martyrs, who won't listen to you, to throw them out, to send them home, and everything is harder than weight, people can't pay for electricity. There, now there's chaos in Serbia. The electricity can't be paid, the electricity bills are coming and they can't be paid. How to warm up, how to name the winter? How can those who receive 12,000 or 13,000 a month be fed? So think about it a little bit and put it on the agenda, let's talk about it a little bit, these topics. To get the most responsible people from this country and to discuss it here. Don't just bring us some politicians, for God's sakes, the whole world. They recognized Kosovo independently yesterday, and now they're coming to parliament to tell us stories here. They want to invest in the business, but they want to be the projects they want us to be. Is this state being led out of this House? Are we the government's exposure or is the government elected to this House? People come from the government, and what they think of is right here. Whoever they bring us, we bow. It's nice that the president of Russia came, but I didn't see any of them ashamed when we voted for that agreement. I signed him in Moscow, in the Kremlin, in front of the same man who spoke to you the other day, in front of the president of Russia. What's the matter? You spit me so much in that debate, though, in that assembly, that it's bad, or many of those who are now sitting in the ruling coalition, who have come and just now run the other... I'm running out of time.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28803	The word is Mr Milos Aligrudic, as president of the parliamentary group. Here you go, sir.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28804	I won't be long, the law is short, and I thank the applicant for having submitted it in the first place and for allowing us to say one more word about it. By the way, you know very well, Mr. Minister, although you probably have nothing to do with it personally, and those who have no... What you had a relationship with, unfortunately it was that scenic previous law, but it's already been discussed. So the government has done everything necessary to break the Budget Law, to enter a deficit greater than 70.4 billion dinars. On October 5th, we were four billion, experts say we'll be up to 150 billion by the end of the year, and there's no rebalancing in sight. The new session is scheduled to lose or buy time, to discuss everything for a month or more, probably in some shortened and concise debates, in which content cannot discuss everything proposed for the agenda, and negotiations with the IMF should begin. How do you think you're going to talk to serious people, aside from the content of what you're going to agree on, to present yourself as political actors in Serbia who are willing to break their own law? You're doing it. And you'll break it even more, until the 2010 budget is passed. So this whole year we're gonna be in violation of regulations. There is no valid answer from any institution to which we have asked a question about this. Not a single one. We sent that question to six addresses, including Mirko Cvetkovic. How do you think you talk to these people? When you negotiate everything, you'll probably get some credit. That loan will have certain conditions. These conditions are very clear -- Serbian citizens need that loan back the next day so that you can fill in the bottomless budget gaps. Because every deficit you enter must eventually be covered by real resources. It is impossible to plan a deficit in a poor country that cannot be covered. So the birds on the branch see, and if someone's not clear, they need to know that you're going into overconsumption, and that overconsumption has to be covered from somewhere. No one will ever convince me, a team before I haven't heard any concept or strategy of the government until today, perhaps you'll surprise me in some answer, which I doubt, that money will be used to revive production, to revitalise agriculture, to create new jobs, for a strategy that will significantly attract foreign investment. The stories of corridors, the closure of open jobs that have been open so long ago, at the time of some other government, and not the one you're sitting in -- these are wild stories, because open work has to be done. But what about a bunch of those funds? What's their spending plan? We don't know anything about that. We'll never know. We'll know when you make us a deficit account for next year and you predict a deficit of 200 billion dinars, which won't even be realistic then, because you'll need to spend 300 billion. Now I'm going to warn you of a fact that people know how you work as a government. You planned, there will be a law on the Assembly's agenda at the next session, to release some number of administrative workers, about 6,000 in the beginning, to cover a deficit hole up to a level of about 12m euros, and the deficit you have now entered, in this overrun by October 5th is over 40m euros. So, you're going to be 40m euros in deficits to save a budget hole with 12 million firing 6,000 people without any criteria, without any plan or strategy, without any social programme, without any reflection on how and in any way the state can actually save, and you're going to create trouble based on which this job of firing workers will be more financial damage than benefits. That's what every mathematician will do for you, and we'll have a chance to discuss when that law comes on the agenda, very easily proven. Therefore, you are distracting the public, harassing the citizens of Serbia, giving them credit based on which you will cover your own deficits in the perverse economic policy, no strategy whatsoever, no idea how to employ people, how to save them from losing their jobs, no idea of how to provide people with a safe future or any relative security in the years in which we live, with the elemental fear of how they will survive and scrape the end of the deal, and how one day they will have to pay back those money that you, contrary to any elemental logic, have taken for the wrong purposes. It's the essence of this story, and I wouldn't have further owed it, although I still have time, but I'm going to let my colleagues spend the time of the parliamentary group at their disposal to tell you two or three more details about all this.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28805	We'll be in direct transmission by 19.00 hours, and then we'll have a delayed transmission, due to the game. The word is Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28806	As one of the applicants of the amendment on behalf of the Parliament club "Forward, Serbia", I will explain only part of the arguments on this occasion. I will use part-time of the parliamentary group to explain my opposition to borrowing without previously using all the reserves in the existing funds. We adopted the Budgetary System Act and it was published on 17 July this year in Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia 54, which left us with the right and opportunity to control the flows of public funds and budget money. I'm going to give just one example of how this control isn't done, it's even taking part in it. I believe that you will help me (the Minister is, by the way, the Master of Economic Sciences and I do not consider him unprofessional for this subject, on the contrary) with the experience of knowing air traffic, in that part of the job when you were working at the "Yat." I'm saying this with the sincerest expectation and the desire to contribute to the lighting of what the public doesn't know, and you should know. We adopted the Budgetary System Act, where Article 2 of point 5 defines exactly who the public funds users are - direct and indirect beneficiaries of budgets, compulsory social security organisations, etc., but what I insist on and what I want to point out are legal persons over whom the Republic of Serbia, i.e. local government has direct or indirect control of more than 50% of the capital or more than 50% of the votes on the board of directors. You will agree with me that where government representatives are members of the board of directors, the organization is a precisely defined user of public funds. There is no dilemma or need for different interpretations. Whether it is called the Management Board or the Council - it is a language issue, not a structural and essential issue in terms of organisation and competence. In the Civil Aviation Directorate, which uses state resources, it charges over the sky, which is a national treasure, members of the Council... I will read only part of the minutes of 25.2.2009, so that I can get to know the public who is a member of the Council and does not engage in his proper work to introduce under budget control the funds that are being made, does not reduce the salaries of those who at this time have over 500,000 salaries. That's what the people who work here say. And since that information isn't public, and since some of them who requested it didn't get it, and now they're talking to the Trustee for information, I'm saying, some say that because there was so much pay, and they didn't cut it in accordance with the law. I will only tell you that at the session where the rules on the payments of some new services were adopted, also illegally, besides Council President Milutin Mrkonjic, members of the Council in the Serbian Government Ivica Dacic, Dragan Sutanovac, Diana Dragutinovic and the Director General of the Civil Aviation Directorate of the Republic of Serbia Nebojsa Starcevic attended. Whether the Council -- the board of directors -- is for me and the citizens of Serbia a linguistic difference. The civil aviation directorate is, as the minister says, no regulatory body, because it does not make any regulations, but it is someone who benefits and benefits from state and public funds. But, since 2003, when it was founded in the state of Serbia-Montenegro, 500m euros have been made, which have not entered the budget of the Republic of Serbia. This is why I mention exactly this directorate, along with the Privatisation Agency, which was founded in 2001 to help the World Bank once, when it was drawn up as one of the authorities that will privatise and when it is said -- will be established by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and then, by the new regulation, it has slipped out of control and collection of income and only when it settles itself, its advisers -- financially, economically, legally, when those 5% for income from successful privatisation (and how successful they are, the citizens of Serbia) only then can change into the budget of the Republic of Serbia. Is it the opposition's job or is it the government's business? Three times, for three years, we have submitted amendments asking for this control to be established, and now that there is a Budgetary System Act, not that the Government is not doing it, but that the Government is participating in the illegal waste of funds. Just one more detail, so I can leave time for the rest of my colleagues. Although it is said that this loan is not conditioned by anything, although they say the basis for it is macroeconomic stability, I am responsible for saying it is not true. In this house, we adopted a Law confirming a loan agreement for the development of the private and financial sector between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, two months ago, worth 34,900,000 euros. This is the triumphate – the IMF, the World Bank and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, where the conditions are precisely set out in plan 1. It's the material that all MPs have, they've got it in good time. I'll just say one thing - the borrower plans to finance activities that will implement the objectives through the means provided by this agreement. So, precisely, the tasks that are, for me, the most difficult in the work of the last paragraph, which is said to be - the achievement of the planned objectives will be realised through the creation and implementation of the strategy to reduce the borrower, which is the state of Republika Srpska, in the financial sector from the current 17.29% in 2010 when it comes to banks and to reducing participation from the current 34 to 30 in 2010 when insurance companies are concerned. At a time when all other countries pump up money, the state of private banks, here are accepted goals that do not need to be repeated now in this loan -- how that one state should base its economic and therefore political independence, should destroy, hand over to someone else, in order to then depend on the Austrian bank club or on those who will share a charity called 'debt financing as a modern lifestyle'. That's how we don't want to be modern. And, please, don't claim that the conditions don't exist. They were adopted in this home, through this 34,900,000-euro loan, which is not said in which way they will be used, but it is said what will be achieved by using these funds as a goal.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28807	There are 16 and a half minutes left for your parliamentary group. Now let's discuss whether Mr Krasic or Todorovic will speak, as Mr Nikolic is next. Mr. Todorovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28808	Thank you, Madam President. First of all, about your exposure, just to point out that I haven't mentioned at any time the achievements and successes that have been achieved by this which are predicted to be in this position at a time since you've been president, but you've obviously found yourself affected. I suppose it may be fear for the secretary of the assembly, that he may not have gotten into some dealings, so you want to fence in advance, which I accept, and I think it's correct and it should be. Because knowing the results of this, I'm not sure he's not fat, but he's going to do business the same way he did in his previous term. Just to sort of bring all this farce around this job closer to Serbia's MPs and citizens, I've already shown you what the text is that explains what this thing needs to know... Not the whole sentence, God forbid, who knows how big it is, I couldn't make it to the end. I'll read you a piece. It says - a description of jobs: it organises work in the sector, takes care of the timely implementation of the department's work tasks within the sector, takes care of the removal of all weaknesses or shortcomings within the lower organisational units in the sector in order to enable the smooth co-ordinated implementation of planned activities together with the head of the department within the sector, participates in the development of individual financial plans of these departments, and with the manager of the financial and material affairs sector in the development of the National Assembly's financial plan on an annual basis, takes care of the legal and economic availability of budgets intended for the work of the National Assembly. I'm gonna stop here. Because he's proven himself, gentlemen of the Parliament. In his day he was ordered and paid for software for an ambulance and a hairdresser's salon. Do you believe this? Medical software and a hair salon? Madam President, is there a hair salon in the Serbian Parliament? He's gone. But he cut our hair, or the citizens of Serbia, cut our hair and shaved it, and it looks our way, and he intends to do it again. What is problematic, dear Serbian citizens, is being robbed in every way possible. Because wherever you turn, wherever you scratch, you come across a robbery. It's not a haircut, it's an incredible robbery, it's a brutal robbery. It is tied to the Serbian Tourist Organisation, where Mrs. Gordana Plamenac is the director. She says she has appointed Vesna Raca Radosavljevic from G17 as the deputy director at TOS, although there is no such place of employment in the systematisation of jobs. What's weird about that? It's normal in this country. And this touch works at a workplace that doesn't exist and replaces a worker who doesn't exist until he gets back from a hospital that doesn't exist. What more can I tell you? What kind of country do we live in? I can't do everything, just some things that are extremely important. It says -- this one is a young man, Miskeljin, who, at the service of a civil military term in one of the health homes in Belgrade, who is employed in the Serbian Tourist Organisation, sent without the approval of the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Serbia abroad to fairs in Turin and other cities of Western Europe. In addition, the director of Gordana Plamenac and Miskeljin's cousin concluded a fictitious contract for a certain period of time, allowing him to receive his personal income regularly even though he is serving the military term. Normally, a man serves a civilian military deadline. If it's a civilian military deadline, why don't you get paid? It's perfectly normal. If he were a normal state, he'd serve military time in a barracks, which the SRS stood for. He's got a conscience complaint. It's no problem. He doesn't carry a gun, he serves in a cafeteria, he serves in all the services where he can serve his military time and contribute to this state. But this isn't the only thing. He also said Gordana Plamenac was the director of the company Hog Robinson, which deals with airline and hotel reservations, with the company continuing to reserve airlines and hotels by the Tourist Organisation of Serbia and is assumed to be the co-owner of the company. What's weird about that? Who's a man if he doesn't want to? It's normal. And they're still complaining. That really doesn't make sense. What was Kristo doing? It says that the previous headquarters of the Serbian Tourist Organisation (Listen carefully to this) was in SIV III, y y y ulica of the Youth Brigades, which the Government of the Republic of Serbia received free of charge, and now it is moved to Čika Ljubino street number 8, owned by "Slavija banka" which is before bankruptcy and TOS pays a rent of a million dinars a month. The adaptation of the new offices in Chico Ljubina's number 8 was paid to 34 million dinars. Gordana Plamenac's monthly salary is 150,000 dinars. The Deputy Director's salary (by the way, there is no such job, but that is no reason not to pay, and that is fair) is 130,000 dinars. Biljana Shujica, assistant director, is worth 120,000 dinars. There's still a range. She's not a regular, she's being taken care of. Gordana Plamenac's director for the dismissal of workers in the Serbian Tourist Organisation prepares those employees whose monthly personal incomes are between 27,000 and 35,000 dinars. This is what I told the citizens of Serbia. Without a job, you will be left with this kind of pay, and less, and those who have come through the parties, who spend millions of dollars, who in all ways rob this country, if you give them confidence, will continue to do so. And I hope, frankly, that, citizens, so far, you've had enough information to realize that they should first of all go before the investigative authorities and finally answer for an unprecedented robbery that they've been doing over this country and over you for almost ten years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28809	Mr. Zoran Nikolic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28810	Your Honor, this is what I want to say, it's about you. I think you're bound to give answers. Last week, the head of our parliamentary group Milos Aligrudic asked you a question based on the report we received from the Ministry of Finance on the implementation of the three-quarter budget, i.e. for the January-September 2009 period. The report said that in the budget deficit, 74 billion, although when we adopted the last rebalancing, we allowed the government to achieve a budget deficit of 70 billion. What does that mean? This means that the government has violated the Budgetary System Act and that we are already four billion over the allowed limit. You were asked a question, we gave it to you in writing, to get and get as urgent information as possible regarding this budget violation. You replied to Mr. Aligrudić: “The content of your discussion in the form of an initiative in writing was delivered to me yesterday, and I forwarded it to the Prime Minister, Resoring Minister, as one of your initiatives, and the proposal for budget rebalance can be encouraged by the Government. Therefore, I have already responded by your initiative and of course I will have oral communication regarding the text that you have provided and what is the content of your question today." Now I ask you, in these seven days have you had oral communication with the prime minister or the finance minister and what do they have to say on this subject? So, what is this parliament for? You're the head of this House. The most important law this assembly adopts is the budget. If we determine that a deficit of a maximum of 70 billion can be achieved in the budget, in the report already in October we get that it has been exceeded by four billion, then I don't know what we voted on. That's what you voted for, MPs from the ruling coalition, although I only see three of you. But it doesn't matter, and I don't insist now whether you're in the O.R. or not, but it's not a matter of respect for our will, the will of this assembly, that the budget is adopted at a certain amount and that the deficit is allowed so much. There are a lot of MPs here who are active in local self-government. If that happened in any local self-government, that's what you go to jail for. Temporary measures would be imposed in that municipality because it is simply unacceptable. That's why there's the possibility of budget rebalances, where the government comes in, it says -- we're in charge of more, we have to have a bigger deficit, so the majority of the congregation allows or doesn't allow it. Usually allow, but then these measures are legally justified, and this is how the Budgetary System Act, which we changed in July, was violated. A team above, the bill on the budget system, which, according to Mrs Dragutinovic, was a rescue for the finances of our state and a prerequisite for the government to finally start operating in the most efficient way, was violated by the minister himself. It foresees clear sanctions for all direct and indirect users of the budget if they do not respect, in terms of overexploiting the money... Very high fines have been provided, even sanctions for changing functions. Let me tell you, we at the DSS support it. It is very important that the state serves as an example of discipline in the availability and spending of budget money. She really has to be an example. What does this look like? The report is another proof that the government does not respect this parliament, that it does not respect MPs and humiliates the ruling majority MPs. At that time, when the law on the budgetary system was proposed, we proposed an amendment that, if the managers of direct and indirect users could be responsible and replaced, it should also apply to ministers. That's when the minister wouldn't accept the amendment. Now we see why she didn't want to accept. But then let all officials and executives who are authorized to deploy money on behalf of local self-government, dispose of budgets, use budget funds, know that they are not equal to the Serbian government's ministers before the law. Because sanctions for them are provided by law and are very strict and exact, and ministers are protected as white bears and can send us such a shameful report and tell us that they have exceeded the budget by four billion. That confirms what we from the DSS have been saying since the adoption of the budget, all this year, that the government doesn't have a clear economic policy, that the government is wandering, that the government doesn't know what it's doing. I told Mrs Dragutinovic that I hope that her professional honor will not allow her to enter this parliament again and defend the new rebalancing before the MPs. We'll see if there are any professional honors, because this is another proof that she should actually resign, as a whole, as a whole government. We've been listening to stories for the past two or three months about how it's supposed to be saved. An entire marketing action has been made about how the state apparatus has to be reduced, how the state has to be the most responsible and to show. At the next session, which has fifty-one points and has no budget rebalance on the agenda, we will have, among other things, a law that provides for the dismissal of 6,000 workers from the state administration. The savings on this basis will be around 1,200,000 dinars or 12m euros, and only until September did the government allow itself to exceed the deficit by four billion, or 40m euros. Let MPs of the ruling coalition, as well as citizens of Serbia, assess what kind of savings it is. We will fire 6,000 people from the state administration to save 12m euros, and this year alone, the budget deficit is likely to be around 150 billion. God forbid it's like that. The estimates are like that at this point, maybe 170, don't give me God anymore. And by firing 6,000 government workers, we'll save 1,200,000 dinars. It's really hypocrisy and shame, and it shows that the story of saving and rationalizing the state apparatus is meant to probably fire those who are undesirable, politically inappropriate, perhaps even insubordination, and those who want, obviously, given how this government works, to work under the law. The agreement with Russia – it shows how much this government has absolutely no economic policy. We have been granted a billion-euro grant. Two hundred million goes to fill budget gaps, i.e. covering the budget deficit, and 800 million should go to various projects. What's that? We take money, and there are no plans, no programs, no elaborates, no judges where we're going to invest that money. It's not a problem with that money from Russia, the problem is that the money, and the money we take from the IMF and other financial institutions, we take on similar arches, not having programmes to invest it in the necessary projects. So, let's put aside what we're in charge of. Em, we're in debt, and we don't have projects to invest that money in valid projects. Six months ago, we were talking about an arrangement with the IMF of three billion, whether it's a public debt of this state or not? If it is a public debt, I suppose this parliament should plead. We will plead at the next session on some $150,000 arrangements, and this parliament has not declared itself to be in charge of the government's three-billion-dollar debt. On the condition that we get those three billion, it'll only be seen when we negotiate with the IMF in the coming days. But what is the negotiating position of this government and this state with this government? When this IMF, if it looks at this report, sees that the government itself violates the Budgetary System Act, the most important and only law that must be respected, and when it is known that this deficit will be over a billion and a half euros, what is our negotiating position then? What concessions do we have to make to get that money, so that we can survive this year and next year? That's what this is about. And that is why parliament must put pressure on this government and, above all, it is the responsibility of MPs from the ruling coalition and you, as president of parliament. We've taken a formal step towards you. We sent you a memo and asked you to make the Government's statement as urgent as possible. What did we get in response? Fifty-four points to discuss in the next month. There are, of course, important points, but these are not the most important points this parliament should discuss. He, above all, needs to discuss the budget, the budget rebalance, because the government has broken the law. She's breaking the law now. The government must make a draft budget by 1 November. It's a legal obligation. How is she going to do the draft budget for 2010 if she hasn't even made a draft budget rebalance, and she's already in a legal breach? This clearly says that the government is in a state of disintegration, that there is absolutely no vision in the sphere of finance, economy and economy, that there is only good marketing, that we hear about savings for a month, that we hear about the increase in VAT for a month, and that again a month we hear that there will be no VAT increases, but that there will be reductions and mass layoffs of 14,000, 20,000, and in the end we see 6,000. Where are the effects of these measures? They're absolutely gone. If the ruling majority declares that here we are talking about any subject, about hunting, fishing, but about the economy, about finance, wants European standards, I ask in which Europe and in which European Parliament it is possible for the government to allow itself to violate the law on the budgetary system. I think that such a government does not exist in any EU country, but cannot and does not exist in any country that calls itself legal, in any country where there is a rule of law. I expect the answer from you, I do not expect Minister Sredkovic to say anything on this subject, because anything you say on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia can be used in some kind of investigation procedure when all this is over and you fall out of power.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28811	Mr Nikolic, before that, orally, and on 7 October and in writing my request to receive answers from certain findings relating to the written address of Mr Aligrudić, relating to the Law on the Budgetary System, forwarded to the state auditor, the National Bank, the Prime Minister and the President of the Constitutional Court, on behalf of Mr Sretenovic, Mr Jelasic, Mr Cvetkovic and Mrs Nenadic. I also had oral communications, but I wanted there to be a written clue about it. Mr. Zoran Krasic has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28812	It's a great benefit to have this agenda point today. Of course, I'm going to go back to what's the agenda point and what my predecessors have been talking about is not falling back from what's on the agenda, maybe it's a broader context and a view of the economic and financial situation in the country, but I want to go back to what's the bill and what's covered by this amendment, given that we're in the debate in particular. It's a good thing this bill is on the agenda because, if I may say so, in history, this is the fourth or fifth time this type of duty appears in practice at all. On the basis of this bill, we see a wealth of ideas about how to get in charge. So far known forms of borrowing are, I'm talking about legal forms of borrowing, when the National Assembly ratifys an agreement where we're directly in charge of some state, IMF, World Bank or any international banking organization. The second form of borrowing, though not directly but indirectly, is what we often do in this assembly, which is - we pass a law on the issue of a guarantee or a counterguarantee, where the Republic of Serbia guarantees some borrowing of one of the public enterprises at a republican level or even local self-government. The third form, where we really owe ourselves to spend something we don't have, and hopefully in the future we'll have, so that we can go back, is a value paper show, where the state provides funds to bridge the current budgetary problems and big holes that arise because the revenues and expenditures in the budget are not in line. Now we come to this form of borrowing, very specific. As the promoters said, they had to prepare this law and propose to the National Assembly only because there was a Law on Public Debt. If there was no Law on Public Debt and it wasn't prescribed by our rules on the budgetary system that every borrowing of the Republic of Serbia would be asked about the National Assembly and that it would decide on it in the form of the law, then they wouldn't even ask us. What group of laws does this proposed law belong to? For the sake of viewers, I have to read what it says, it is the proposal for a law to regulate the obligations of the Republic of Serbia towards the IMF on the basis of the use of means of allocating special rights to draw the approved resolutions of the Board of Governors, and to bring it all down to date - October 1st, 2009. In essence, nothing is ratified or confirmed here, because such an agreement is not, but rather, this law is essentially a form where the Republic of Serbia unilaterally states that, based on its membership in the IMF, it will use the right guaranteed by all members, which is in translation, with a situation of about ten days ago, means that the Republic of Serbia can borrow from the IMF, raise a loan of about 420m euros (that amount is variable) and that the interest rate for the use of funds is around 0.29%. When it's put in some context, it's really said to be the cheapest means. However, these cheapest assets can be very expensive. I'm saying this for the public. When you vote this law in a day's time, know that under this law you will not be able to assign the Republic of Serbia for one euro, for one simple reason -- which is not covered by the budget for this year. Those who express a chill because the budget rebalancing has not been done so far, just to teach a little bit - budget rebalance will probably be done in December, because then they will see how much they have spent more than the National Assembly has approved. So in order not to change the budget three times by the end of the year, they're going to change that one time. Otherwise, they now spend very freely outside the scope of what the National Assembly has prescribed in the Budget Law. So this data, for three quarters of this year, how much overconsumption, and therefore borrowing, should only be accepted conditionally, for one simple reason, which is that this government is counting on it to have 126 plus half of the vote and that's enough for them to very successfully rule and can all legalize what they're doing this year. They can absolutely legalize everything because they have, yes -- a very tight majority, but 10,000 euros in Canka, 10,000 euros in Batic, 10,000 of this, that and that law are passing. You see, thanks to that kind of vision -- come on, I can't say it's a suitcase, it's a envelope -- it's all getting legal in this country. Of course it's all far from legal, but they're legitimate representatives of the people, they are. We know it here, we know how it ends with the laws, we know how most people are provided, we know how everything can become legal overnight. So don't be afraid. This law, and when you adopt it, you can only realize it next year. However, the bill promoter said this served as a golden reserve. If all these borrowing systems you're counting on are broken, then this system will be activated. But also for this system, precisely because of that Law on Public Debt and the Law on the Budgetary System, all this must be shown in the budget of the Republic of Serbia. If nowhere else, then exactly where the members of the 3rd or 4th are located, where the state of public debt and the obligations that exist for the Republic of Serbia are shown. Let me get your attention right away. If you think you're spending money under this law and based on the IMF membership in 2009, I wouldn't recommend it. For one simple reason, you haven't even looked at such a kind of possibility for this year. Te, if this goes into rebalancing, know that you're in big trouble, so that 126 and a half aren't helping. It's not helping. Radovanovic does not help either, even if you change him with this woman who is currently the district attorney in Belgrade, this Zaga, as they call her, although no one knows her, but is not helping you. Nothing's helping you now. It's all clear, everything's transparent. Everyone puts their hand in their pocket and sees what's real and what's going on. Now I have to expand this subject a little bit, so to say that unfortunately, our economy and our finances are in a catastrophic state. Our financial system is being held by strangers. The basis of the financial system is in the banking system and insurance companies. We almost do not have or are symbolically represented domestic companies or domestic capital. You have opportunities from time to time to read some periodic reports as to how many banks draw profits from the Republic of Serbia, so you had opportunities, for the past year, to hear that they are several hundred million euros. There is almost some data released in half a year, which is over 140m euros. So, Serbia is a golden coke for bankers. Now, where the banking system flourishes, citizens are ill-written. What's wrong with writing? I would ask every citizen of the Republic of Serbia to review, if possible, what he's doing in his place for the next ten minutes. I think it's easier to question what he's doing than to list what he's not doing. Because what he doesn't do, not to tell you, you know, it's ruined. I have to disappoint the citizens. It's all our fault, we're all accomplices. Not because we believed in Western democracy, some believed in NATO, in liquids, but know that Serbia was admitted to the Council of Europe during the state of emergency. It's something schizophrenic, it never happened. What companies don't do, it's our fault. Because when the neighbor lost his job, so he wanted to strike, to demonstrate, we didn't give him support, but we told him - I don't care, he hit me, he won't find me. Well, you see, that bullet played very fast on the other door. Here's the story of the crab. I don't know how many tens of thousands of jobs have been lifted. People have gone to the streets, got along with fleas. Everyone's some kind of microcosm, looking at how to patch up the ending. In the patching of the end, he lost his collectiveity. One spirit of the struggle for life is lost, and now we come to a situation where we only find bad results, and we all hoped it would be much better. We all believed those commercials, remember Vlahovic - "The Start for the Property". You remember that commercial -- new car, new apartment, summer, visa, we travel. Remember Boris Tadic during those election campaigns outside some embassies. He says, "What are you doing here?" We're waiting for a Schengen. You don't need to worry, just vote for me, for the president, it's coming off tomorrow, and we're going straight for the white Schengen. How long has it been since he was elected president? Nothing. But now no one's even thinking about that white Schengen in Serbia. Now people understand what we told them six or seven years ago -- free Schengen when you don't have money. That's right. The question is how to get out of this situation. Obviously with this government and this consolidation of the forces of the political parties leading this country, no matter how sectorally they look at it, since they've made the resistors by the feuds, there's obviously no perspective and there's no way out. There's no way out. Why is there no way out? A few days ago on TV, they say -- there was a man who was building some apartments, so 10, 17 times the same apartment sold. Of course, he probably cheated on nine or 16 customers, depending on how many times he sold the same apartment. Now smart lawyers say -- we need to make a record of the contract, so it doesn't happen that one apartment can be sold more times. And to receive the seal of the municipal court, where the signatures are confirmed. Missed. That can't stop. A year ago, you had an affair with the elite. Something that looks like Dafina and the Horse. No one but the Finance Committee even wanted to talk to these people, and it's a terrible asset. When the state doesn't work, when in an objective, impartial way, it doesn't apply regulations, then you have a mess, then no one trusts anyone. Believe me, today the citizens have come to believe that if a man is in power, he should be stealing a little bit and it's perfectly normal. It's very abnormal to say that the man is in power and he didn't steal anything. Unfortunately, it happened in Serbia. That's how Serbia is resonated today. That's what I'm thinking -- let me pull something together, secure some of my existence and be nice. You see, in all countries borrowing counts as something negative, as something bad. When the state adopts a law and says - we are in charge of the state or the IMF for five euros and up, it doesn't matter how much, it means that the state is telling both abroad and its citizens that it's in terrible trouble, that it can't solve these problems by reducing costs or internal reserves, or having a vision of how to move forward. And thanks to the media, Serbia's finance ministers are priced for how much they owed the state. The more they owe the state, the more successful they are. Let me remind you what it was 20 and a few years ago, when the so-called. the credits with the bank's avalanche, so they served as a means of payment, so the financial directors were very capable. He goes to the bank, gets in charge, takes that bill, secures the money, pays off, he says -- a very successful financial director. And then he pushes for two years, and then the company disappears. How can he be successful, by value criteria, in Serbia the man who owes us? I guess it should be a successful man who opens up jobs for us, who employs, who moves social policy from the budget and from the state to pay, to work, to individual activity. It's all the other way around. There's another kind of abuse going on with us. The state allegedly has its own development funds. It doesn't matter what they're called, both at the ministries and outside the ministries, etc. Seven percent takes the one who provides the connection. So count on three or four million dinars as much as someone took just because he called the minister, he invited someone in that development fund, he made it possible to raise a loan. A year doesn't pay off, and then some humble interest rate goes, and he counts, big deal is done. And then the ministry boasts that the big deal is over. What job? They paid the commission, took the commission of the middlemen, forgot the one in charge. Whether he can develop this job tomorrow or not, but he was complicit in what's called corruption. How can we get out of this situation with that kind of thinking? It's impossible. You see, when it comes to borrowing, all the ministers here, not Mr. Sretkovic, he never talked about it, but all these ministers who deal with economic and financial affairs in the government, they all come here and say -- we can't secure from the current inflow funds to finance public spending and we need to be in charge, and we need to be in charge of providing funds for education, health, pensions, social policy. And that's what every finance minister will tell you. Is that right? And then we have 15 agencies, and then some other para-state bodies, so by 400% the number of state service employees in these nine years, we have a lot of expenses because someone wanted to mimic the EU and in the organisational structure. Then the question arises – who do we finance by borrowing? We're in charge of borrowing. So, we're in charge of providing funds to finance -- who? What is an unnecessary cost in this country, which is neither pensioners nor health care nor education nor social policy, but we are in charge of allowing space to employ those spoken of by Todorovic, those discussed by these other MPs, etc. And who are they? It's your frames. Please, in 2000, less than a hundred people worked in the Assembly, 78 of them. How many do we have today? I'm not saying the president of the assembly has to say. Tell me, what is the legitimate reason to increase that number of employees? He's gone, absolutely. What is the legitimate reason for several times increasing the number of employees in the state administration? He's gone. Look, Sutanovac took the severance money so he doesn't work in the state service, he's dangerous for the state service. They need to move him out of the state service, and you're bringing him back as Secretary of Defense. And what kind of army will it be? People, a man is 65 years old, and by definition, he's lost his general ability to work, retired. At Rasim Ljajic you have a child of a fallen fighter, 70 and a few years working man. Let's not talk about the Deputy Prime Minister and that famous family, you know. What's the point of justice? By the will of the people. People are going to cut their veins because of Krkobic? Come on, please. What are we talking about? How many employees are employed in production? There's no record. And how do some minister's thighs work around Belgrade? Well, no labour inspection, no tax inspection is allowed in, no one is allowed in because you know who's behind it. So imagine which schizophrenic rule Serbia. A few days ago, pompous news - Rasim Ljajic formed a party. The first point of his program is that everyone gets a job. Who's he criticizing? So he criticises himself, for nine years he has been Minister of Labour and Social Policy. It only goes through in Serbia thanks to the media. And what are the media doing? Jump Gilas into the water to get the journalist out, they're a shot. The other day, the kids rebelled, he -- mild to dad, mild to mom. Well, does television go wherever it goes? That's not child abuse? Rasim Ljajic put on that yellow hat, going around the construction site. All of Serbia's illegal construction. And he's taking a nice picture there -- yes, to protect the workers, he has a wall in the center, we'll protect it. Heard about some kid back in the White Palace, he can't... The Ministry's gonna buy a used car for him, just to get a shot. Did we solve the problem? We didn't. What's settled? Hold the water until the masters leave, that's the saying. And is Serbia now in a position to choose "hold water while the masters go" or is it looking for something fundamental, rootly, with a known system of values, that everyone can believe in the state and the authorities what they do? No way. The Vienna agreement on the banking system, it is guaranteed to banks that they will earn the same profit in 2009 as they did in 2008. So if they can't secure on the market, then the state will broadcast securities of value and then we'll all be taxpayers over budgets to finance interest and commission and profits from banks from abroad. What's going on? You don't need any school for that. For such a job, you only need to be elementally defined in order to be described by Ivo Andric in one of his books. There's an association for evil times that reigns then. But it's like a value. That's the problem. And now we've come into this situation to allegedly negotiate with the IMF, there's no deal at all, it's some long-term program, some borrowing. We'll see what comes out of it, run out a lot more stuff. But I know infalliblely, this whole arrangement is not about borrowing the state and the budget, but about a few tycoons that broke in this country and the state should be guaranteed that these tycoons won't crack any more. Remember what he pulled from three banks because of overinvestment in real estate? I saw TV yesterday. Imagine, Dulic appeared in Vienna at a meeting and says -- we call on foreign investors to invest in Serbia, any investment is acceptable and each one will be approved. Then it's no wonder that in Rakovica there's an unfairly built asphalt base that's poisoning. A solution to the crash has been made, but who can bring it down? So here's the grab system. You're successful if you grab it. You're the most successful minister if you've secured the money. Who's gonna get it back? I don't care who gets it back. Dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, think about it a little bit and don't ever say - what I care who gets it back. Don't ever say that. Let's get some corn tantrum, see who's doing what, how much he's doing. Is it necessary to be in charge? You see how diabolically we run politics? Mladjan Dinkic, the IMF and the environment of the non-governmental sector dealing with finance and economy say - we have to do something with pensions. So now they're talking 16 different ways, to cut down on what the state is covering. And the state has to cover it. Why? Because the state is guaranteed and on this basis the sea will always have the means to pay the pensions. The IMF says -- you know what, we look at it so macroeconomicly, so when we look at the level of public consumption, then the number of inhabitants, then the potentials, so this, and that, that should be reduced. That in translation means, it takes a little bit of killing the pensioners, to cut down a little bit, so they can't even look for the goods in the container anymore. Now, I would ask any pensioner and anyone who doesn't work to question the Prime Minister (he is, in fact, the most responsible) – how can one family organise a life with a monthly income of 20,000, 30,000, 40,000? Those who live a little further from Belgrade are already cursing me and saying it's a large amount. For their place, it's a huge amount, but I'm telling you that even for that amount, people can't organize their lives if they have two kids in school without talking about other things. Now let me see what medals you give. The qualities of suffering? For the large amount of tolerance and patience shown by citizens of the Republic of Serbia, everything is expected – will be better. Or some more that say, well, let's get tight for a little while, just so we don't get bombed by those NATO guys. Well, don't worry, so NATO is friends with these guys, they won't bomb them. They're in power now. When they weren't theirs in power, they bombed. Now they've got theirs. Now their bombs have eyes. They can't miss. You know the territory. So that's our problem. Our problem is an irresponsible government, and I have to tell my fellow Members of the assembly that they are guilty because they support everything and everything that comes from Mirko Cvetkovic and these high-minded ministers. Consider it all critical. The people sent you here to take a critical look at these proposals, not to support everything that comes as a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Serbia at all costs. We are not voting for this bill, but we are drawing attention to you to keep an eye on you, to wait for you both at the rebalance and the budget for next year. We also remember this bill and the previous one, and we know which one you'll be offering very quickly. We remember it all, register it, and remind it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-22-0.u28813	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Does the Proposer’s representative want a word? No, I don't. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Since the National Assembly has completed a debate on all points of the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 85(3). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I determine Monday, October 26th, 2009, starting at 10.00pm as the Day of Vote on the agenda of the First Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009. So, I'll see you Monday, 10:00. Thank you for your cooperation, Mr. Minister, to you and your associates. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, several MPs are late due to traffic jam and will be in the Assembly in a moment, so we will begin a session with a delay of ten minutes, so please remain in the hall. [[Short break.]] Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that 150 MPs attend the session. I would like to remind you that Article 86 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provide that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly in voting days exists if at least 126 MPs are present at the meeting of the National Assembly, so to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic system. [[Short vote counting break.]] I would like to inform you that the sittings were prevented from being attended by the MPs: Nikola Lazic, Aleksandra Jankovic and Laslo Varga. Since the National Assembly has completed a search on all points of the agenda of this session, we are moving to a decision. We move to the 1st item of the agenda: – Proposal for a DECISION ON THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE NATIONAL SAFETY OF THE REPUBLIC OF SREBIA As the National Assembly has carried out a single search on the proposal for a decision, and before deciding on a proposal for a decision in general, we move to a decision on the amendments. The amendment to the Introduction was submitted by MP Sasa Dujovic. For four, of 132 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept the amendment. The amendment was submitted to Chapter I of the First Amendment by MP Konstantin Arsenovic. Of the 131 MPs, 11 is in favour. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was submitted to Chapter I of the 3rd Amendment by MP Konstantin Arsenovic. Of the 131 MPs, 9 is in favour. The amendment was not accepted. On Chapter I of Chapter 3, the amendment with correction was submitted by MP Sasa Dujovic. Of the 131 MPs, 11 came out. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was submitted to Chapter II by MP Konstantin Arsenovic. Of the 131 messengers, they were declared 11. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was submitted to Chapter II by MP Sasa Dujovic. Of the 132 MPs, 14. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was submitted to Chapter II by MP Konstantin Arsenovic. Of the 132 MPs, 13. The amendment was not accepted. On Chapter IV, the First Amendment was submitted by MP Konstantin Arsenovic. Of the 132 MPs, 12 have been declared to be the subject of this amendment. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was submitted to Chapter IV by MP Sasa Dujovic. Of the 132 MPs, 14. The amendment was not accepted. On Chapter IV, the First Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Cedomir Jovanovic, Zoran Ostojic, Vesna Pesic, Ivan Andric, Nebojsa Rangelovic and Kenan Hajdarevic. Of the 133 MPs, 7. The amendment was not accepted. On Chapter IV, the title of Chapter 3 and Chapter 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Konstantin Arsenovic. Of the 133 MPs, 11 MPs have been declared to this amendment. The amendment was not accepted. On Chapter IV of Chapter 4, point 4.1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Konstantin Arsenovic. Of the 133 MPs, 13 MPs have been declared to this amendment. The amendment was not accepted. On Chapter IV of Chapter 4 4.2, the amendment was submitted by MP Konstantin Arsenovic. Of the 133 MPs, 13 MPs have been declared to this amendment. The amendment was not accepted. On Chapter IV of Chapter 4 of point 4.3, the amendment was submitted by MP Konstantin Arsenovic. Of the 133 MPs, 12 MPs have been declared to this amendment. The amendment was not accepted. On Chapter IV of Chapter 4 4.4, the amendment was submitted by MP Konstantin Arsenovic. Of the 132 MPs, 13 MPs have come forward for this amendment. The amendment was not accepted. On Chapter IV of Chapter 4 of point 4.7, the amendment was submitted by MP Konstantin Arsenovic. Of the 132 MPs, 12 MPs have come forward for this amendment. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was submitted to Chapter V of the 1st Amendment by Sasa Dujovic. Of the 132 MPs, 12 MPs voted for this amendment. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment, which is added after Chapter V of Chapter VI, was submitted by MP Konstantin Arsenovic. Of the 132 MPs, 13 MPs voted for this amendment. The amendment was not accepted. Konstantin Arsenovic submitted the amendment to the conclusion. Of the 132 MPs, 14 MPs voted for this amendment. The amendment was not accepted. As we are done with the amendments, we approach the vote on the motion for a decision in general. I am putting to the vote the motion for a decision on the adoption of the National Security Strategy of the Republic of Serbia, in general. Of the 132 MPs, 125 voted in favour of the law. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a proposal for a decision on the adoption of the National Security Strategy of the Republic of Serbia. We move to the 2nd item of the agenda: – Proposal for a DECISION ON THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE SERBIA OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA After the National Assembly has carried out a single search on the proposal for a decision and before deciding on a proposal for a decision in general, we move to a decision on the amendments. For the purposes of this Chapter, the following definitions shall apply: The amendment was submitted by Parliamentarian Konstantin Arsenovic. Of the 132 MPs, 13 MPs voted for this amendment. The amendment was not accepted. For the purposes of this Chapter, the following definitions shall apply: Head of the 1.2th amendment was submitted by MP Konstantin Arsenovic. Of the 132 MPs, nine MPs voted for this amendment. The amendment was not accepted. For the purposes of this Chapter, the following definitions shall apply: Head of the 1.2th amendment was submitted by MP Konstantin Arsenovic. Of the 132 MPs, 11 MPs voted for this amendment. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was submitted to Chapter 2 by MP Sasa Dujovic. Of the 133 MPs, 14 MPs voted for this amendment. The amendment was not accepted. Konstantin Arsenovic submitted to Chapter 4 of the amendment. Of the 133 MPs, 11 MPs voted for this amendment. The amendment was not accepted. To Chapter 4. Chapters 4.1 and 4.2 of the amendment were submitted jointly by the MPs: Cedomir Jovanovic, Zoran Ostojic, Vesna Pesic, Ivan Andric, Nebojsa Rangelovic and Kenan Hajdarevic. Of the 133 MPs, 7. The amendment was not accepted. To Chapter 4. Head of the 4.2th amendment was submitted by MP Konstantin Arsenovic. Of the 132 MPs, 12 MPs voted for this amendment. The amendment was not accepted. To Chapter 4. Head of the 4.3rd amendment was submitted by MP Konstantin Arsenovic. Of the 132 MPs, 11 MPs voted for this amendment. The amendment was not accepted. To Chapter 5. The amendment was submitted by MP Konstantin Arsenovic. Of the 132 MPs, 10 MPs voted for this amendment. The amendment was not accepted. I am putting to the vote the motion for a decision on the adoption of the Strategy for the Defence of the Republic of Serbia, in general. Of the 132 MPs, 126 MPs voted in favour. The National Assembly adopted a proposal for a decision to adopt a Strategy for Defence of the Republic of Serbia. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and DEFINITIONS After the National Assembly has conducted a search of the Bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on Defence, in principle. Of the 128 MPs, 125 MPs voted in favour. The National Assembly accepted the bill in principle. Since the National Assembly accepted the draft law in principle, and before we move to the vote on amendments, I remind you that the Legislative Committee, on the basis of Article 147(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, rejected, as incomplete, the amendment of MP Sasa Dujovic, adding a new Article 20a after Article 20, making this amendment compatible with Article 148(3). Rules of Procedure, it wasn't the subject of debate and it's not being voted on. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. No one voted yes. The amendment was not accepted. The 2nd amendment was submitted by a group of 20 MPs of the Progress Serbia Group. No one voted yes. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Popovic. No one voted yes. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Ljubisa Petkovic. No one voted yes. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. No one voted yes. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. No one voted yes. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Krstin. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. Ambassador Vlatko Ratkovic submitted to the 4th amendment. The government has accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Of the 126 MPs, 121 MPs voted for this amendment. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 4th amendment. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 4th amendment was submitted by a group of 20 MPs from the Progressive Group of Serbia. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 7th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Vlatko Ratkovic. Of the 126 MPs, 123 voted for this amendment. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. The 9th amendment was submitted by a group of 20 MPs from the Progressive Group of Serbia. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Ljubisa Petkovic. Of the 127 MPs, one came forward. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 10th Amendment was submitted by MP Ljubisa Petkovic. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 12th Amendment was submitted by MP Ljubisa Petkovic. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 17th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 24th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 24th Amendment was submitted by MP Ljubisa Petkovic. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 29th amendment was submitted by Milica Vojic-Markovic. No one's answered for it. The amendment was not accepted. Konstantin Arsenović submitted to Article 30 of the amendment. Of the 127 MPs, 8. The amendment was not accepted. The 30th Amendment was submitted by a parliamentary group of 20 National Ambassadors to the Progressive Group of Serbia. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 30th Amendment was submitted by Aleksandra Jankovic. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 32nd amendment was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 34th Amendment was submitted by MP Ljubisa Petkovic. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 35th Amendment was submitted by MP Ljubisa Petkovic. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I'm putting to the vote a bill on amendments and additions to the Defence Act, in general. Of the 127 MPs, 124 voted in favour. The National Assembly passed a bill on amendments and additions to the Defence Act. We move to item 4 of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of the Law on the military of Serbia After the National Assembly has carried out a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. Of the 127 MPs, 127 were declared. The National Assembly accepted the bill, in principle. Before moving to the vote, I would like to remind you that the Legislative Committee, on the basis of Article 148(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, rejected as incomplete the amendment of MP Sasa Dujovic, adding new members of 45a and 45b after article 45b. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 20 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group submitted to the 1st amendment. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The second amendment was submitted by Aleksandra Jankovic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Ambassador Vlatko Ratkovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government has accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Of the 127 MPs, 121 MPs voted in favour. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. The 4th amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jankovic and joint MPs Cedomir Jovanovic, Zoran Ostojic, Vesna Pesic, Nebojsa Rangelovic and Kenan Hajdarevic. Of the 127 MPs, one came forward. The amendment was not accepted. The third amendment was submitted by Aleksandra Jankovic. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 4th Amendment was jointly submitted by Dragan Šormaz, Miroslav Petkovic, Milos Aligrudic, Jovan Palalic and Zoran Nikolic. No one for, of 127 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 5th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 5th Amendment was submitted by Aleksandra Jankovic. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Srboljub Zivanovic. No one for, of 127 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. The 7th Amendment was submitted by Aleksandra Jankovic. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. Konstantin Arsenović submitted to Article 8 of the amendment. Of the 127 MPs, 8. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 9th Amendment was submitted by Aleksandra Jankovic. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 11th amendment was submitted by a group of 20 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. A member of the 15th amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 15th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Please state Mr. Maric's amendment. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 15th amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 17th amendment was submitted by Konstantin Arsenović. Of 127 MPs, 9 for. The amendment was not accepted. The 19th amendment was submitted by a group of 20 MPs from the Progressive Group of Serbia. No one, of the 127 MPs, has been accepted. Konstantin Arsenović submitted to Article 20 of the amendment. Of the 127 MPs, 12 voted in favour of this amendment. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 21st Amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 20th amendment was submitted to the same text by MP Konstantin Arsenovic and a group of 20 MPs from the Progressive Group of Serbia. Of the 127 MPs, 7. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 25th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 29th amendment was submitted by Konstantin Arsenović. Of the 127 MPs, 9. The amendment was not accepted. The 32nd Amendment was submitted by Aleksandra Jankovic. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 36th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Nikola Savic. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. Prime Minister Vlad Milojkovic submitted the amendment to Article 37. No one for, of 127 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 38th Amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Duvnjak. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill, in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Serbian Army, in general. Of the 127 MPs, 124 were declared to the law. The National Assembly passed a bill amending and supplementing Serbia's Military Law. We move to the 5th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on War, Work and Material Obligation Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the Bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I am voting on the draft law on military, labour and material obligations, in principle. Of the 127 MPs, 125 were declared. The National Assembly accepted the bill in principle. Since the National Assembly accepted the bill in principle and before moving to a decision on amendments, I remind you that, by written means, the amendments were withdrawn by the MPs: Konstantin Arsenović to Articles 4, 8, 24, 32, 42, the amendment which proposed the addition of a new member of 46a and members 49, 51 and 75, together Tomislav Nikolic, Jorvanka Tabaković, Zoran Antic, Veroljub Arsic, Zoran Babić, Igor Bečić, Jelena Budimirović, Bozidar Delić, Stefan Zankov, Oto Kišmarton, Milan Knezevic, Saša Maksimović, Zoran Mašić, Predrag Mijatović, Ljiljana Miladinović, Mileta Poscurica, Gojko Radić, Mićo Rogović, Vuceta Tošković and Dragan Čolić, to Article 54, to Article 55 and Article 75, and Article 7 of the position of the Agreement and Article 7 of the Agreement. It's a bill of law. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Ljubisa Petkovic. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. Konstantin Arsenovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government has accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Of the 127 MPs, 121 voted for the amendment. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Ljubisa Petkovic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Ljubisa Petkovic. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. Konstantin Arsenović submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. The government has accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Of the 127 MPs, 123 voted for the amendment. The National Assembly accepted this amendment. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Sladjan Mijaljevic. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Ljubisa Petkovic. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 10th Amendment was submitted by MP Ljubisa Petkovic. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 10th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. Konstantin Arsenović submitted to the 10th amendment. Of the 127 MPs, 12 voted in favour of this amendment. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 10th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Škrbic. No one for, of 127 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 11th Amendment was submitted by MP Ljubisa Petkovic. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 12th amendment was submitted by Aleksandar Martinovic. No one for, of 127 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. A member of the 12th Amendment was submitted by the MP, Ms Radet. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 12th amendment was submitted by MP Sladjan Mijaljevic. No one for, of 127 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. No one for, of 127 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 16th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. No one for, of 127 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 17th Amendment was submitted by MP Ljubisa Petkovic. No one for, of 127 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 18th amendment was submitted by MP Natasa Jovanovic. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 19th Amendment was submitted by MP Ljubisa Petkovic. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 21st Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Buh. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Konstantin Arsenovic tabled an amendment proposing that a new member of 21a be added after article 21. Of the 127 MPs, 12 voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 22nd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Of 127 MPs, one for. The amendment was not accepted. The 23rd amendment was submitted by Ambassador Nikola Savic. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 24th amendment was submitted by Miroslav Markicevic. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 25th amendment was submitted by a group of 20 MPs from the Progressive Group of Serbia. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 25th Amendment was submitted by MP Ljubisa Petkovic. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 25th amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 26th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milan Avramovic. No one for, of 127 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 27th amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 27th amendment was submitted by a group of 20 MPs from the Progressive Group of Serbia. No one for, of 127 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. The 28th amendment was submitted by a group of 20 MPs from the Progressive Group of Serbia. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 28th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Škrbic. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 29th amendment was submitted by Aleksandar Martinovic. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 30th Amendment was submitted by the MEP, Ms Radet. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 31st Amendment was submitted by MP Ljubisa Petkovic. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. Konstantin Arsenovic submitted to the 31st Amendment. Of the 127 MPs, 10 voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 32nd amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 33rd amendment was submitted by Konstantin Arsenovic. Of the 127 MPs, 8. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 33rd amendment was submitted by Ambassador Sladjan Mijaljevic. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 20 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the amendment of the 33rd. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 34th Amendment was submitted by Gordana Pop-Lazic. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. Konstantin Arsenović submitted to the 35th amendment. Of the 127 MPs, 9. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 36th Amendment was submitted by MP Ljubisa Petkovic. No one for, of 127 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 37th amendment was submitted by MP Natasa Jovanovic. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendments Dragan Šormaz, Jovan Palalic, Miroslav Petkovic, Milos Aligrudic, Aleksandar Pejcic and Zoran Nikolic submitted together. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 37th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Zoran Antic. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 38th Amendment was submitted by a group of 20 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" Group. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 38th Amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Vlatko Ratkovic. The government has accepted an amendment with a correction. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment, with correction, is legally possible. Of the 127 MPs, this amendment was voted by 119, so I find that the National Assembly has accepted the amendment. Member of the 40th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 40th Amendment was submitted by a group of 20 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" Group. No one for, of 127 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 41st Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Nikola Savic. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 41st Amendment was submitted by a group of 20 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" Group. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 41st Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Buh. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 42nd amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. No one for, of 127 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 20 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the amendment 42nd. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 44th Amendment, with a correction, was submitted by a group of 20 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" parliamentary group. The government has accepted the amendment, with a correction. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment, with correction, is legally possible. Of the 127 MPs, 117 voted in favour. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. The 45th amendment, with a correction, was filed by MP Konstantin Arsenovic. 11 MPs voted for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Dragan Šormaz, Jovan Palalic, Miroslav Petkovic, Milos Aligrudic, Aleksandar Pejcic and Zoran Nikolic submitted together to the 46th amendment. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. Konstantin Arsenovic submitted to the 46th amendment. Of the 127 MPs, 11 MPs voted for this amendment. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 46th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Vlatko Ratkovic. The government has accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Of the 127 MPs, 119 voted. The National Assembly accepted this amendment. Member of the 46th Amendment was submitted by MP Ljubisa Petkovic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Konstantin Arsenovic submitted to the 47th amendment. Of the 127 MPs for this amendment, eight voted. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 47th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 47th amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 47th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 48th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Škrbic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Alexander Martinovic submitted to the 48th amendment. No one for, of 127 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. A member of the 48th Amendment was submitted by the Ambassador of the Prophet of Radet. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 48th amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 49th Amendment was submitted by MP Ljubisa Petkovic. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 49th amendment was submitted by Ambassador Sladjan Mijaljevic. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 49th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 49th amendment was submitted by MP Natasa Jovanovic. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 51st Amendment was submitted by MP Ljubisa Petkovic. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 51st Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. No one voted for Mr Krasic's amendment. He's not accepted. Konstantin Arsenović submitted to Article 52 of the amendment. Of the 127 MPs to this amendment, eight were declared. The amendment was not accepted. The 52nd Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Buh. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 52nd amendment was submitted by Ambassador Nikola Savic. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 52nd amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 53rd amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 54th amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. Konstantin Arsenovic submitted to the 54th amendment. Of the 126 MPs, the amendment voted 8. The amendment was not accepted. Ambassador Vlatko Ratkovic submitted to the 54th amendment. The government has accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. Of the 126 MPs, 115 voted in favour. The National Assembly has accepted the amendment. Ambassador Milan Skrbic submitted to the 55th amendment. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 55th amendment was submitted by a group of 20 MPs from the Progressive Group of Serbia. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Alexander Martinovic submitted to the 56th amendment. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 57th amendment was submitted by a group of 20 MPs from the Progressive Group of Serbia. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. A member of the 57th Amendment was submitted by a member of the Members of the People of Radet. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 58th amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 59th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Sladjan Mijaljevic. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 59th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. Parliamentarian Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 61st amendment. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 61st Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. No one for, of 127 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. The 62nd Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Buh. One MP voted for this amendment, since 127. The amendment was not accepted. The 63rd amendment was submitted by Konstantin Arsenovic. Of the 127 MPs, 9. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 66th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Nikola Savic. No one for, of 127 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Konstantin Arsenovic submitted to Article 68 of the amendment. The government has accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Of the 127 MPs, 116 voted yes. The National Assembly has accepted the amendment. Member of the 69th amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. Ambassador Milan Avramovic submitted to the 70th amendment. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 75th amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 76th Amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. Konstantin Arsenović submitted to Article 82 of the amendment. Of the 126 MPs, 8. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 89th Amendment was submitted by MP Milan Škrbic. Please let us be clear about this amendment. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. Alexander Martinovic submitted to the 90th Amendment. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 91st Amendment has been submitted by a member of the Members of the People of Radet. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Konstantin Arsenović submitted to Article 91 of the amendment. Of the 126 MPs, five voted for this amendment. The amendment was not accepted. The 93rd amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 94th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. Under the name of Glava IV and Article 95 of the amendment, MP Konstantin Arsenovic submitted. Of the 127 MPs, 6 were declared. The amendment was not accepted. On Article 102, the amendment was submitted by Konstantin Arsenović. Of the 127 MPs, 11. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 20 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group submitted to the 108th amendment. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. Konstantin Arsenovic submitted to Article 114 of the amendment. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. Konstantin Arsenović submitted to the 120th amendment. The government has accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Of the 127 MPs, this amendment was voted 115. The amendment has been accepted. On Article 128 of the amendment, with correction, was filed by MP Srdjan Spasojevic. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. Ambassador Srdjan Spasojevic submitted to Article 131 of the amendment. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was submitted to Article 132 by MP Srdjan Spasojevic. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 134th amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Spasojevic. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. Ambassador Vlatko Ratkovic submitted to Article 135 of the amendment. The government has accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Of the 127 MPs, 120 have been declared to this amendment. The National Assembly has accepted the amendment. The 138th amendment was submitted by Aleksandar Martinovic. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 20 MPs from the Progressive Group submitted to the 138th amendment. The government has accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Of the 127 MPs, 106 is in favour. The amendment has been accepted. Member of the 138th Amendment was submitted by MP Ljubisa Petkovic. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 141st amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Batic. The government has accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Of the 127 MPs, 104 voted for this amendment. The amendment has been accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put the draft law on military, labour and material obligations in general. Please make a statement. Of the 127 MPs, 122 voted in favour. The National Assembly passed a bill on military, labour and material obligations. We move to the 6th item of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF CIVIL SERVICE Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put the draft civil service law to the vote, in principle. Of the 127 MPs, 125 were declared. I find the bill accepted in principle. By written amendment they withdrew: Member of Parliament Konstantin Arsenović to art. 45th and 57th, a group of 20 MPs from the Progress Serbia Group to Art. 13 and Ambassador Zoran Antic to Article 17. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. The first amendment was jointly submitted by Cedomir Jovanovic, Zoran Ostojic, Vesna Pesic, Nebojsa Rangelovic and Kenan Hajdarevic. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. The National MP Nenad Canak submitted to the 1st Amendment. Of the 127 MPs, four have been declared to this amendment. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. The People's MP, Nenad Canak, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Of the 127 MPs, 10 voted for this amendment. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Acimovic. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. The People's MP, Nenad Canak, submitted to the Third Amendment. Of 127 MPs, in four. The amendment was not accepted. Konstantin Arsenović submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Of 127 MPs, for 9. The amendment was not accepted. On Article 3 of the amendment, a group of 20 MPs from the "Forward Serbia" group submitted. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 4th amendment was submitted by Parliamentarian Milorad Buha and joint MPs Dragan Šormaz, Jovan Palalic, Miroslav Petkovic, Milos Aligrudic, Aleksandar Pejcic and Zoran Nikolic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Konstantin Arsenović submitted to the 4th amendment. Of the 127 MPs, for 8. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 5th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Veselinović. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Ambassador Vlatko Ratkovic submitted to the 5th amendment. The government has accepted the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Of 127 MPs, for 119. The amendment has been accepted. The 5th amendment was submitted by Konstantin Arsenovic. Of the 127 MPs, for 14. The amendment was not accepted. On article 5 of the amendment, with correction, he filed Nenad Canak. Of 127 MPs, for 9. The amendment was not accepted. The 5th Amendment was submitted by a group of 20 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Vukovic. Of 127 MPs, for four. The amendment was not accepted. On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Canak. Of 127 MPs, for five. The amendment was not accepted. The 7th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MPs Momcilo Duvnjak and Nenad Canak. Of the 127 MPs, no one voted yes. The amendment was not accepted. The 8th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by a group of 20 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group and MP Branimir Djokic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Srboljub Zivanovic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The title above article 10 and article 10 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Canak. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 10th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Dragan Zivkov. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 11th amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MPs Nikola Žutic and Nenad Canak. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 11th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Zoran Antic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. On Article 12 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Nenad Canak and Radisa Ilic submitted. Of the 127 MPs, the vote was 6. The amendment was not accepted. The 13th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by the MPs Natasa Jovanovic and Nenad Canak. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The title above Articles 14 and 14 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Canak. Of 127 MPs, in 6. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 14th amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 15th amendment was submitted by MP Radica Jocic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 15th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Nenad Canak. Of the 127 MPs, for 8. The amendment was not accepted. The 16th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MPs Nenad Canak and Ljubomir Kragovic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 17th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. On Article 17, the amendment was submitted by a group of 20 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 17th amendment was submitted by Miroslav Markicevic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 18th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Krstin. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 18th amendment was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 19th amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Maric. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 19th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Nenad Canak. Of 127 MPs, for five. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 20th amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 21st Amendment was submitted by MP Sladjan Mijaljevic. None for, of the 127 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 21st Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Nenad Canak. No one for the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. Tomislav Ljubenović submitted to the 22nd amendment. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 22nd amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Batic. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 23rd amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marko Milenkovic. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 23rd amendment was submitted by a group of 20 MPs of the Progress Serbia Group. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 23rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Cedomir Jovanovic, Zoran Ostojic, Vesna Pesic, Nebojsa Rangelovic and Kenan Hajdarevic. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 24th amendment was submitted by MP Vlad Milojkovic. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 24th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Nenad Canak. Of the 127 MPs, two have come forward for this amendment. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 25th amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. No one for, of 127 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. The 25th Amendment was jointly submitted by Cedomir Jovanovic, Zoran Ostojic, Vesna Pesic, Nebojsa Rangelovic and Kenan Hajdarevic. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 26th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Ognjen Mihajlovic. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 26th Amendment was jointly submitted by Cedomir Jovanovic, Zoran Ostojic, Vesna Pesic, Nebojsa Rangelovic and Kenan Hajdarevic. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 27th amendment was submitted by MP Goran Mihajlovic. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 28th amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Mladenovic. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 29th amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 30th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milan M. Nikolic. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 31st Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Paunovic-Milosavljevic. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. Konstantin Arsenovic submitted to the 31st Amendment. The government has accepted the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Of the 127 MPs, 121 declared themselves. The amendment has been accepted. Member of the 31st Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Zoran Antic. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. On Article 32 of the amendment in the same text, MPs Sreto Peric and Zoran Antic submitted. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 33rd amendment was submitted by MP Dušanka Plecevic. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 33rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Cedomir Jovanovic, Zoran Ostojic, Vesna Pesic, Nebojsa Rangelovic and Kenan Hajdarevic. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 34th Amendment was submitted by Vitomir Plužarevic. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. Konstantin Arsenovic submitted to the 34th amendment. The government has accepted the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Of the 127 MPs, 116 were in favour. The amendment has been accepted. Member of the 35th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. Of 127 MPs none for. The amendment was not accepted. The 36th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Popovic and joint MPs Cedomir Jovanovic, Zoran Ostojic, Vesna Pesic, Nebojsa Rangelovic and Kenan Hajdarevic. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. Ambassador Dobrislav Prelic submitted to Article 37 of the amendment. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 38th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marina Ragush. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 38th Amendment was jointly submitted by Dragan Šormaz, Jovan Palalic, Miroslav Petkovic, Milos Aligrudic and Zoran Nikolic. None for 127 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Milovanovic submitted to the 39th amendment. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 40th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Nikola Savic. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 41st Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Suleyman Spaho. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 42nd amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. No one voted yes. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 43rd amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic. No one voted yes. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Konstantin Arsenovic tabled an amendment proposing the addition of a new member of 43a. Of the 127 MPs, 11 MPs came forward for the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 44th Amendment was submitted by MP Ljubisa Petkovic. No one voted yes. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 45th Amendment was submitted by MP Ljubisa Petkovic. No one voted yes. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 46th Amendment was submitted by MP Ljubisa Petkovic. No one voted yes. The amendment was not accepted. Konstantin Arsenovic submitted to the 46th amendment. Since 127 MPs voted eight MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 47th amendment was submitted by MP Ljubisa Petkovic. No one voted in favour of 127 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 48th amendment was submitted by MP Ljubisa Petkovic. No one voted yes. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 49th Amendment was submitted by MP Ljubisa Petkovic. No one voted yes. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 49th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Zoran Antic. No one voted yes. The amendment was not accepted. The 50th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. No one voted yes. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 51st amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. No one voted yes. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 52nd amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. No one voted yes. The amendment was not accepted. Konstantin Arsenović submitted to Article 52 of the amendment. The government has accepted the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Of the 127 MPs, 119 were declared. The National Assembly has accepted the amendment. Member of the 53rd amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. No one voted in favour of 127 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Konstantin Arsenovic submitted to the 53rd amendment. The government has accepted the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Of the 127 MPs, 116 declared themselves. The amendment has been accepted. Member of the 54th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. No one voted yes. The amendment was not accepted. Konstantin Arsenovic submitted to the 54th amendment. The government has accepted the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Of the 127 MPs, 116 declared themselves. The amendment has been accepted. Member of the 55th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. No one voted in favour of 127 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. The 55th amendment was submitted by a group of 20 MPs from the Progressive Group of Serbia. No one voted in favour of 127 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Ambassador Milan Skrbic submitted to the 56th amendment. No one voted yes. The amendment was not accepted. Ambassador Milan Skrbic submitted to the 57th amendment. No one voted yes. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 58th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Škrbic. No one voted yes. The amendment was not accepted. The 58th Amendment was jointly submitted by Cedomir Jovanovic, Zoran Ostojic, Vesna Pesic, Nebojsa Rangelovic and Kenan Hajdarevic. No one voted yes. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 59th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Škrbic. No one voted yes. The amendment was not accepted. Ambassador Milan Škrbic submitted to the 60th amendment. No one voted yes. The amendment was not accepted. Ambassador Milan Skrbic submitted to the 61st amendment. No one voted yes. The amendment was not accepted. The 62nd amendment was submitted by Aleksandar Martinovic. No one voted yes. The amendment was not accepted. The 63rd amendment was submitted by Aleksandar Martinovic. No one voted yes. The amendment was not accepted. Alexander Martinovic submitted to the 64th amendment. No one voted yes. The amendment was not accepted. The 65th Amendment was submitted by Aleksandar Martinovic. No one voted yes. The amendment was not accepted. The 66th Amendment was submitted by Aleksandar Martinovic. No one voted yes. The amendment was not accepted. Alexander Martinovic submitted to Article 67 of the amendment. No one voted yes. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 68th Amendment was submitted by a member of the Members of the People of Radet. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 68th amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Batic. The government has accepted the amendment. Of the 127 MPs, 110 voted in favour of the amendment. The amendment has been accepted. Member of the 69th Amendment was submitted by the Ambassador of the Prophet of Radet. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. A member of the 70th Amendment was submitted by the Ambassador of the Prophet of Radet. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. A member of the 71st Amendment was submitted by a member of the Verse of Radet. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 72nd Amendment was submitted by the Ambassador of the Faith of Radet. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 73rd Amendment was submitted by a member of the Members of the People of Radet. This is, by the way, the last amendment. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I'm putting the draft civil service law to the vote, in general. Of the 127 MPs, 122 voted yes. I find that we have passed the Civil Service Act. We move to the 7th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on the Use of Military Serbia and other powers of defence in multinational operations outside the border of the Republic of Serbia Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the Bill in principle and in particular, we move to decision-making. I'm putting the bill to the vote. Of the 127 MPs, 122 were declared. The assembly accepted the bill in principle. Under the name of the amendment bill, with the correction, the MPs Bozidar Delic and Gojko Radic together submitted. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. Under the name of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Jankovic. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. Under the name of the bill, the amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 1st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Antic and Zoran Babic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The first amendment was submitted by Aleksandra Jankovic. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by the MEP, Ms Radet. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 2nd Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Bozidar Delic and Mico Rogovic. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. The second amendment was submitted by Aleksandra Jankovic. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 2nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Jelena Budimirovic and Dragan Colic. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 2nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Šormaz, Jovan Palalic, Miroslav Petkovic, Milos Aligrudic, Aleksandar Pejcic and Zoran Nikolic Niko for. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Konstantin Arsenovic tabled an amendment proposing the addition of a new article 3. Of the 127 MPs, 8. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 3rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Veroljub Arsic and Otto Kishmarton. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The third amendment was submitted by Aleksandra Jankovic. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Buh. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. The amendment was not accepted. The 5th Amendment was submitted by Aleksandra Jankovic. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 5th amendment was submitted by MP Vuceta Toskovic. The previous amendment was not accepted. No one has pleaded for that amendment. We now declare an amendment to Mr. Toskovic's 5th member. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 6th Amendment was submitted by Aleksandra Jankovic. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. Ljiljana Miladanovic submitted to the 6th amendment. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 6th amendment. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. On behalf of the Head of the 7th Amendment, MP Sasa Maksimovic submitted. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 7th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Colic. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 7th Amendment was submitted by Aleksandra Jankovic. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 8th Amendment was submitted by Aleksandra Jankovic. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Zoran Mašić. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by Cedomir Jovanovic, Zoran Ostojic, Vesna Pesic, Nebojsa Rangelovic and Kenan Hajdarevic. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Bozidar Delic. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Šormaz, Jovan Palalic, Miroslav Petkovic, Milos Aligrudic, Aleksandar Pejcic and Zoran Nikolic. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Igor Becic. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 9th Amendment was submitted by Aleksandra Jankovic. I'd like to make a statement about Mrs. Jankovic's amendment. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 10th amendment was submitted by Jelena Budimirovic. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 10th Amendment was submitted by Aleksandra Jankovic. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 10th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Knezevic and Dragan Todorovic. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by Cedomir Jovanovic, Zoran Ostojic, Vesna Pesic, Nebojsa Rangelovic and Kenan Hajdarevic. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Šormaz, Jovan Palalic, Miroslav Petkovic, Milos Aligrudic, Aleksandar Pejcic and Zoran Nikolic. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 11th Amendment was submitted by Aleksandra Jankovic. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 12th Amendment was submitted by Aleksandra Jankovic. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 12th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Stefan Zankov. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 12th amendment was submitted by Aleksandar Martinovic. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 13th Amendment was submitted by Aleksandra Jankovic. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by MP Gojko Radic. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Bozidar Delic. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Zoran Krasic. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 14th amendment was submitted by MP Predrag Mijatovic. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 14th Amendment was submitted by Aleksandra Jankovic. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 14th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 14th amendment was submitted by Ambassador Zoran Antic. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 15th Amendment was submitted by Aleksandra Jankovic. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 16th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Zoran Babic. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 16th Amendment was submitted by Aleksandra Jankovic. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 17th amendment was submitted by MP Mico Rogovic. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 17th Amendment was submitted by Aleksandra Jankovic. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 17th amendment was submitted by Ambassador Bozidar Delic. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 18th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Otto Kishmarton. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 18th Amendment was submitted by Aleksandra Jankovic. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. On behalf of the Head of the 19th Amendment, MP Sasa Maksimovic submitted. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. On behalf of the Head of the 19th Amendment, MP Aleksandra Jankovic submitted. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. Ljiljana Miladanovic submitted to the 19th amendment. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 20th amendment was submitted by Jelena Budimirovic. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 20th amendment was submitted by Dragan Stevanovic. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 21st Amendment was submitted by MP Igor Becic. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 22nd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. Ambassador Veroljub Arsic submitted to the 22nd amendment. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 22nd amendment was submitted by Ambassador Bozidar Delic. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 23rd amendment was submitted by Ambassador Zoran Antic. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 24th amendment was submitted by MP Predrag Mijatovic. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 25th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Colic. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 26th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Zoran Mašić. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 26th Amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 27th amendment was submitted by Ambassador Zoran Babic. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 27th Amendment was submitted by Jorgenka Tabakovic. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 27th amendment was submitted by MP Mico Rogovic. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 27th Amendment was submitted by MP Vuceta Toskovic. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 28th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Stefan Zankov. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 28th amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 29th amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. Ljiljana Miladanovic submitted to the 29th amendment. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 30th amendment was submitted by Jelena Budimirovic. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 31st Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Zoran Antic. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. Ambassador Milan Knezevic submitted to Article 32 of the amendment. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. A member of the 33rd amendment was submitted by MP Milet Poscuric. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 34th amendment was submitted by MP Mico Rogovic. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Gojko Radic submitted to the 35th amendment. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. Parliamentarian Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 35th amendment. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 36th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Colic. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. On behalf of the Head above Article 37, the amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. On behalf of the Head above Article 37, the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Jankovic. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 37th amendment was submitted by MP Sasa Maksimovic. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 37th Amendment was jointly submitted by Cedomir Jovanovic, Zoran Ostojic, Vesna Pesic, Nebojsa Rangelovic and Kenan Hajdarevic. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. An MP named Milorad Buha submitted to the 37th Amendment. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 38th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Zoran Antic. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 38th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 39th amendment was submitted by MP Mico Rogovic. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. Ambassador Predrag Mijatovic submitted to the 40th amendment. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 41st Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Zoran Babic. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. A member of the 41st Amendment was submitted by the Ambassador of the Prophet of Radet. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 42nd amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Batic. The government has accepted the amendment. Of the 112 MPs, 107 voted. The amendment has been accepted. The 43rd amendment was submitted by Ambassador Bozidar Delic. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I am putting to the vote the bill on the use of the Serbian Army and other defence forces in multinational operations outside the borders of the Republic of Serbia, in general. Of the 126 MPs, 122 voted in favour. The National Assembly passed a bill on the use of the Serbian Army and other defence forces in multinational operations outside the borders of the Republic of Serbia, in general. We move to the 8th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a LAW ON THE DESCRIPTIONS OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA After the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law on the honours of the Republic of Serbia, in principle. Of the 126 MPs, 122 voted in favour. The National Assembly accepted the bill, in principle. Since we have adopted the bill in principle, we are moving to a decision on amendments. A group of 20 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group submitted to the 2nd amendment. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 3rd amendment was submitted by Aleksandar Martinovic. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 5th amendment was submitted by a group of 20 MPs from the Progressive Group of Serbia. The government has accepted the amendment. Of the 127 MPs, 105 voted in favour. The amendment has been accepted. The 8th amendment was submitted by a group of 20 MPs from the Progressive Group of Serbia. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 8th amendment was submitted by MP Sasa Dujovic. The vote was nine out of 126 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Sladjan Mijaljevic. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 9th amendment was submitted by a group of 20 MPs from the Progressive Group of Serbia. Of the 126 MPs none for. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 9th amendment was submitted by MP Sasa Dujovic. Of the 126 MPs, four voted for this amendment. The amendment was not accepted. A member of the 10th Amendment was submitted by a member of the Members of the People of Radet. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 10th amendment was submitted by a group of 20 MPs from the Progressive Group of Serbia. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 11th amendment was submitted by MP Sasa Dujovic. Of the 126 MPs, three voted for this amendment. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 14th amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 14th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Buh. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 14th amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 14th amendment was submitted by a group of 20 MPs from the Progressive Group of Serbia. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 15th amendment was submitted by MP Sasa Dujovic. Of the 127 MPs, five were declared for the amendment, so the amendment was not adopted. Member of the 15th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 16th Amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. Alexander Martinovic submitted to the 19th amendment. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 21st Amendment was submitted by the Ambassador of the Faith of Radet. No one has pleaded for this amendment, so it is not accepted. Member of the 21st Amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 21st Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Buh. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 22nd amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 22nd amendment was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. The government has accepted the amendment. Of the 127 MPs, 117 voted in favour. The amendment has been accepted. So Mr. Alexic's amendment was accepted. Member of the 24th amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 24th amendment was submitted by MP Sasa Dujovic. Of the 127 MPs, this amendment was voted on by 6. The amendment was not accepted. The 24th amendment was submitted by a group of 20 MPs from the Progressive Group of Serbia. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 25th amendment was submitted by Ambassador Sladjan Mijaljevic. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 26th amendment was submitted by a group of 20 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. This is the last amendment. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law on the honours of the Republic of Serbia, in general. Of the 127 MPs, 125 is in favour. The National Assembly passed a bill on the honours of the Republic of Serbia. We move to the 9th item of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF THE DYASPORA AND SERBIA IN REGION After the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in detail, we move to decision-making. I put the draft law on diaspora and Serbs in the region in principle. Of the 127 MPs, 123 were declared. The National Assembly accepted the bill in principle. Since we have adopted the bill in principle, we are moving to a decision on amendments. The name of the Law, amendments to the same text, was submitted by the international MPs Aleksandra Jankovic and Milorad Buh. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. International MPs Aleksandra Jankovic and MP Branimir Djokic submitted to the amendment in the same text. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 1st amendment include joint mid-day MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic-Markovic and Nikola Lazic. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 2nd amendment were submitted to the same text by the international MPs Aleksandra Jankovic and Zoran Krasic. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. The title above Articles 3 and 3 of the amendment together include the mid-term MPs Donka Banović, Milica Vojić-Markovic, Nikola Lazic and Željko Tomic. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. Under the name of Chapter II, above Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. Name of Chapter II, above Article 4, title above Article 4. and member of the 4th amendment was filed by MP Aleksandra Jankovic. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Relations with Serbs outside Serbia tabled an amendment to Article 4. The government has accepted the amendment and I am putting this amendment to the vote. Please, we'll have to determine the quorum, gentlemen. Someone moved, but I'm going to have to determine the quorum. Please insert identification cards into MPs to determine if there are 126 of us. Gentlemen, please insert identification cards into MPs' units. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by the Ambassador of the Faith of Radet. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. Back to page 10, please. On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Committee on Relations with Serbs outside Serbia have submitted an amendment to Article 4. The government has accepted the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. Of the 126 MPs, 113 voted for this amendment. I understand the amendment has been accepted. National MPs Donka Banovic and Nikola Lazic submitted together to the 4th amendment. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by Ambassador Zoran Nikolic. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 4th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zeljko Tomic and Milica Vojic-Markovic. The government and the Committee on Relations with Serbs outside Serbia have accepted the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. Of the 127 MPs, 116 voted for this amendment. The amendment has been accepted. The 4th amendment was submitted by Aleksandar Martinovic. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Antic. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. On the title above Articles 5 and 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Milan Dimitrijevic, Milica Vojić-Markovic and Željko Tomic together submitted the title above Articles 5 and 5 of the amendment. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 6th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Sladjan Mijaljevic. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banovic, Zoran Nikolic and Nikola Lazic. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 6th Amendment was submitted by Aleksandra Jankovic. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 6th Amendment was submitted by a group of 20 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 6th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Škrbic. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Antic. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 7th Amendment was submitted by a group of 20 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. On behalf of Glava III above Article 9, the title above Article 9 and Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic-Markovic and Nikola Lazic. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. The title above article 10 and article 10 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 11th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banovic and Milan Dimitrijevic. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic and Zeljko Tomic. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 11th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Zoran Nikolic. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 11th amendment was submitted by Ambassador Nikola Lazic. The government and the Committee on Relations with Serbs outside Serbia have accepted the amendment. Of the 127 MPs, 120 were declared. The amendment has been accepted. The title above Articles 12 and 12 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 12th amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Jankovic and MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. On Article 12, the amendment was submitted by a group of 20 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 13th Amendment in the same text was submitted by the government and together by the MPs Aleksandar Chotric, Aleksandar Jugovic, Mirko Cikiriz and Zika Gojkovic. The government has accepted the amendment of the MPs. The Committee on Relations with Serbs outside Serbia has accepted the government's amendment and amendments to the MPs. Of the 127 MPs, 100 voted in favour. The amendment has been accepted. The 14th amendment was submitted by Aleksandar Martinovic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic, Zoran Nikolic and Donka Banovic. The government and the Committee on Relations with Serbs outside Serbia have accepted the amendment. Of 127 MPs, for 111. The amendment has been accepted. The title above Articles 15 and 15 of the amendment was jointly submitted by Donka Banović, Zoran Nikolic and Milica Vojic-Markovic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The title above Articles 15 and 15 of the amendment, in the same text, was submitted by Aleksandra Jankovic and MP Branimir Djokic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Donka Banović, Zoran Nikolic and Milica Vojić-Markovic and Zeljko Tomic together submitted the title above Articles 16 and 16 of the amendment. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The title above Articles 16 and 16 of the amendment, in the same text, was submitted by Aleksandra Jankovic and MP Vjerica Radet. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Aleksandra Jankovic and MP Dejan Mirovic submitted an amendment, in the same text, suggesting that a new member of the 16a be added after article 16. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The title above Articles 17 and 17 of the amendment was jointly submitted by Donka Banović, Zoran Nikolic and Milica Vojic-Markovic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The title above Articles 17 and 17 of the amendment, in the same text, were submitted by Aleksandra Jankovic and MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. On the 17th amendment, in the same text, the government and joint MPs Aleksandar Čotric, Aleksandar Jugovic, Mirko Cikiriz and Zika Gojkovic submitted. The government has accepted this amendment. The Committee on Relations with Serbs outside Serbia has accepted the government's amendment and amendments to the MPs. Of 127 MPs, 108 voted in favour. The amendment has been accepted. On Article 17, the amendment was submitted by a group of 20 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Aleksandar Martinovic tabled an amendment proposing that a new article 17a be added after article 17. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Donka Banovic, Zoran Nikolic and Milica Vojic-Markovic together submitted the title above Articles 18 and 18 of the amendment. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The National MP Branimir Djokic submitted the title above article 18 and Article 18 of the amendment. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Relations with Serbs outside Serbia tabled an amendment to Article 18. The government has accepted this amendment. Of the 127 MPs, 121 voted yes. The amendment has been accepted. Members of the 18th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandar Chotric, Aleksandar Jugovic, Mirko Cikiriz and Zika Gojkovic. The government and the Committee on Relations with Serbs outside Serbia have accepted the amendment. Of 127 MPs, for 111. The amendment has been accepted. National MPs Aleksandar Cotric, Aleksandar Jugovic, Mirko Cikiriz and Zika Gojkovic together have submitted an amendment suggesting that the title and article 18a be added after article 18a. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Milorad Buha has tabled an amendment proposing that a new article 18a be added after article 18a. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Donka Banović, Zoran Nikolic, Milica Vojić-Marković and Željko Tomic put together the title above Articles 19 and 19 of the amendment. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The title above Articles 19 and 19 of the amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 19th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandar Chotric, Aleksandar Jugovic, Mirko Cikiriz and Zika Gojkovic. The government and the Committee on Relations with Serbs outside Serbia have accepted the amendment. Of 127 MPs, for 114. The amendment has been accepted. National MP Milan Skrbic has tabled an amendment proposing that a new member of 19a be added after article 19. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Donka Banović, Zoran Nikolic, Milica Vojic-Markovic and Zeljko Tomic together submitted the title above Articles 20 and 20 of the amendment. Of 127 MPs, for one. The amendment was not accepted. The title above Articles 20 and 20 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branimir Djokic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Milorad Buha submitted an amendment proposing that a new Article 20a be added after article 20a. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Donka Banović, Zoran Nikolic, Milica Vojic-Markovic and Zeljko Tomic together submitted the title above Articles 21 and 21 of the amendment. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The title above Articles 21 and 21 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branimir Djokic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Verica Radeta has tabled an amendment proposing that a new member of 21a be added after article 21. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Donka Banović, Zoran Nikolic, Milica Vojić-Markovic and Zeljko Tomic together submitted the title above Articles 22 and 22. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The title above Articles 22 and 22 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. On Article 22, the amendment was submitted by a group of 20 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Branimir Djokic submitted an amendment proposing that a new member of 22a be added after article 22a. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Donka Banović, Zoran Nikolic, Milica Vojic-Markovic and Zeljko Tomic together submitted the title above Articles 23rd and 23rd amendment. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The title above Article 23 and Article 23 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. I would like to make a statement about Mr. Maric's amendment. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 23rd amendment was submitted by a group of the 20-nation MPs of the "Forward Serbia" Group. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Milorad Buha has tabled an amendment proposing that a new member of 23a be added after article 23. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Donka Banović, Nikola Lazic, Milica Vojić-Marković and Željko Tomic together submitted the title above Articles 24 and 24 of the amendment. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. The article above Articles 24 and 24 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Žutic. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 24th Amendment was submitted by a group of 20 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" Group. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 24th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Zoran Antic. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Momcilo Duvnjak has tabled an amendment proposing that a new member of 24a be added after Article 24a. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Donka Banović, Nikola Lazic, Milica Vojić-Markovic and Željko Tomic together submitted the title above Articles 25 and 25 of the amendment. No one for, of 127 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 20 MPs from the Parliamentary Group "Forward Serbia" submitted the title above Articles 25 and 25 of the amendment. No one for, of 127 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. The title above Articles 25 and 25 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Verica Radet. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Mirko Munjic has tabled an amendment proposing that a new Article 25a be added after article 25a. No one for, of 127 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Donka Banovic, Nikola Lazic and Milica Vojic-Markovic together submitted the title above Articles 26 and 26 of the amendment. No one for, of 127 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. The title above article 26 and article 26 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 26th Amendment was submitted by a group of 20 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" Group. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 26th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Zoran Antic. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Aleksandar Martinovic tabled an amendment proposing that a new member of 26a be added after article 26. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 28th amendment was submitted by MP Branimir Djokic. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 29th Amendment was submitted by Aleksandra Jankovic. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 29th Amendment was submitted by the MEP, Ms Radet. No one has pleaded for the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. The 29th Amendment was submitted by a group of 20 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" Group. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 29th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandar Chotric, Aleksandar Jugovic, Mirko Cikiriz and Zika Gojkovic. The government and the Committee on Relations with Serbs outside Serbia have accepted the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. He voted 121 out of 126 MPs. The amendment has been accepted. The 29th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banovic, Zoran Nikolic and Milica Vojic-Markovic. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Donka Banovic, Zeljko Tomic and Milica Vojic-Markovic together submitted the 30th amendment. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 30th amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 32nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic, Nikola Lazic, Donka Banovic and Zoran Nikolic. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 32nd Amendment was submitted by a group of 20 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" Group. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Milica Vojić-Markovic, Nikola Lazic, Donka Banovic and Zoran Nikolic put together the title above Articles 33 and 33 of the amendment. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee for Relations with Serbs outside Serbia, submitted an amendment to a regular number in front of the Head – the Budget Fund for Diaspora and Serbs in the region. The government has accepted this amendment. Of the 126 MPs, 114 voted for this amendment. The amendment has been accepted. A group of 20 MPs of the Parliamentary Group "Forward Serbia" has submitted to the titled Head of the 34th Amendment. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. On behalf of Glava V above Article 34, the title above Article 34 and Article 34, was submitted by MP Nikola Žutić. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee for Relations with Serbs outside Serbia, submitted an amendment to Article 34. The government has accepted this amendment. Of the 127 MPs, 116 voted in favour of the amendment. The amendment has been accepted. Member of the 35th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. No one for, of 127 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 36th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. No one voted yes. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Donka Banovic, Nikola Lazic and Milica Vojic-Markovic together submitted the 37th amendment. Of the 127 MPs, one voted yes. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 37th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zeljko Tomic and Zoran Nikolic. No one voted yes. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 37th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. No one voted yes. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 37th Amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Duvnjak. No one voted yes. The amendment was not accepted. The 38th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Aleksandra Jankovic and MP Vjerica Radet. No one voted yes. The amendment was not accepted. The 39th amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Jankovic and MP Nikola Savic. No one voted yes. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Donka Banovic, Nikola Lazic and Milica Vojic-Markovic submitted together to the 39th amendment. No one voted yes. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 20 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group submitted to the 39th amendment. No one voted yes. The amendment was not accepted. MP Dejan Mirovic submitted to the 40th amendment. No one voted yes. The amendment was not accepted. The 41st amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Jankovic and MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. Of the 126 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. The 42nd amendment was submitted by Aleksandra Jankovic and MP Aleksandar Martinovic. No one voted yes. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 42nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zeljko Tomic and Zoran Nikolic. No one voted yes. The amendment was not accepted. The 42nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic-Markovic and Nikola Lazic. The government and the Committee on Relations with Serbs outside Serbia have accepted the amendment. Of the 126 MPs, 107 voted in favour. The amendment has been accepted. Member of the 42nd amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. No one voted yes. The amendment was not accepted. The 44th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Buh. Of the 126 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. The 45th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic-Markovic and Nikola Lazic. No one voted yes. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 45th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Zoran Antic. No one voted for 126 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put the draft law on diaspora and Serbs in the region in general. Of the 126 MPs, the law was declared 123. The National Assembly passed a draft law on diaspora and Serbs in the region. We move to the 10th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a decision on the election of members of the Council of the Republic of RepublicSTEPS AGENCY After the National Assembly has carried out a single search on the proposal for a decision, and before we move to a decision, I remind you that according to Article 105 paragraph 2 of Article 15 of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly on the selection of members of the Council of the Republic Postage Service Agency decides most of the votes of all MPs. There's 126 of us here, and we're moving on to a decision. I am putting to the vote the motion for a decision on the election of members of the Council of the Republic Postage Services Agency. Of the 127 MPs, 126 voted in favour. The National Assembly adopted a proposal for a decision to elect members of the Council of the Republic Postage Services Agency. We move on to the 11th item of the agenda: – The list of members of the council of the Republic of Slovenia has been called upon by the National Assembly to carry out a single search, and before we move to a decision, I remind you that according to Article 105 paragraph 2 of point 15) of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly decides by majority of the votes of all Members of Parliament to elect a member of the Council of the Republic of Broadcasting Agency. I also remind you that the associations of broadcasting public messages in the Republic of Serbia, journalists' associations in the Republic of Serbia, professional associations of film and drama artists in the Republic of Serbia and professional associations of composers in the Republic of Serbia have proposed two candidates, Gordan Suš and Milan Becejic, of whom only one is elected as a member of the Council of the Republic Broadcasting Agency. We're moving on to a decision. I am voting on a proposal to elect Gordan Suš as a member of the Council of the Republic Broadcasting Agency. Of the 128 MPs, 120 MPs voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly for the Council of the Republic Broadcasting Agency did not select the proposed candidate. I am voting on the proposal to elect Milan Becejic as a member of the Council of the Republic Broadcasting Agency. Of the 128 MPs, one voted for. I find that no other candidate, Milan Becejic, has been voted either. We move to the 12th point of the agenda: – SUPPOSED DECISION ON THE END OF THE JUDICATION After the National Assembly has carried out a search on the motions for decisions, we move to a decision. I put to the vote a motion for a decision to suspend the court's office, number 118-2049/09. Of the 128 MPs, 123 voted in favour. The National Assembly adopted a proposal for this decision. I put to the vote a motion for a decision to suspend the court's office, number 118-2065/09. Of the 128 MPs, 113 voted in favour. I find that this decision has been taken as well. I put to the vote a motion for a decision to suspend the court's office, number 118-2563/09. Of the 128 MPs, 114 voted in favour. I find that the motion for a decision to suspend the court's duty has been adopted. We move to the 13th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a selection of the elective member of the First Assembly of the High Council of the Judges since the National Assembly carried out a single search, and before we move on to the decision, I remind you that the National Assembly at the Third Session of the First Regular Session in 2009 on 30 March 2009 made a decision on the selection of members of the High Council of the judiciary. Since not all members of the first Supreme Council of the judiciary, including one member of the law firm, were then elected, the Serbian Bar Association has proposed to the National Assembly of one candidate for the election member of the first assembly of the High Council of Lawyers. I would also like to remind you that, under Article 105 paragraph 2 of point 15 of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly decides, by a majority of the votes of all MPs, to elect members of the Supreme Council of the judiciary. So we need 126 votes for this decision. I am putting on the vote by the Serbian Bar Association of Lawyers to elect Dejan Ciric, a lawyer from Nis, vice-president of Serbia's Bar Association as an election member. Of the 128 MPs, 127 were declared. The National Assembly was elected by Dejan Ciric, a lawyer from Nis, vice-president of Serbia's Bar Association, as an election member of the First Council of Justice. Let me congratulate Mr. Dejan Ciric on his choice and wish him success in his work. We move to the 14th item of the agenda: – Proposal for election of the elected member of the first assembly of the State's General Prosecutors since the National Assembly conducted a single search, and before we move on to the decision, I remind you that the National Assembly at the Third Session of the First Regular Session in 2009 on 30 March 2009 decided on the election of members of the State Council of Prosecutors. Since not all members of the first assembly of the State Council of Prosecutors, including one member of the law firm, were then elected, the Serbian Bar Association has proposed to the National Assembly of one candidate for the election member of the first assembly of the State Council of Prosecutors. I would also like to remind you that, under Article 105 paragraph 2 of point 15 of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly decides, by a majority of the votes of all MPs, to elect members of the State Council of Prosecutors. We're moving on to a decision. Please, I would like to put to the vote of the Serbian Bar Association of Lawyers to elect Miroslav Bojic, a lawyer from Cačka, a member of the Serbian Attorney General's Board. Of the 128 MPs, four voted for this proposal. I find that we have not chosen Mr Miroslav Bojic. We move to the 15th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a DECISION ON THE DEFINITIONS OF THE DECISION OF THE MEMBER STATE OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA After the National Assembly has carried out a search on the proposal for a decision, we move to a decision. I am voting on the Proposal for a decision to supplement the Decision on the selection of members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, No 02-2158/09. Of the 128 MPs, 125 voted in favour. I agree that we have adopted a proposal for a decision to supplement the Decision on the selection of members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. We move to the 16th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on the Military Security Agency and the Military Intelligence Agency After the National Assembly has conducted a search of the Bill in principle and details, we move to a decision. I'm voting on the draft law on the Military Security Agency and the Military Intelligence Agency, in principle. Of the 128 MPs, 121 came out. The National Assembly accepted the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Alexander Martinovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Of the 127 MPs, no one has pleaded for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 6th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Bozidar Delic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 6th Amendment, with correction, was jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Šormaz, Jovan Palalic, Milos Aligrudic, Miroslav Petkovic and Zoran Nikolic. No one for, of 127 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 6th amendment was submitted by MP Mico Rogovic. No one for, of 127 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 6th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. No one for, of 127 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. No one for, of 127 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. No one for, of 127 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Ljubisa Petkovic. No one for, of 127 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Ambassador Veroljub Arsic submitted to the 6th amendment. No one for, of 127 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. The 7th amendment was submitted by Aleksandar Martinovic. The government has accepted the amendment. Of the 127 MPs, 111 voted in favour. The amendment has been accepted. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Bozidar Delic. One for, of 127 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by Dragan Šormaz, Jovan Palalic, Milos Aligrudic, Miroslav Petkovic and Zoran Nikolic. No one for, of 127 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by Dragan Šormaz, Jovan Palalic, Milos Aligrudic, Miroslav Petkovic and Zoran Nikolic. No one for, of 127 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 11th Amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. The government has accepted the amendment. Of the 127 MPs, 104 voted in favour. The amendment has been accepted. The 11th amendment was submitted by Miroslav Markicevic. Of the 127 MPs, 104 voted in favour. The amendment has been accepted. Member of the 12th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Stefan Zankov. Nobody for it. The amendment has been accepted. Member of the 12th amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Nobody for it. The amendment has been accepted. Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Bozidar Delic. Of the 127 MPs, 104 voted in favour. The amendment has been accepted. Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment has been accepted. Member of the 14th amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. No one for, of 127 MPs. The amendment has been accepted. Member of the 14th amendment was submitted by Ambassador Zoran Antic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment has been accepted. The 14th Amendment was jointly submitted by Dragan Šormaz, Jovan Palalic, Milos Aligrudic, Miroslav Petkovic and Zoran Nikolic. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 15th amendment was submitted by Ambassador Zoran Babic. No one for, of 127 MPs. The amendment has been accepted. Member of the 16th amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Batic. The government has accepted the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Of the 127 MPs, 100 voted in favour of the amendment. The amendment has been accepted. The 17th amendment was submitted by Sasa Maksimovic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was submitted by Ambassador Otto Kishmarton. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 19th amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 19th Amendment was jointly submitted by Miroslav Petkovic, Dragan Šormaz, Zoran Nikolic, Jovan Palalic and Milos Aligrudic. No one for, of 127 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 21st amendment. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 22nd amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Batic. The government has accepted the amendment. Of the 127 MPs, 98 voted in favour. The amendment has been accepted. An MP named Milet Poscurica submitted to the 22nd amendment. No one for, of 127 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Ljubisa Petkovic. No one for, of 127 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. The 23rd amendment was jointly submitted by Dragan Šormaz, Miroslav Petkovic, Zoran Nikolic, Jovan Palalic and Milos Aligrudic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Alexander Martinovic submitted to Article 24 of the amendment. No one for, of 127 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 25th Amendment was submitted by MP Ljubisa Petkovic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 27th amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. No one for, of 127 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. The 27th amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Batic. No one for, of 127 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 29th amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Batic. The government has accepted the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Of the 128 MPs, 93 voted in favour. The amendment has been accepted. Member of the 31st Amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. No one for, of 128 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Jelena Budimirovic submitted to the 34th amendment. No one for, of 128 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Ambassador Milan Avramovic submitted to the 34th amendment. No one for, of 128 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Parliamentarians Cedomir Jovanovic, Nenad Milic, Zoran Ostojić, Vesna Pesic, Ivan Andric and Kenan Hajdarevic submitted together to the 34th amendment. No one for, of 128 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. I'd just like to let you know that we have about five to ten minutes to vote. The voting time will be over in five to ten minutes and then we will begin the session I scheduled in 1400 hours. The 34th Amendment was jointly submitted by Dragan Šormaz, Jovan Palalic, Milos Aligrudic, Miroslav Petkovic and Zoran Nikolic. No one for, of 128 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 35th amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Batic. The government has accepted the amendment. Of the 128 MPs, 94 voted in favour of this amendment. The amendment has been accepted. Member of the 36th amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. The government has accepted the amendment. Of the 128 MPs, 105 voted in favour of the amendment. The amendment has been accepted. Member of the 37th amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. No one for, of 128 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. The 38th Amendment was submitted by Aleksandar Martinovic. The government has accepted the amendment. Of the 128 MPs, 96 voted in favour of the amendment. The amendment has been accepted. Member of the 38th amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Batic. The government has accepted this amendment. Of the 128 MPs, 88 voted in favour of the amendment. The amendment has been accepted. Member of the 42nd amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Nobody for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 45th amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Batic. Of 128 MPs, one for. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 47th amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. No one for, of 128 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 48th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. No one for, of 128 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Alexander Martinovic submitted to Article 49 of the amendment. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Ambassador Milan Knezevic submitted to the 50th amendment. No one for, of 128 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 54th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Shormaz, Milos Aligrudic and Miroslav Petkovic. The government has accepted this amendment. Of 128 MPs, 101 for. The amendment has been accepted. Ambassador Veroljub Arsic submitted to the 54th amendment. No one for, of 128 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. The 54th amendment was submitted by Miroslav Markicevic. No one for, of 128 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. The 54th amendment was submitted by Ambassador Bozidar Delic. No one for, of 128 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 54th amendment was submitted by MP Mico Rogovic. No one for, of 128 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Ambassador Bozidar Delic submitted to the 55th amendment. No one for, of 128 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. The 55th amendment was submitted by Miroslav Markicevic. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 63rd amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Batic. The government has accepted the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Of the 128 MPs, 95 voted in favour. The amendment has been accepted. Member of the 63rd amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. This is the last amendment. No one for, of 128 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I'm putting the draft law on the Military Security Agency and the Military Intelligence Agency in general. Of the 128 MPs, the bill was voted on by 125, and I find that the National Assembly passed the draft law on the Military Security Agency and the Military Intelligence Agency. We move to the 17th point of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on the Regulation on the Obligation of the Republic of Serbia under the Inter-International Monetary Fund under the basis of the funds for the Allocation of Special Rights of the Wolfes approved by the Board of Governors No. 64-3 AND BR. 52-4 Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law governing the obligations of the Republic of Serbia towards the International Monetary Fund on the basis of the use of means of allocation of special rights to draw the approved resolutions of the Board of Governors No. 64-3 and no. 52-4, in principle. The decision requires 126 votes. Of the 128 MPs, 126 voted in favour. The National Assembly accepted the bill in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. I'd like to remind you that it's article 7. The bill envisions that the law enters into force the next day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". According to Article 196(4), paragraph 4 is replaced by the following: The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, laws and other acts shall enter into force on the eighth day from the day of its publication and may enter into force early only if there are particularly justified reasons for this when adopted. In light of the bill's proposal, the government cited reasons for the law to enter into force the next day since the day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". I am voting to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to come into force earlier than the eighth day of the day of publication. Of the 127 MPs, all 127 were declared. The National Assembly has decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within a shorter period than the eighth day of publication. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law governing the obligations of the Republic of Serbia towards the International Monetary Fund on the basis of the use of means of allocation of special rights to draw the approved resolutions of the Board of Governors No. 64-3 and no. 52-4, in general. Of the 127 MPs, 126 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly adopted the draft law on the regulation of the obligations of the Republic of Serbia towards the International Monetary Fund on the basis of the use of means of allocating the special rights of withdrawal approved by the Committee of Governors No. 64-3 and no. 52-4. We move to a decision on the injuries of the Rules of Procedure to which MPs pointed during the session. Since the session shows violations of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I remind you of the provision of Articles 100, 6 and 10. The Rules of Procedure under which, even after the explanation of the President of the National Assembly, the MP considers that the infringement has been committed, the National Assembly will, without delay, declare itself in the day of the vote. According to this regulation of the Rules of Procedure, we move on to a decision. National MP Milos Aligrudic, at a session on 7 October 2009, at 11 o'clock and 18 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 100. Rules of Procedure. I ask the Members of Parliament to declare whether the said member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Of the 133 MPs, three were declared. The National Assembly decided that no injured member of the Rules of Procedure had been injured. National MP Milos Aligrudic, at a session on 16 October 2009, at 12 hours and 40 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 27. Rules of Procedure. I ask the Members of Parliament to declare whether the said member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Of the 137 MPs, 6. The National Assembly decided that no injured member of the Rules of Procedure had been injured. National MP Aleksandar Martinovic, at a session on 21 October 2009, at 14 hours and 50 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 195. Rules of Procedure. I ask the Members of Parliament to declare whether the said member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Of the 139 MPs, no one has pleaded for it. The National Assembly decided that no injured member of the Rules of Procedure had been injured. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination of all points of the agenda of this session and decision on them, pursuant to Article 99. Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude the First Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009. (The session ends at 14.10 p.m. )
