ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-21-0.u34385	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Sixth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 160 MPs. I remind you, Article 86 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provide that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly in voting days exists if at least 126 MPs are present at the meeting of the National Assembly. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. The application of the electronic voting system has shown that 127 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that more than 126 MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings were prevented from being attended by the MPs: Milica Radovic and Dragan Šormaz. Since the National Assembly has completed a search on all points of the agenda, we move on to a decision. We move to the 1st item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2010. One year, with the proposals for a decision to give consent to the financial plans for 2010. YEAR: (a) the Republic of the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Fund, (b) the Republic Health Insurance Institute, (v) the National Employment Services. Before we move to a decision on the draft law on the 2010 budget of the Republic of Serbia, I remind you that, on the basis of Article 105 paragraph 2.8 of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly adopts the budget by a majority of the votes of all MPs. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I am voting on the draft law on the 2010 budget of the Republic of Serbia, in principle. Of the 131 MPs, 127 for, four against. The National Assembly accepted the bill, in principle. Since the National Assembly accepted the draft law in principle and before moving to a decision on amendments, I remind you that MP Stefan Zankov, in writing, withdrew the amendment to Section 23. It's a bill of law. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. A group of 21 MPs from the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the 1st amendment. Of the 131 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Parliamentarians Milan Dimitrijevic and Zeljko Tomic submitted together to the 1st amendment. Of the 131 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Popovic. Of the 131 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Of the 131 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Donka Banovic. Of the 131 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by Ambassador Nikola Lazic. Of the 131 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Of the 131 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 1st amendment. Of the 131 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Krstin. Of the 131 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the 1st amendment. Of the 131 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Lidija Dimitrijevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Of the 131 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Popovic. The government and the Finance Committee have accepted the amendment. Of 131 MPs, 126 for. The amendment has been accepted. On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Antic. Of the 131 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Popovic. Of the 131 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by Ambassador Zoran Mašić. Of the 131 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The Government has submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. The Finance Committee has accepted the amendment. We declare an amendment to the government. Of the 131 MPs, 126 voted for this amendment. The amendment has been accepted. The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Velimir Ilic, Miroslav Markicevic and Srdjan Spasojevic. Of the 131 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Ambassador Milan Dimitrijevic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Of the 131 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. An MP, Milet Poscuric, submitted to the 3rd amendment. Of the 131 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 5th amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Popovic. Of the 131 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Popovic and Zeljko Tomic. Of the 131 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Ambassador Dobrislav Prelic submitted to the 6th amendment. Of the 131 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 6th Amendment was submitted by Aleksandar Martinovic. Of the 131 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by Parliamentarians Lasslo Varga, Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac and Arpad Fremond. Of the 131 MPs, 12 voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. The First Amendment was submitted to Article 7 of the amendment by the National MP Elena Christmas-Talian. Of the 131 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Shormaz to article 7 of the 1st, 3, 9th and 17th. Of the 131 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Milan Avramović submitted to Article 7 of the 1st Amendment. Of the 131 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 7th Amendment was submitted by the MEP, Ms Radet. Of the 130 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 7th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marko Milenkovic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Ljubisa Petkovic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Ambassador Veroljub Arsic submitted to the 7th amendment. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 7th amendment was submitted by MP Vlad Milojkovic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric and Aleksandra Ilic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 7th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Zoran Antic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 7th amendment was submitted by MP Jelena Budimirovic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 7th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Ognjen Mihajlovic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Mladenovic. We declare Mr. Mladenov's amendment. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Igor Becic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Vuceta Toskovic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Milos Radulovic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Judita Popovic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 7th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Stefan Zankov. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 7th amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Ljiljana Miladanovic submitted to the 7th amendment. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 7th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Acimovic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Radica Jocic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Vukicevic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 7th amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 7th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Momcilo Duvnjak. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Srboljub Zivanovic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Žutic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 7th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Kenan Hajdarevic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Nenad Konstantinovic submitted to the 7th amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have accepted the amendment. Of the 129 MPs, 127 voted yes. The amendment has been accepted. Member of the 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Maras. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Donka Banovic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 7th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marina Ragush. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Milovan Radovanovic submitted to the 7th amendment. Of the 130 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 7th amendment was submitted by MP Mico Rogovic. Of the 130 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Ljubenovic. Of the 130 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 7th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Vesna Maric. Of the 130 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 7th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Suleyman Spaho. Of the 130 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic. Of the 130 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 7th amendment was submitted by Miroslav Markicevic. Of the 130 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Lidija Dimitrijevic submitted to the 7th amendment. Of the 130 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Of the 130 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 7th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Alexander Pejcic. Of the 130 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 7th amendment was submitted by MP Arsen Djuric. Of the 130 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 7th Amendment was submitted by Milica Vojic-Markovic. Of the 130 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Milan Škrbic. Of the 130 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Milivojevic. The government and the Finance Committee have accepted the amendment. Of the 130 MPs, 127 is in favour. The amendment has been accepted. Member of the 7th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Bozidar Delic. Of the 130 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 7th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Otto Kishmarton. Of the 130 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 7th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Krstin. Of the 130 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 7th amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Batic. Of 130 MPs, one for. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. Of the 130 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 7th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Zoran Mašić. Of the 130 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Dobrislav Prelic. Of the 130 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 7th amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. Of the 131 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 7th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marina Toman. Of the 131 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 7th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Buh. Of the 131 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 7th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Jadranko Vukovic. Of the 131 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 7th Amendment was submitted by Jorgenka Tabaković. Of the 131 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 7th amendment was submitted by MP Natasa Jovanovic. Of the 131 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 7th amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Popovic. Of the 131 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 7th amendment was submitted by Aleksandar Martinovic. Of the 130 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Milan Veselinović. Of the 130 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 7th amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milan Nikolic. Of the 130 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Radoslav Mojsilovic. Of the 130 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Shami. Of the 130 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 7th amendment was submitted by MP Sasa Dujovic. Of 130 MPs, 8 for. The amendment was not accepted. Vladimir Milentijevic submitted to the 7th amendment. Of the 131 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. An MP named Milet Poscurica submitted to the 7th amendment. Of the 131 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 7th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Of the 130 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 7th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Popovic. Of the 130 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. An MP named Milan Knezevic submitted to the 7th amendment. Of the 130 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 7th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Dragan Zivkov. Of the 130 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 7th Amendment was submitted by Svetlana Stojanović. Of the 130 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 7th Amendment, with correction, was jointly submitted by the MPs Lasslo Varga, Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac, Arpad Fremond, Esad Djudjevic, Bajram Omeragic and Riza Halimi. The government and the Finance Committee accepted the amendment, with a correction. Of the 130 MPs, for 127. The amendment has been accepted. Member of the 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Momo Colaković. Of the 130 MPs, for 10. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Branimir Djokic. Of the 130 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Janko Veselinović. The government and the Finance Committee have accepted the amendment. Of 131 MPs, 127 for. The amendment has been accepted. Ambassador Ljubomir Kragovic submitted to the 7th amendment. Of the 131 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Vukovic. Of the 131 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Of the 131 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 7th amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. Of the 131 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 7th amendment was submitted by MP Sasa Maksimovic. Of the 131 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 7th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Colic. Of the 131 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Gojko Radic. Of the 131 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 7th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Zeljko Tomic. Of the 131 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Babic. Of the 131 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 7th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Of the 131 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 7th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Nikola Lazic. Of the 131 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. A member of the 7th amendment was submitted by MP Dušanka Plecevic. Of the 131 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 7th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Pai Momchilov. Of the 131 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Paunović-Milosavljevic. Of the 131 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 7th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milan Dimitrijevic. Of the 131 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 7th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Nikola Savic. Of the 131 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Goran Mihajlovic. Of the 131 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 7th amendment was submitted by Ambassador Sladjan Mijaljevic. Of the 131 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Buh. Of the 131 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 8th amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. Of the 131 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Popovic. Of the 131 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by the MEP, Ms Radet. Of the 131 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Mladenovic. Of the 130 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Miroslav Petkovic. Of the 130 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 8th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Of the 130 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric and Miroslav Markicevic. Of the 130 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. The 9th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Škrbic. Of the 130 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Dragan Zivkov. Of the 131 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milutin Jelic, Radoslav Mojsilović and Aleksandra Jankovic. Of the 131 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. Lidija Dimitrijevic submitted to the 10th amendment. Of the 131 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 10th amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. Of the 131 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 10th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Of the 131 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. The 10th Amendment in the same text was submitted jointly by MPs Zlata Djeric, Miroslav Markicevic and Aleksandra Ilic, MP Nenad Popovic and joint MPs Jorvanka Tabaković, Zoran Antic and Veroljub Arsic. Of the 131 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. The 10th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Buh. Of the 131 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 11th amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. Of the 131 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. The 12th amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Palalic and MP Nenad Popovic. Of the 131 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 12th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Škrbic. Of the 131 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Miroslav Markicevic, Srdjan Spasojevic and Zlata Djeric. Of the 131 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Popovic. Of the 131 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Zoran Shami. Of the 131 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric and Miroslav Markicevic. Of the 131 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Todorovic. Of the 131 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 13th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Buh. Of the 131 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 13th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jorvanka Tabakovic, Zoran Antic and Veroljub Arsic. Of the 131 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 14th amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Popovic. The government and the Finance Committee have adopted this amendment. Of the 131 MPs, 126 voted in favour of the amendment. The amendment has been accepted. Members of the 14th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic-Markovic. Of the 131 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 14th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Jorvanka Tabakovic, Zoran Antić and Veroljub Arsic. Of the 131 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 14th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Buh. Of the 131 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 15th Amendment, in the same text, was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric and Miroslav Markicevic, MP Aleksandar Martinovic and MP Milica Vojic-Markovic. Of the 131 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Alexander Martinovic submitted to the 16th amendment. Of the 131 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 16th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Of the 131 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 16th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Dragan Zivkov. Of the 131 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 16th amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have adopted this amendment. Of 131 MPs, 126 for. The amendment has been accepted. Member of the 17th Amendment was submitted by the MEP, Ms Radet. Of the 131 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 17th amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Popovic. The government and the Finance Committee have adopted this amendment. Of 131 MPs, 126 for. The amendment has been accepted. Member of the 18th amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Of the 131 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 18th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Zoran Shami. Of the 131 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 19th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Jorvanka Tabakovic, Zoran Antić and Veroljub Arsic. Of the 131 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 19th amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Popovic. The government and the Finance Committee have adopted this amendment. Gentlemen, please, we plead, the vote takes place. Of 131 MPs, 127 for. The amendment has been accepted. Member of the 19th amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Of the 131 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric and Miroslav Markicevic. Of the 131 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Lidija Dimitrijevic submitted to the 20th amendment. Of the 131 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 21st Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic and Miroslav Petkovic. Of the 131 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 22nd amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Popovic. Of the 131 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Milovan Radovanovic submitted to the 22nd amendment. Of the 131 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 22nd amendment was submitted by MP Natasa Jovanovic. Of the 131 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 22nd amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Of the 131 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Parliamentarians Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Nikola Lazic and Milan Dimitrijevic submitted the 22nd amendment together. Of the 131 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 22nd amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Of the 131 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 22nd amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Of the 131 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 22nd amendment was submitted by Ambassador Nikola Savic. Of the 131 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Popovic. Of the 131 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 23rd amendment was submitted by Ambassador Nikola Savic. Of the 131 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Parliamentarians Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Nikola Lazic and Milan Dimitrijevic submitted the 23rd amendment together. Of the 131 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. Of the 131 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 23rd amendment was submitted by Ambassador Sladjan Mijaljevic. Of the 131 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 23rd amendment was submitted by Ambassador Dobrislav Prelic. Of the 131 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 24th amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Popovic. Of the 131 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 24th amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. Of the 131 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 25th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Zoran Shami. Of the 131 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 25th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Momcilo Duvnjak. Of the 131 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 25th amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Popovic. Of the 131 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. On Article 26 of the amendment, in the same text, the amendment was submitted by MPs: Zlata Đeric and Miroslav Markicevic, then MP Milorad Buha, MP Nenad Popovic, MP Milos Radulović and joint MPs Jorvanka Tabaković, Zoran Antic and Veroljub Arsic. Of the 131 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 28th amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Popovic. Of the 131 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 28th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Krstin. The government and the Finance Committee have accepted the amendment. Of 131 MPs, 126 for. The amendment has been accepted. The 29th amendment was submitted by Aleksandar Martinovic. Of the 131 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 30th amendment was submitted by MP Natasa Jovanovic. Of the 131 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 30th amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Popovic. Of the 131 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Lidija Dimitrijevic submitted to the 31st Amendment. Of the 131 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 32nd Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Nenad Popovic and joint MPs: Jorvanka Tabaković, Zoran Antic and Veroljub Arsic. Of the 131 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 32nd amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Batic. Of the 131 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 32nd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Of the 131 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 32nd Amendment was submitted by the Ambassador of the Faith of Radet. Of the 131 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Krstin. Of the 131 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 33rd amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Popovic. Of the 131 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 34th Amendment were submitted by MPs Petar Jojic and MP Nenad Popovic. Of the 131 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic-Markovic and Nikola Lazic submitted together to the 34th amendment. Of the 131 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 34th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Nikola Savic. Of the 131 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 34th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Todorovic. Of the 131 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 35th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Zoran Nikolic. Of the 131 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Nenad Popovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Milica Vojic-Markovic submitted together to the 35th amendment. Of the 131 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 35th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Todorovic. Of the 131 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Donka Banovic and Nikola Lazic submitted together to the 35th amendment. Of the 131 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Donka Banovic and Milan Dimitrijevic submitted together to the 36th amendment. Of the 131 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 36th amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Popovic. Of the 131 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 36th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Skrbic. Of the 131 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 36th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic and Nikola Lazic. Of the 131 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 37th amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Popovic. The government and the Finance Committee have accepted the amendment. Of 131 MPs, 127 for. The amendment has been accepted. Member of the 38th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Acimovic. Of the 131 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 38th amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Popovic. The government and the Finance Committee have accepted the amendment. Of 132 MPs, 126 for. The amendment has been accepted. Member of the 39th amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Batic. The government and the Finance Committee have accepted the amendment. Of 132 MPs, 127 for. The amendment was not accepted. Ambassador Vladan Batic submitted to the 40th amendment. Of the 131 MPs, two voted yes. The amendment was not accepted. The 41st Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Radojko Obradovic and MP Milorad Buha. Of the 131 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 42nd amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marko Milenkovic. Of 132 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 43rd amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Of the 131 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 43rd amendment was submitted by Ambassador Zoran Nikolic. Of the 131 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 44th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Popovic. Of the 131 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Ambassador Mirko Munjic submitted to the 44th amendment. Of the 131 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 45th Amendment was submitted by Aleksandar Martinovic. Of the 131 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 47th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Acimovic. Of the 131 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 48th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Dragan Zivkov. Of the 131 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 48th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Jorvanka Tabakovic, Zoran Antić and Veroljub Arsic. Of 132 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 49th amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Of 133 MPs, one for. The amendment was not accepted. Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I remind you it's Article 49. The bill envisions that the law enters into force the next day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia". According to Article 196(4), paragraph 4 is replaced by the following: The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the laws and other acts shall enter into force on the eighth day following the day of its publication and may enter into force early only if there are particularly justified reasons set out in their adoption. In the light of the draft law, the Government stated that the particularly justified reasons for the early entry into force of this law consisted in the need to ensure the smooth functioning and financing of state bodies and organisations. Therefore, in order to ensure the financing, exercise of the rights and duties of the Republic established by the Constitution and the law, it is necessary to allow for the smooth execution of expenditure, given that the fiscal year begins on 1 January 2010. In the event of the law being passed on 31 December 2009, the regular dynamics of the execution of the expenditure of the Republic would be questioned, thereby the exercise of the functions and competences of the Republic. The financing of pensions, social contributions and the provision of salaries in public services and public authorities would be particularly threatened, i.e. as of 1 January 2010, when the budget year begins under the Budgetary System Act. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. Of the 143 MPs, 127 voted in favour of the proposal. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of its publication. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided on the deadline, and also, honourable MPs, has adopted several amendments to the text of the draft law, some of which require technical harmonisation of certain provisions of the bill with the amendments adopted. Namely, pursuant to Article 5. Budgetary system law, budget revenue and income must be balanced with budgetary expenditures and expenditure. Some of the amendments have made changes in the part of the budget governing expenditure and expenditure, which has not been followed by appropriate technical harmonisation of the provisions governing revenue and budget receipts. In view of that, I suggest that the National Assembly's service, before the publication of the law, in co-operation with the appropriate government service, carry out this technical harmonisation of the text of the law with the amendments adopted. I am putting this motion to the vote and I am asking the Members of Parliament to plead with him. Of the 143 MPs, 126 voted for this proposal. The National Assembly accepted the proposal. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I am voting on the draft law on the 2010 budget of the Republic of Serbia, in general. For 127, of 144 MPs. The National Assembly adopted a draft law on the 2010 budget of the Republic of Serbia. Since we're... Please, we're not done, wait. Since we adopted the 2010 Bill on the budget of the Republic of Serbia, we are moving to a decision on the proposals for decisions that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia gives agreement to fund the 2010 plans – the Republic Fund for Pension and Disabilities Insurance, the Republic Institute for Health Insurance and the National Employment Service. I am putting the motion for a decision to give consent to the financial plan of the Republic Pension and Disabilities Insurance Fund for 2010. Of the 131 MPs, 131 voted in favour. The National Assembly adopted a proposal for a decision to give its consent to the Financial Plan of the Republic Pension and Disabilities Insurance Fund for 2010. I am putting on the vote of the Proposed Decision on granting consent to the financial plan of the Republic Health Insurance Institute for 2010. Please make your point. Of the 131 MPs, 129 voted in favour of the proposal. The National Assembly adopted a proposal for a decision to give its consent to the financial plan of the Republic Fund of the Health Insurance Institute for 2010. I am putting to the vote the draft decision on granting consent to the 2010 National Employment Service's financial plan. Of the 131 MPs, all 131 voted in favour. The National Assembly adopted a proposal for a decision to give its consent to the National Employment Service financial plan for 2010. We move to item 2 of the agenda: – Proposal for a LAW ON SURVEILLANCE OF THE PENSION AND INVALID SURVEILLANCE As the National Assembly has carried out a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law supplementing the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act in principle. Of the 130 MPs, all 130 voted in favour of the bill. The National Assembly accepted the bill in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. The names of the amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Bozidar Delic, Mico Rogovic and Zoran Antic. Of the 130 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 1st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Cedomir Jovanovic, Zoran Ostojic, Ivan Andric, Nebojsa Rangelović and Slobodan Maras. Of the 130 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The First Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic and Milan Dimitrijevic. Of the 130 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The new member 1a was proposed by MPs Donka Banovic and Nikola Lazic together. Of the 130 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 1st amendment. Of the 130 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Cedomir Jovanovic, Zoran Ostojić, Ivan Andric, Nebojsa Rangelovic and Kenan Hajdarevic together submitted an amendment to Article 2. Of the 130 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law supplementing the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act in general. Of the 130 MPs, 128 voted in favour. The National Assembly adopted the draft law supplementing the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of the Law on Financial Support to the Family with DECOM Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the Bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I'm putting the bill to the vote in principle. Of the 130 MPs, 128 voted in favour. The National Assembly accepted the bill in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Lidija Dimitrijevic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Of the 130 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic, Nikola Lazic and Aleksandar Pejcic. Of the 130 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 3rd Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Mico Rogovic and Zoran Antic and MP Milisav Petronijevic. Of the 130 MPs, 8 voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted on Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. Of the 130 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 5th amendment, with the correction, in the same text, was brought together by MPs Mico Rogovic and Zoran Antic and MP Milisav Petronijevic. Of the 130 MPs, 11 voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. Parliamentarians Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic submitted the 5th amendment together. Of 130 MPs, one for. The amendment was not accepted. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Antic. Of the 130 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic, Nikola Lazic and Aleksandar Pejcic submitted the 6th amendment together. Of the 130 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 6th amendment was submitted by MP Mico Rogovic. Of the 130 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Radica Jocic. Of the 130 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 7th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Lidija Dimitrijevic and, with correction, together by MPs Mico Rogovic and Zoran Antic. Of the 130 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic, Nikola Lazic and Aleksandar Pejcic. Of the 130 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic, Nikola Lazic and Aleksandar Pejcic submitted the 10th amendment together. Of the 130 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic, Nikola Lazic and Aleksandar Pejcic. Of the 130 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put the draft law amending and supplementing the Financial Support Act to the family with children, in general. Of the 130 MPs, 130 are in favour. The National Assembly passed a bill amending and supplementing the Law on financial support for the family with children. We move to the 4th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and SUPPLIES OF THE LAW ON THE PRESERVING OF ACTIONARY SOCIATIONS Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the Bills in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Act on the takeover of stock companies, in principle. Of the 130 MPs, 128 are in favour. The National Assembly accepted the bill in principle. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. Members of the 3rd Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Bozidar Delic, Mico Rogovic and Zoran Antić and joint MPs Jorgenka Tabaković and Stefan Zankov. Of 130 MPs, one for. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 4th Amendment were jointly submitted by the MPs Jorgenka Tabakovic and Stefan Zankov. Of the 130 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 5th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted jointly by MP Mirko Munjic and MPs Jorvanka Tabakovic and Stefan Zankov. Of the 130 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. I remind you it's Article 5. The bill provides for this law to enter into force the next day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". According to Article 196(4), paragraph 4 is replaced by the following: The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the laws and other general acts shall enter into force on the eighth day following the day of its publication and may enter into force earlier only if there are particularly justified reasons for this, established at the time of their adoption. In the light of the bill's proposal, the Government stated that the particularly justified reasons for the early entry into force of this law, in accordance with Article 196(4). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia consists in the need to come into force as soon as possible, in order to avoid significant negative consequences, which would be reflected, above all, in the inability to quickly realise negotiations with international investors that are under way, which include the availability of actions owned by the Republic of Serbia, which would all reflect the deepening of the crisis on the financial market, as well as the economy in general. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. Of the 130 MPs, 129 voted in favour. The National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of its publication. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Act on the takeover of stock companies, in general. Of the 130 MPs, 128 voted in favour. The National Assembly adopted the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the takeover of stock companies. We move to the 5th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of Public Debt Laws After the National Assembly has conducted a search of the Bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Public Debt Act, in principle. Of the 130 MPs, 128 are in favour. The National Assembly accepted the bill in principle. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Of the 130 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 3rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Mico Rogovic and Zoran Antic. Of the 130 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Public Debt Act, in general. Of the 130 MPs, 129 are in favour. The National Assembly adopted the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Debt. We move to the 6th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law amending the Security Act since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the Bill's proposal in principle and in particular we move to a decision. I'm putting in motion a bill amending the Insurance Act, in principle. Of the 130 MPs, for 127. The National Assembly accepted the bill in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Members of the 1st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Bozidar Delic, Mico Rogovic and Zoran Antic. Of 130 MPs, one for. The amendment was not accepted. Milovanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Of the 130 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. I'd like to remind you that it's Article 2. The bill envisions that the law enters into force the next day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia". According to Article 196(4), paragraph 4 is replaced by the following: The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the law and other general acts shall enter into force on the eighth day following the day of its publication and may enter into force earlier only if there are particularly justified reasons for this when they are adopted. In the light of the proposal for a law, the Government cited particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force before the eighth day of its publication, consisting of the existence of a deadline set out in Article 234. The Insurance Act expires on 31 December 2009, and the entry into force of the Act amending the Insurance Act the following day from the date of publication in the "Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia", i.e. until 31 December 2009, prevents the possible non-compliance of the legal deadlines, which makes for particularly justified reasons, within the meaning of Article 196(4). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, for early entry into force of the law. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. Of the 130 MPs, for 128. The National Assembly has determined that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I'm putting the draft law amending the Insurance Act, as a whole. Of the 130 MPs, 129 voted in favour. The National Assembly passed a bill amending the Insurance Act. We move on to the 7th point of the agenda: – Proposal for a LAW on Confirmation of the Loan Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (Second PROGRAMME FOR THE Development OF PRIVATE AND FINANCIAL SECTOR) Since the National Assembly has carried out a single search and the transition to decision-making, I remind you that, on the basis of Article 105 paragraph 6. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly, decides on laws governing the conclusion and validation of international contracts, mostly votes by all MPs. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the loan agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the IBRD (Other programme loan for the development of the private and financial sector), in principle. Of the 130 MPs, 129 voted in favour. Most of the votes of all MPs were accepted by the National Assembly by the draft law in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendment. The Government has submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. I remind you that by amending the Government to Article 3. The bill provides for this law to enter into force the next day from the day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia". According to Article 196(4), paragraph 4 is replaced by the following: The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and other acts shall enter into force on the eighth day from the day of its publication and may enter into force only if there are particularly justified reasons for this, as established at the time of their adoption. In the light of the amendment to Article 3. The draft law, the government said that the early entry into force of that law is necessary for reasons stemming from the fact that funding of the budget and the maintenance of liquidity is necessary for funds to be withdrawn by the end of 2009. In view of the above, I note that by deciding on the amendment, the National Assembly will at the same time determine whether there are particularly reasonable reasons for the early entry into force of this law. The Finance Committee has accepted the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Of the 130 MPs, for 129. The National Assembly adopted the amendment by a majority of the votes of all MPs and thus established that there are particularly justified reasons for the early entry into force of this law by the Constitution of the set deadline. After we have completed our decision on the amendment, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the loan agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (Other programme loan for the development of the private and financial sector), in general. Of the 130 MPs, 130 voted in favour. The National Assembly passed a bill confirming the loan agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (Second Programme for the Development of the Private and Financial Sector) with the majority of votes from all MPs. We are moving to the 8th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a LAW ON APPROVAL OF THE BOOK OF THE SERBIA AND THE INTERNATIONAL BOOK FOR REFERENCE AND Development (PROGRAMME FUND FOR THE RURAL Development OF PUBLIC FUNDS) As the National Assembly has carried out a single search, and before the transition to decision-making, I remind you that, on the basis of Article 105(6) of Article 10(5) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly, decides on laws governing the conclusion and validation of international contracts, mostly votes by all MPs. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the loan agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (Programme loan for the development of public finances), in principle. Of the 130 MPs, for 130. Most of the votes of all MPs were accepted by the National Assembly by the draft law in principle. We move to a decision on the amendment, which the government has made. The Government has submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. I remind you that by amending the Government to Article 3. The bill provides for this law to enter into force the next day from the day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia". According to Article 196(4), paragraph 4 is replaced by the following: The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and other acts shall enter into force on the eighth day from the day of its publication and may enter into force early only if there are particularly justified reasons for this, as established at the time of their adoption. In the light of the amendment to Article 3. The draft law, the government said that the early entry into force of that law is necessary for reasons stemming from the fact that funding of the budget and the maintenance of liquidity is necessary for funds to be withdrawn by the end of 2009. In view of the above, I note that by deciding on the amendment of the Government, the National Assembly will at the same time determine whether there are particularly reasonable reasons for the early entry into force of this law. The Finance Committee has accepted the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Of the 130 MPs, 129 voted in favour. The National Assembly adopted this amendment by a majority of the votes of all MPs and thus established that there are particularly justified reasons for the early entry into force of this law by the Constitution of the set deadline. After we have completed our decision on the amendment, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the loan agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (Programme loan for the development of public finances) in general. Of the 130 MPs, for 129. The National Assembly passed a bill confirming the loan agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (Programme for Public Finance Development) with the majority of votes of all MPs. We move to the 9th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a CONFORMATION LAW After the National Assembly has conducted a single search and before moving to a decision, I remind you that, on the basis of Article 105 paragraph 6 of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly decides on the laws governing the conclusion and validation of international contracts, most of the votes of all MPs. Since no amendments have been submitted to the draft law, I am voting on the draft law confirming the loan agreement (K10) between the Republic of Serbia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, in general. Of the 130 MPs, 129 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. We move to the 10th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a LAW ON APPROVAL OF THE FINANCIAL CONTRIBUTION BETWEEN THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA AND THE EUROPEAN INVESTIGATION BANK AUTOPUT CORDOR 10 (E-75) Since the National Assembly has carried out a single search and before moving to a decision, I remind you that, on the basis of Article 105 paragraph 6 of Article 105 of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly decides on the laws governing the conclusion and validation of international contracts, most of the votes of all national MPs. Since no amendments have been tabled under the draft law, I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Financial Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank Autoput Corridor 10 (E-75) in general. Of the 130 MPs, 129 voted in favour. The National Assembly passed the bill by a majority of the votes of all MPs. We move to the 11th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a LAW ON THE CONSERVATION OF THE FINANCIAL CONTRIBUTIONS BETWEEN THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA AND THE EUROPEAN INVESTIATION BANK "LEASE FOR PUBLISH AND REGION INFRASTRUCTURE B" Since the National Assembly has carried out a single search and before moving to a decision, I remind you that, on the basis of Article 105 paragraph 6) of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly decides on the laws governing the conclusion and validation of international contracts, most of the votes of all the MPs. Since amendments have not been submitted to the draft law, I am putting the bill in general to the vote. Of the 130 MPs, 129 voted in favour. The National Assembly passed the bill by a majority of the votes of all MPs. We move to the 12th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on the Delegation of the Republic of Serbia to Eurobank EFG A.D. BELGRAD Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the Bills in principle and in particular, and before moving to a decision, I remind you that, on the basis of Article 105 paragraph 3 of Article 4) of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly decides on the laws governing the public borrowing of most of the votes of all MPs. We move to a decision on the bill in principle. Of the 130 MPs, all 130 MPs voted in favour. Most of the votes of all MPs were accepted by the National Assembly by the draft law in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendment. The third amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. The government and the Finance Committee have accepted the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Of the 130 MPs, 128 voted. With the majority of votes of all MPs, the National Assembly accepted this amendment. I put to the vote the draft law on the debt of the Republic of Serbia to the Eurobank EFG a.d. Belgrade, in general. Of the 130 MPs, 129 voted in favour. The National Assembly passed a bill on the responsibility of the Republic of Serbia to the Eurobank EFG a.d. by the majority of the votes of all MPs. We move on to the decision of the National Assembly on the injuries of the Rules of Procedure to which MPs pointed during the session. Since the session shows violations of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I remind you of the provision of Articles 100, 6 and 10. The Rules of Procedure, according to which, even after explaining the President of the National Assembly, the MP considers that the infringement has been committed, the National Assembly will, without delay, declare itself in the day of the vote. National MP Zoran Krasic, at a session on 11 December 2009, at 16 hours and 46 minutes, pointed to an injury. 90th and 91st. Rules of Procedure. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether those members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted in favour. The National Assembly decided that those members of the Rules of Procedure were not injured. National MP Vjerica Radeta, at a session on 12 December 2009, at 19 hours and 48 minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 101. Rules of Procedure. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted in favour. The National Assembly decided that no injured member of the Rules of Procedure had been injured. National MP Slobodan Maras, at a session on 16 December 2009, at 17 hours and three minutes, pointed to a breach of Article 104. Rules of Procedure. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether the injured member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted in favour. The National Assembly decided that it was not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination of all points of the agenda of this session and decision on them, pursuant to Article 99. Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude the sixth session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009. (The session is closed at 1400 hours. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-21-0.u34386	THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA National Assembly OF THE STENOGRAPHICAL TEXT THE seventh session of the Second Regular Session on 21 December 2009 (First Day of Work) (The session began at 14.00 hours. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, president of the National Assembly, holds the presidency. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-21-0.u34387	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the 7th session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 160 MPs. I remind you, Article 86 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provide that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly in the adoption of the minutes and establishment of the agenda exists if at least 126 MPs are present at the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the MPs' units. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 129 MPs are present in the hall, and that there are working conditions. I would like to inform you that the sittings have been prevented from being attended by MPs Milica Radovic and Dragan Šormaz. In accordance with Article 84(2) and Article 85(4), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I have convened this session exclusively for Monday, as well as within a shorter period than set out in Article 84(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, because of the need for the National Assembly to consider proposals for acts in the proposed agenda as soon as possible. This session, which was delivered to you, contained a draft agenda for the session. Before the sitting agenda is established, pursuant to Article 90(5) and Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, it is necessary for the National Assembly to decide on proposals for the putting up of agendas by emergency procedure and on a proposal for a merger of discussions. The government proposed that the draft law amending and supplementing the Criminal Code, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 11 December 2009. Please make a statement. Of the 130 MPs, 127 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government has proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Violations be put on the agenda. I'm putting a motion to vote. I find that 128 MPs voted for this proposal 128, i.e. the National Assembly accepted this proposal. The government has proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Violence and Misbehavior at sports events be put on the agenda. I'm asking for a statement. Of the 129 MPs, 124 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government has proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the draft law on the borrowing of the Republic of Serbia to Ersta GCIB Finance I.B.V. Amsterdam, from Erste Bank. d. Novi Sad as an agent, Marfin Bank a.d. Belgrade and Vojvodjanska Banka a.d. Novi Sad, who submitted to the National Assembly on 11 December 2009. I'm asking for a statement. Of the 129 MPs, nine voted in favour. I find this proposal not accepted. The government proposed that the draft law supplementing the Immobility Transport Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 14 December 2009. I'm asking for a statement. Of the 129 MPs, 128 voted. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government proposed putting the Amnesty Law proposal, which submitted to the National Assembly on 17 December 2009. I'm asking for a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. This proposal was not accepted. The government has proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the draft fire protection law be put on the agenda. I'm asking for a statement. Of the 129 MPs, 126 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government has proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Prosecution Procedure, which was submitted on 17 December 2009. Please make a statement. Of the 131 MPs, 127 voted. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The High Council of the Judiciary has proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the motion for a decision to elect judges for a three-year term in courts of general and special jurisdiction, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 17 December 2009. Please make a statement. Of the 131 MPs, 126 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The state's chief prosecutor suggested that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the draft decision to elect a deputy public prosecutor, which submitted to the National Assembly on 17 December 2009. I'm asking for a statement. Of the 131 MPs, 127 voted. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government proposed that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the Emergency Law, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 18 December 2009. Of the 131 MPs, 125 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government proposed that the draft law on administrative disputes, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 18 December 2009, be put on the agenda, following an urgent procedure. I'm asking for a statement. Of the 131 MPs, 126 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the draft law on the termination of the Law on the Organisation and Business of Economic Units of Criminal Penalties, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 18 December 2009, be put on the agenda. I'm asking for a statement. Of the 132 MPs, 128 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government has proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the draft amending and supplementing law on the 2009 budget of the Republic of Serbia, which submitted to the National Assembly on 18 December 2009. Of the 132 MPs, 128 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government proposed that the draft law amending and supplementing the Accounting and Audit Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 18 December 2009. I'm asking for a statement. Of the 132 MPs, 124 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government has proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the draft law amending and supplementing the Business Registers Agency Act, which submitted to the National Assembly on 18 December 2009. Of the 132 MPs, 128 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government has proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Tax on Income of Citizens be put on the agenda. I'm asking for a statement. Of the 132 MPs, two voted for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. The government has proposed that, by emergency procedure, the draft law amending and supplementing the corporate tax law be put on the agenda. I'm asking for a statement. Of the 132 MPs, three voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Vlatko Ratkovic, pursuant to Article 90(3) of Article 142(2) and Article 152 paragraph 3. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that: 1st Joint Principle and Single Search on: Proposal for an Emergency Law; Proposal for a Law on the Protection of Fire; Proposal for a Law amending the Act on the Security and Information Agency; Proposal for a Law amending the Act on the Security and Information Agency; Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Code on Criminal Code; Proposal for a Law on Administrative Disputes; Proposal for a Law on Administrative Disputes; Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act of the Act of the Act on Infringements; Proposal for a Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Laws of the Act on the Laws of Laws of the Republic of Serbia; Proposal for an Act on Amendments of the Act on the Laws of the Act on the Laws of the Act on the Law on Amendments of the Laws of the Act on the Act on the Laws of Laws of Laws; Proposals for Amendments for Amendments and the Laws of the Laws of the Law on the Laws of the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Laws of the Laws of the Laws of the Laws of the Laws and on the Laws of the Laws of the Laws of the Laws of the Laws of the Laws of the Courts of the Courts of the Courts of the Courts of the Courts of the Courts of the Courts of the Courts, the Courts of the Courts of the Courts, the Courts of the Courts, the Courts, the Courts of Laws, the Courts of the Courts, and the Courts of Laws of Laws of Laws, and the Courts of Laws, and the Courts of Laws, and the Laws of Laws, and the Laws, and the Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws, and of Laws, and of Laws, and the Laws, and the Laws, and the Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws, and of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws, and of Laws of Laws, and of Laws of Laws, and of Laws Does MP Vlatko Ratkovic want a word? No, I don't. ) I put this proposal to the vote and ask the MPs to press the corresponding key on the parliamentary unit. Please take a look at your screens on the MPs' units. You will see that by 122, out of 135 that have declared themselves, so I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. Since we have agreed on proposals for putting on the agenda of the session of acts under emergency procedure and on a proposal to merge the debate, pursuant to Article 92(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I put to the vote a draft agenda in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. Of the 134 MPs, 129 MPs accepted this proposal. I ask the service to prepare the consolidated text of the agenda. I find that the National Assembly established the agenda of the 7th session of the 2nd regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009. Dn e v n i r e d: 1. Proposal for an Emergency Law, 2. Proposal for a fire protection law, 3. Proposal for a law amending the Security and Information Agency Act, 4. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Criminal Code, 5. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Procedural Procedure, 6. Proposal for a law on administrative disputes, 7. A Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Infringements, 8 / 8 Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Violence and Misbehavior at Sports Events, 9. Proposal for a law supplementing the Transport of immovableity Act, 10. Proposal for a law on the termination of the Act on the Organisation and Business of the Economic Units of the Criminal Sanctions Institution, 11. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2009, 12. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Accounting and Audit Act, 13. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Act on the Agency for Economic Registers, 14. A motion for a decision to elect judges to a three-year term in courts of general and special jurisdiction, 15. Proposal for a decision to elect a deputy public prosecutor, 16. Application for the termination of the office of Judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia, 17. Proposal for a decision on the termination of the judicial duty (number 118-2984/09), 18. Proposal for a decision on the termination of the judicial duty (number 118-3451/09), 19. Proposal for a decision on the discharge of a public prosecutor, 20. Proposal for a decision on the termination of the Attorney General's office, 21. Proposal for a candidate to elect a member of the First Chamber of the High Council of the Court of Justice, 22. List of candidates for the selection of three members of the Council of the Republic Broadcasting Agency, 23. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the State of Israel on visa waiver for their citizens, 24. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Slovenia on social security. We are moving to item 1 of the agenda – I would like to inform you that, for the purpose of considering the 1-10 and 23 items of the sitting agenda, I am in agreement with Article 88(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, in addition to the representatives of Ivica Dacic, the first Deputy Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior, Milan Markovic, Minister of State Administration and Local Self-Government, and Snezana Malović, Minister of Justice, invited the members to attend: Slobodan Homen, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice, Mirko Stefanović, State Secretary at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Predrag Marić, Assistant Minister of the Interior, Vladana Jović and Bratislav Đokić, Assistant Minister of State Administration and Local Self-Government, Momirka Marinković, Assistant Minister of Foreign Affairs, Milorad Todorovic, Secretary of the Ministry of Interior, Ivan Zarev, Head of the Ministry of the Interior, Jovan Ćosić, Head of the Ministry of Justice, Violeta Marinković, Senior Legal Advisor at the Ministry of the Ministry of the Interior, Vladimir-St. Mr. Milos Aligrudic answered the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-21-0.u34388	I'm advertising a breach of Article 104. I will say what it consists of, in my opinion, a violation of dignity and a reputation for the National Assembly. When you, as chairman, dare to put your conscience and problems to the vote of a motion to join the agenda, as it was done by Vlatko Ratkovic and the ruling majority who agreed so, in which you have the law on emergency situations, the law on the approval of the Agreement between the Government of Serbia and Israel on visa waiver, the law on amendments to the Criminal Code, and then the law on amendments and additions to the Law on Infractions, etc., and all in the context of a principled search, where nothing is given in a valid manner ( none of these points of the agenda can be discussed properly and entered into the essence of any of this), this session is called on Friday, that we have a break consisting of a weekend in which one of the largest Serb celebrations of St. Nicholas, where no one can be properly prepared and entered into into the fundamental principles of this House, which is not in any way, in any way, in any way, in any particular, in any way, in any way, in any way, in any way, in any particular manner, which is worthy of this House of the rightly, in any way, in any way, in any way, which is to be affected of this House. There is nothing that can in a more explicit way disrupt dignity and procedure of debate in the National Assembly than what you have done for a moment. I don't have a different way of reacting to this, except like this. I really believe that if anything can disrupt this home's dignity, it's this procedure that you've just done. What more can damage dignity than that? The whole idea, the word parliamentaryism, of the Latin "parlare" (talk), was murdered here. You don't have anything from Parliament here after what you've done. They're completely out of proportion. What does the visa waiver law have to do with administrative disputes?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-21-0.u34389	Time. According to my assessment, there's no breach of the Rules of Procedure here, which I would have had to do during the session without me reacting to. You were, in fact, talking about the position of the Assembly that declared itself to join the agenda points. So there's no breach of procedure, but if you're not satisfied, the Assembly can make that clear. You're asking the assembly to come forward? Yeah. ( b) The congregation will declare this. A unanimous decision by the National Assembly to carry out a joint principled search on proposals for the agenda of items 1-10 and a single review of the draft agenda law under item 23, and before the opening of the search, I remind you that, in accordance with Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, shall be five hours, and shall be distributed in the following way: Parliament group 'For European Serbia' – one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; SRS MP group – one hour, seven minutes and 12 seconds; MP group G17 plus – 28 minutes and 48 seconds; Parliament group DSS - Vojislav Kostunica – 25 minutes and 12 seconds; MP group "Forward, Serbia" – 25 minutes and 12 seconds; MP group SPS-JS – 18 minutes; MP group LDP – 14 minutes and 24 seconds; Parliament group "New Serbia" – 10 minutes and 48 seconds;Employment group of minorities – eight minutes and 24 seconds and the PUPS group – six minutes. According to Article 93(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, MPs who are not members of any of the parliamentary groups, have the right to speak every one to five minutes. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. I would like to inform you that the DSS-Vojislav Kostunica parliamentary group has been authorised by Mr Zeljko Tomic, MP at points 1-10 and point 23 of this session. No one else has made a statement in writing for now. According to Article 142(2) and Article 152(3). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I open a joint search on the draft law on emergency situations, the draft law on fire protection, the draft law amending the Law on the Security and Information Agency, the draft law amending and supplementing the Code of Criminal Code, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Criminal Procedures, the Proposal for a Law on Administrative Disputes, the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Violents, the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Law on the Prevention of Violence and Misbehaving in Sports Procedures, the Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the Law on Transport of Immobilities, the Proposal for a Law on the End of the Application of the Law on the Law on the Organisation and Business of business units of institutions for the enforcement of criminal sanctions and a single review of the law on the Law on the approval of the Law of the Law of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the State of Israel on the visas for their nationals. Does the first Deputy Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister and Interior Minister Ivica Dacic want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-21-0.u34390	Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen, before I move on to these two laws that are within the jurisdiction of the Ministry of the Interior, allow me to address the visa liberalisation, which took place on December 19th of this year, to give my thanks and congratulations to you, the People's MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Had it not been for the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the laws necessary for the so-called crossing would never have been passed. maps of the road to visa liberalisation. I hope and I am sure that, in the course of Serbia's accession to the European Union, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will play an inevitable and very important role. When it comes to laws that are on the agenda, over the last 30 years, the number of disasters in the world has increased multiplely, as well as the devastating effects they have on society and the environment. Catastrophes are the strongest hit by developing countries, given that they are the most vulnerable and have the least capacity to deal with them. Global warming and climate change result in intense and frequent phenomena of major and catastrophic fires, floods, droughts, storm winds, earthquakes. Climate change also contributes to the rapid destruction of the environment, with the consequences of people's health, the survival of many natural species and cultural heritage. Still, some disasters can be avoided. There are ways to reduce risks and limit consequences, e.g. if the basic causes of the vulnerability of society are recognised and the capacity of society to deal with them is strengthened. The area of disaster risk reduction covers preparedness, mitigation and prevention and aims to strengthen disaster resistance, and is supported by knowledge of how to manage risk, how to strengthen capacities and use new technologies. An effective reduction in the risk of disasters can greatly reduce the number of human victims and material damage. Studies by prominent international institutions have shown that each euro invested in the prevention and reduction of the risk of disasters is fourfold reducing the isolation to respond to emergency situations. Political commitment is key to raising the risk reduction area of disasters at all levels. The UN and the EU support developing countries to accept the concept of disaster risk reduction and implement so-called. 'Hyogo Framework', a document in which the UN developed a programme policy for the area of disaster risk reduction, i.e. elemental accidents and technical and technological accidents. The 'Hyogo Framework' document for action from 2005 to 2015, strengthening the resistance of nations and communities to disasters, adopted 168 countries at the UN World Conference in Japan, held in January 2005. The reduction in the risk of disasters requires a strong institutional basis, which can be achieved through capacity building, good governance, promotion of appropriate programming policies and legislation, facilitated information flow and efficient coordination mechanisms. The adoption of the new legislation will now allow the area of disaster risk reduction and protection and rescue at national and local level to become a priority, with a strong institutional basis for implementation, priority number one of the "Hyogo Frameworks". The government of the Republic of Serbia recognised the need to improve the system of prevention, protection and rescue and response in the event of disasters, or civil emergency situations. Realising the government's conclusion of March 5th this year has taken action to form a single service for protection and rescue in emergency situations. Thus, the Ministry of Defence Emergency Protection and Rescue Sector has been reorganised into the Emergency Sector, in which members of the Ministry of Defence Emergency and a number of employees in the Ministry of Environmental Protection are involved. In this way, an integrated emergency protection system is being established in Serbia, which will also represent a realisation of the prevailing European ideas on how the services dealing with this issue work. The joint efforts by the representatives of the MUP and the Ministry of Defence have prepared a draft law on emergency situations, which contributes to Serbia's further progress, as it provides protection and security to our citizens in a similar way as other modern European countries do. The law that is before you puts citizens first and their security, because we are developing this law a persistent, efficient and transparent mechanism for acting in emergency situations, which will benefit all levels of administration, local and national. The Emergency Law helps us on our way to European integration, as this law establishes standards and a system of modern emergency management, in line with international standards. Experiences from current crisis situations have shown that the application of the applicable rules in this area has led to problems in the unique functioning of all relevant emergency services, primarily due to the division of competence between individual ministries and other state administration bodies. In the Republic of Serbia, the applicable norms contained in the 1988 Fire Protection Act and the elementary disasters in 1977, which mainly regulate the way in which the protection and rescue system is organised, and therefore raises many questions in the interpretation and application of the current law, since it is difficult to determine which entities are subject to the rights and obligations provided for by law, as these are business entities which, legally speaking, do not exist because of the completely amended way of organisation of companies and the changed dominant form of property of companies and other legal entities. In addition to the said Law on Fire Protection and Essential Accidents, the area relating to protection against natural and other disasters is part of the Defence Act, part of the way civil protection is organised and individually in other laws. This way of unanimity regulation of emergency management makes it very difficult to operate because it is necessary to comply with the procedures of different national authorities, and thus endangers the timely response in emergency situations, which is unacceptable for such a sensitive area. Further reasons justifying the legal regulation of this issue during the period of transition changes in society are certainly also harmonising regulations with EU countries' regulations. The legal norms of international law, as well as the national rules of certain EU member states, certainly constitute the highest standard in the norm of those areas that have fundamental values for the subject, such as human life, integrity, natural environment and property, and would, through the adoption of this law, reach the highest degree of security of citizens under the given circumstances. The key issue for creating conditions for effective protection of citizens and material goods in emergency situations is just the adoption of a legal framework that would create a basis for a comprehensive solution to all issues related to an effective emergency response and allow for the adoption of sublegal acts and technical regulations that would be defined more closely by the legislation. In the past ten years, Serbia has faced the consequences of catastrophic fires and explosions, and in this respect there is no dilemma that the fire poses one of the greatest risks to the security of citizens, their property and cultural heritage. It is based on these facts that conditions have been created that the existing legal framework, more than 20 years old, is changing, and the state gets a more effective response to the challenges in this area. There are many reasons that have affected amending the law, which has not been approached before: the undefined position of the fire protection service, the lack of financial resources, the insufficiently precise link in the area of building planning, etc. In the last year, however, an ambience has been created as part of a whole series of moves taken to create an integrated system of protection for citizens in emergency situations. Of course, experience has been taken into account both in the region and in EU countries. The place and role of fire rescue units is precisely defined after a long period of time, with the creation of the possibility that in the time to come, and with the fulfillment of the relevant material and financial conditions, there is a decentralisation of this service, which is referred not only to the Law on Local Self-Government, but also to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. In a desire not to repeat the mistakes some countries have made by making hasty moves in the area of decentralisation, Serbia has in this case acted cautiously, recognising the need to create material conditions in the context of local self-government first so that fire-saving units can continue to function successfully. The constitutional basis for the adoption of this law is contained in the provision of Article 97(17) which found that the Republic of Serbia regulates other relations of interest for the Republic of Serbia, in accordance with the Constitution. The basic text of the applicable Fire Protection Act was adopted in 1988, and all its amendments and additions did not substantially alter the concept of the law. Thus, the main bearers of fire protection are today non-existent organisational forms, which were adapted to the former constitution of the Socialist Republic of Serbia. The analysis of both individual solutions and the law in general concluded the need to prepare a new law, all in order to comply with new constitutional provisions, as well as to comply with EU rules. Given the results of the previous analysis, it has been estimated that the adoption of this law should create a basis for more effective protection of people and material goods, offices of sublegal regulations, enable more effective application of technical regulations, better organisation and training of fire and rescue units, strengthen the responsibility of fire protection entities and offices of other issues. The adoption of a new fire protection law would significantly improve this area, raise the level of security of people, material goods and cultural heritage and allow the introduction of new technical measures appropriate to the modern world. The new law aims to fully and properly define the system of fire protection, its entities, the obligations of the entity and the principles relating to protection, prevention, the constant raising of awareness of citizens and the public, co-operation, solidarity and accountability. The new fire protection law will benefit the most from citizens of the Republic of Serbia, through increased safety of life and material goods, but also from all economic operators, companies, entrepreneurs and public enterprises, as well as other legal entities, by making their obligations in the area of fire protection clearer and, finally, public authorities, bodies of the autonomous province and bodies of local self-government better regulated relations and work. Ladies and gentlemen, the area we are discussing today from the interior ministry's jurisdiction, the area of protection against emergency situations and fire protection is of paramount importance and exceeds the daily political relations on the political scene in Serbia. With all this in mind, I invite you to a professional debate when it comes to these issues. We are ready to look at and respect all the objections, because this law is not written by politicians, but by the people who deal with this profession. In this sense, one thing is certain - Serbia is necessary and necessary to have such legal solutions, because these issues are mostly remembered to be discussed when it is too late, when the consequences of disasters and fires already come. That is why I call on you, following the debate, to look at the amendments proposed, to support these legal projects in the interest of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-21-0.u34391	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The word is Mrs. Snezana Malovic, minister of justice.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-21-0.u34392	Dear Presidents, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, at the beginning of this united debate, I would like to make several preliminary remarks on the six laws proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which was prepared by the Ministry of Justice. I would highlight their great importance for the citizens of Serbia, as well as for the more efficient work of judicial authorities in the Republic of Serbia. At first, I'd like to present a paper in the law on preventing violence and misbehave at sports events. The applicable law has in a comprehensive way arranged matter to prevent violence and misbehave in sports events. Its standards identify a wide range of both preventive and repressive measures to prevent violence at sports events. However, an increasing number of incidents with elements of violence at sports events require the need to pass this law, in order to make the fight against violence at sports events even more intense and efficient. Large sports events are in any case a potential for serious disturbance of public order and peace and escalation of conflict, followed by damage and destruction of property, equipment and resources, as well as minor physical injuries, but in the most difficult case and death of participants in sports events. The proposed amendments and additions to this law strengthens the responsibility of all participants in the sport event and introduces a more restrictive criminal policy, specifys the existing and introduces new obligations and responsibilities of the organisers and participants in the sports events and responsibilities of the MUP, all in order to fight hooliganism more effectively and effectively. These changes and additions also create a legal basis for redistributing the director's office, which is responsible for physical security and maintaining order at the sports event and extends powers to the directors in order to protect them. The proposed solutions form the basis for the country's systematic fight, its authorities and sports organisations against violence at sports events. In addition, changes in the law also extend to cases of violence and misbehavior that do not take place at the sports event itself, but are directly related to sports events. It also extends the time interval of the sports event to two hours before the start and two hours after the completion of the sports event, i.e. four hours before the start and four hours after the completion of the sports event of the increased risk. The application of the provisions of the law also extends to preventing those acts of violence and misbehavior which have been shown to occur significantly before the start and after the completion of the sport event. It has often occurred that violent behavior occurred in an hour past the start of a sports event or one hour after the end. The acts of bullying committed before and after a time period of law could not be treated as acts of violence at sports events. The obligation of the organizers of the sports event to educate the directorial service is established. The already existing powers of the directorial service are also introduced by the authority that a member of the directorial service can use physical power to carry out its tasks. On the use of the physical force, the director is required to make a written report and submit it to the organizer, who is obliged to forward it to the police. A change in the requirement to offer tickets for a sports event is also foreseen to prevent the organiser from releasing more tickets than available capacity for sale. The number of tickets a person can buy and prohibit ticket resales is also limited. In addition, tickets for high-risk sports events are predicted only to be sold to persons holding an identification document. It is also prescribed that on the day of the sports event, the increased ticket risk is sold only in a sports facility where the sports event is held or near it. The organisers' obligation is also introduced to provide space for the workings of the judge and the public prosecutor at an increased risk sports event, as well as an appropriate room for the safe retention of participants in a sporting event that is being misbehaved. The special newspaper is responsible for the infringements of the sports event organisers if the director's service does not carry out the tasks for which the law has been authorised, as well as the infringements related to the sale of tickets. In addition, it is important to point out that, in line with the proposed amendments to the Law on Violation, substantial increases in fines, ranging from one million to two million dinars for a legal person, and for a natural and responsible face of 50,000-150.000 dinars. When it comes to violations, natural persons are required to impose a safeguard against attending certain sports events for offenders. Also, in line with the proposed amendments to the Law on Violations, significant increases in fines, which now amount to 50,000-150,000 dinars for a natural person. Given the changes mentioned above, it is necessary to make changes and additions to the applicable Criminal Code, all in order to make the fight against violence at sports events even more intense and efficient. With the latest amendments and additions to the Code of Criminal Code of September 2009, the Criminal Code was complemented by the provision of Article 344a, which introduced the criminal act - violent behaviour at the sports event, which was previously prescribed in the Law on the Prevention of Violence and Misbehavior at sports events. In view of the above, it is necessary to supplement the Criminal Code by prescribing the security of the presence ban at certain sports events, which will establish new sanctions in order to fight more effectively to prevent violence at sports events. This measure is expressed when necessary in order to protect general security. The perpetrator of the crime to which this security measure has been imposed is obliged to report to the police station before the start of certain sports events and to stay at the station during the event. The duration of this measure cannot be shorter than one, not more than five years, with time spent in the maintenance of the prison sentence not counting at the time of this measure. If the security measure is imposed under probation, in the event of a breach of the security measure, the court shall withdraw the parole. In addition, the provision of Article 344 of the Criminal Code, which prescribes a criminal offence, is complemented by violent behaviour at a sports event, by determining that the perpetrator of this criminal act will be required to give the safety and ban on attending certain sports events. One of the reasons for the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Infringements is the need to tighten sanctions for offences, given that the existing penalties, both physically and legal persons, are insufficient to achieve the purpose of punishing the offences committed. The second reason for the adoption of the law is the need to amend certain provisions of this law in order to more effectively conduct an infringement procedure and to comply with the latest amendments of the Criminal Procedure Code, which is subject to a subsidiary procedure. The third reason is, as I have already said, the necessity to comply with the proposed amendments to the Law on the Prevention of Violence and misbehaving in sports events and the provisions of the new Transport Safety Act. It should be pointed out that the proposed amendments to the law are another step in judicial reform, as the application of the Law on Violations begins from 1 January 2010, when the work begins with law enforcement courts, which for the first time is part of the justice system of the Republic of Serbia. The bill increases the amount of fines for violations. For natural persons, the range is proposed to be 5,000-15 000 dinars, instead of the current 500-50,000. Legal persons are suggested that punishment for violations can be prescribed in the range of 100,000 to 2 million dinars, instead of tens of thousands to millions of dinars so far. The deadlines for the payment of fines for violations are also shortened, so that this period cannot be longer than three months, unlike a valid solution, according to which the deadline for the payment of fines cannot be longer than six months. The possibilities for easing penalties have also been reduced, so according to the proposed solution, the prescribed penalty can only be greatly mitigated, only in such a way as to impose the penalty below the minimum penalty prescribed for a certain offence. There was also a harmonisation of the monetary value of one day in prison with a solution from the Penal Code, with the value of one day being determined in the amount of a thousand dinars. As I said, this law regulates the safeguards of the ban on attending certain sports events, which for reasons of integrity was introduced into the Law on Infringements, and according to the current solution is prescribed in the Law on the Prevention of Violence and Misbehavior at Sports Events. With regard to amendments relating to the infringement procedure, it is prescribed that the infringement court judges in a larger than three judges in the event of a decision to appeal the decisions of the authority in the infringement proceedings. Penalties for breach of procedural discipline are tightened, and that is for a legal person - the non-determining of representatives in the process, for witnesses - for not coming and refusing to testify, for experts who unjustly refuse to perform the actions in the process. Certain rules of procedure concerning the delivery of letters shall be specified. A new institute, a plea agreement, is being introduced in the criminal proceedings. This institute was introduced for reasons of the effectiveness of the infringement procedure, and the solutions contained in the follow-up of the latest amendments to the Code of Criminal Procedure, which introduced this institute into criminal proceedings. In order to comply with the latest amendments to the Code of Criminal Procedure, I would point out that the Law on Infringements is being deleted - an emergency legal remedy and a request for examination of a judicial verdict. The proposal for a law supplementing the Immobility Transport Act creates a legal basis for the specific means of verifying the immovable property transport contract and keeping specific records of the certification of these contracts, and in order to prevent the possibility of multiple sales of the same immovableity and fraud of safe customers. In particular, it is predicted that the approval of the signature of the immovable transport contract can only be carried out in the basic court in whose territory the immovable property is located. In addition, authorisation and obligation shall be granted to the official to refuse the confirmation of signatures on the immovable transport contract if it finds that the signatures in the second transport contract are already certified of the same immovableity whose seller is the same person. In order to protect the right of the contractor, an appeal to the judge is allowed to rule out a refusal of signature. It is also envisaged to keep a special record in court of the immovableity contracts submitted for the purpose of certifying the signature of the contractors. The draft law also lays down a time limit for the adoption of a sub-legislative act to regulate the keeping of specific records on immovable transport contracts submitted for the purpose of certifying the signature of the contractors. The law on the organisation and operation of economic units of criminal sanctions was adopted in 1977. A total of eight economic units were established under this law in certain institutions. The current normative situation is such that that law is not in line with any regulation governing the enforcement of economic units in state bodies. In addition, the fact is that jobs in business units are systematised within the framework of the Internal Planning and Systematization Act of Jobs in Training and Employment Services in certain institutions, so that business units do not have employees in fact. Also, the Law on the execution of criminal sanctions precisely regulates the tasks and work of the Training and Employment Service in the Institutions, as well as the work of convicted persons, so that with that law the provisions of the Law on the Organisation and Business of the Economic Units of the Institute for the Implementation of Criminal Sanctions are in direct contrast. For all of these reasons, it is necessary to pass a law on the termination of the law, and it is also necessary to regulate and assume the rights and obligations, assets, assets, documentation and archives of economic units at the same time. The adoption of amending and supplementing laws on litigation is proposed primarily for the purpose of the need to comply with the provisions of the applicable law with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Also, there is a need for harmonisation of the Law on Procedural Procedure with other laws relating to this law, e.g. Family law. In addition, the law also implements certain amendments to the Law on the litigation of proceedings necessary for the reasons of its alignment with the new laws governing the organisation of courts in the Republic of Serbia, taking into account the distinction of jurisdiction between basic and senior courts in civil proceedings. This law proposes only the necessary and urgent amendments and additions to the Law on the Procedural Procedure, while in the further process of reforming civil procedural law in the Republic of Serbia in the coming year, comprehensive amendments will be made to both the Law on the Procedural Procedure and other procedural laws in the field of civil law, in particular the Law on the Executive Procedure and the Act on the Extraparnical Procedure. Among the most important newspapers in the litigation process that is proposed, I would point out: the possibility of a judge extending the trial by an individual in a litigation process by increasing the value of a dispute in which an individual judge can judge, and also extending the possibility of a judge of an individual under the agreement of the parties. It is determined that in the second degree, there is always a greater judge than the three judges. In addition, it is prescribed that the Supreme Cassation Court always decides in excess of three judges, which is in line with the provisions of the new Court Regulation. The reasons for the inadmissibility of the exclusion or exemption requirements shall be extended. In addition to the existing reasons for the inadmissibility of the motion to exclude or exclude the judge, new reasons have been introduced where the party requires the exclusion or exemption of a judge who does not act in that case, as well as in the case of a request for the exclusion or exemption of the President of the Court. The possibility of judicial assistants being able to take their own actions to organise the preparatory hearing or the first hearing for the main debate, as well as to carry out the tasks of the previous examination of the case is introduced. The court's obligation is to make a decision not to hear the parties, witnesses, witches, as well as not to carry out new insights, but to read the records on the performance of these evidence in the event of the hearing being held before the amended major, or judge of the individual. It is found that in the case where the first-degree ruling has already been suspended once, the second-degree court cannot lift the verdict and refer the case to the first-degree court for retrial. Conditions for the declaration of audit shall be changed. Against the verdict reached in the second degree, the revision is not allowed if the value of the disputed part of the judicial verdict does not exceed the dinar equivalent of 100,000 euros on the day of the lawsuit. In addition, the revision is always allowed when a special law is laid down. Another reason for repeating the proceedings for the reason of compliance with the Constitutional Court Act has been introduced, and it is envisaged that a repeat procedure may be sought even though the Constitutional Court found in the constitutional appeal a violation of human or minority law and freedom guaranteed by the Constitution in litigation proceedings. The amount of money has been increased from 100,000 dinars to 2,000 euros in dinar equivalent in case the court issues a payment order against the defendant for the amount not exceeding that amount. The cash amount has been changed, which determines the slow low value, from 100,000 dinars to 3,000 euros in dinar equivalent. An audit in economic disputes is allowed if the value of the disputed part of the judicial ruling is exceeding 300,000 euros in dinar equivalent, instead of a valid solution of two and a half million dinars. With regard to the cash amount for small-value disputes in economic disputes, it has been found that these are disputes in which the claim does not exceed the dinar equivalent of 30,000 euros in relation to the current amount of 300,000 dinars. Finally, I would like to thank all of you for your attention and to express my hope that after the debate in principle and in particular the proposed laws will be adopted.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-21-0.u34393	Thank you, Madam Minister. In accordance with Article 37(3), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I would like to inform you that the SRS parliamentary group will discuss points 1-10 and 23. Seven sessions to represent MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does the rapporteur of the Legislative Committee, MP Vlatko Ratkovic, want a word? No, I don't. ) Did the MPs who delivered their opinion at the session of the Legislative Committee, which is Vjerica Radeta, Petar Jojic and Sreto Peric, want a word? Yeah. Mrs. Radeta wants to. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-21-0.u34394	Ladies and gentlemen, despite the fact that, in accordance with the title of this first draft law on emergency situations, the Serbian regime has brought all levels into an emergency situation, we cannot find an excuse to call together a session of the National Assembly or the Legislative Committee. We can't find an excuse nor a legal basis in our rules of procedure for this merger of agenda points. We need to discuss 11 points of the agenda. You two ministers, as a representative of the government, spent twenty minutes each, and now watch how one parliamentary group could schedule time to talk about these proposals. You act like these are completely irrelevant legal proposals and they're on the agenda just for the sake of it. In the harshest possible way, it offends the dignity of the National Assembly, and you of the Government, thanks to the fact that you were allowed by the assembly majority, have turned parliament into a flow water heater. It's not good and it can't give any results. In short, I will comment on these drafts of the law, both the Criminal Code and the Law on Prosecution and the Law on Violations. What we heard on the Legislative Committee really shocked us. It is completely illogical, contrary to legal logic, that we are explained to this committee that, let's say, the Criminal Code is being amended to comply with the Family Law, so that, and so did you, Mrs Malovic, have said, the Law on Infringements is changing to comply with the Law on the Prevention of Violence at Sports Events. So you're doing exactly the opposite of legal logic and legal science. I suppose the Penal Code should be a law to bring all other laws in line with which it is possible to carry out a criminal offence without the law. And you're making a comedy out of the Criminal Code by making a comedian in every law, and we're regularly warning you about it, and we're distracting you that if you want to do a good job and you want to stay remembered for something positive while you're in office, you need to prepare a codification of the Criminal Code, not that every month or two days we're changing the Criminal Code because someone's thought to come up with another crime in some other law that's not already covered by the Criminal Code. There is a similar situation with the Law of Prosecution. This should be the most important law when it comes to litigation, because there is no one more important, and you can't think of a single text that would be worth at least two seasons. It's unserious, Mrs. Malovic. Would you like to remind us that last December 28th, we discussed amendments and additions to the Law on Prosecution? It's December 21st. Every year we end up changing this law. This is not good and it cannot contribute to strengthening the rule of law. On the contrary, everything you do leads to anarchy, just like your judicial reform. Remember that you swore here that no day would be any trouble in the judiciary because of the change of judges, re-elections, etc. A few days ago, you went out and begged the citizens of Serbia for patience, because by February 1st, the courts won't be able to work. Now we invite you to tell us why. We have warned you of everything that can happen and what will happen if you do not accept our suggestions, and you do not accept them. We have a legal collapse today, and we've just been telling you that's what's going to happen. You asked the citizens to be patient until the beginning of February. I'm telling you, there will be no order until May 1st.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-21-0.u34395	The word is Mr. Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-21-0.u34396	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, gentlemen of the Ministers, this assembly best shows the impotence of this government. How can he show in a better way than the MPs of the SRS can? It can be by standing here with the name of acts to be adopted, the time when they arrived in the congregation procedure. It shows that the draft law on emergency situations in the assembly procedure arrived on Friday, when lawmakers finished their working day. A bill on fire protection also a day earlier. And many of these laws arrived on December 17th and 18th. This was not a problem for us to actively engage in the debate under these legal proposals, but it is certain that the quality of the debate will be lagging behind on the amendments and other objections that should be observed. Then, it is unacceptable to merge legislative proposals, a total of 11, where there is an agreement, within the framework of the 1st point to be led united at this meeting. Mr. Dacicu, you've mostly tried to explain the first two draft laws in the most professional way, but you said these bills were not written by politicians, they were written by experts. No more, I think you've been through this more than once in your discussions. There are people who are both politicians and a couple of experts. One of those sits in front of me, Dr. Paya Momchilov. He's an exceptional medical expert, his colleagues say, it's also written by periodic presses, I'm just confirming it, but he's a man and a politician. Don't argue with that again. We also deal with politics, but there are extremely professional people here, who can certainly speak of it in quality. In the debate we will talk in principle about concrete legal proposals, and now a few more reviews about what the SRS representative is underlying. The sanctions in the legal theory are divided into absolutely certain, absolutely undefined and relatively specific. So far, first in the SFRY and then in Serbia, sanctions have been applied that were relatively determined. We suspect that we will quickly be in a position to apply absolutely undefined sanctions in Serbia. What does that mean? That they will not be prescribed in their minimum, not in their maximum, nor in their kind, but that the organs that should apply them will apply them in their own right. Instead of having a coded criminal code, we have a dispersion of criminal acts, and neither are people who are more serious about the profession, and this legal one, they can't handle it. Recently, we had that the president of the Republic of Serbia, as a man who signed an order to declare a certain law, did not know that something in the law was meant to be a violation. If he didn't know that, what do you expect from the largest number of Serbian citizens, that they can get to know the laws or at least their content? And not knowing the legal rules certainly does harm. Take care of those who chose you, whose credit you are sitting here. Don't just try to stay in power as long as possible, that's your primary goal. Neither can you, at last, be pleased to say that in this past, or 2009 so many legal regulations have been adopted. If they are violated by the first man of this country, the one who signs the order, then there is no room for your thanks to how many laws were passed in a certain year. As for the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Transport of immovableity, Mrs Malovic said that we have a situation in practice, which is absolutely and absolutely correct, to sell certain immovableities in Belgrade and probably in other cities a dozen times. But you remembered to change some legal regulations when many mothers knocked, instead of just applying them. There is no systematic control of the application of the rules in Serbia's legal system. And there's the impression that you've knowingly and deliberately left undefined certain things, that it would simply be systematically possible again to abuse and violate certain laws and that those small officials would be in a position to break the law and not to say and to indicate because they see that their bosses, their representatives to a much greater extent... (President: Time. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-21-0.u34397	Cedomir Jovanovic advertises the breach of the Rules of Procedure, as well as Mr Todorovic, who will then get the word. Mr. Nikolic, do you advertise it, too? No, I don't. ) Mr Cedomir Jovanovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-21-0.u34398	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Mr Dacic, Member 27. I think these are also too serious topics for this irresponsible attitude of the first parliament towards them. It is scandalous that we are discussing laws that practically change the laws of 1977, 1988, 1996, that no committees have met, above all I mean the Security Committee, that we are not in a position to work together, not on the very law, but on raising awareness in society. The Emergency Act, the Fire Protection Act, is a very important law needed by our society. Should we remind ourselves of the slide in Nova Varosha, over the flood in Užica and Požega, what was happening in Vojvodina when Tisa was poured out, with all the elemental disasters, Užice - the explosion? What will the effects of this law be when we as MPs...? Look how many of us are here in the O.R. We have not written any amendments, because we do not want to write amendments without the opportunity to talk to the people who have proposed the law to Parliament. We wrote the only amendment to the Criminal Code. I think the Minister will agree on that. It's very important the questions we're discussing here, and I don't know why in this way at all. How will local self-government react when this law comes into force? Is she aware of her responsibilities? Are companies aware of their responsibilities? The industrial zone is a mile from the city center. Will the people who work there be aware of the obligations that follow this law if this is the way we discuss them, if the Committee has not even taken an ambush? I guarantee that 90% of the MPs did not read the law, which came to the Assembly on Friday. If we have 13 minutes for all these laws -- fire protection, emergency situations, administrative dispute, conflict prevention, criminal code. Are we sending a message to society that these aren't important topics? Then who should look into the eyes of families who have been destroyed in accidents, when their property has been destroyed, or when human lives are affected? That's what you'll do, Minister, to go there at midnight and get your shoulders down and say, "What do we do, no money, that's the situation." I'm only interested in whether it had to be done this way, that we'd run out of opportunity to talk about it seriously.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-21-0.u34399	Time. You're, in fact, pointing to the agenda before a formal breach of procedure. The word has been issued by MP Dragan Todorovic, who also advertises the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-21-0.u34400	I could freely report a replica, given that I was appointed president of the Defence and Security Committee, but I don't think the remark is addressed to the right address. As regards the Committee's session, in Article 77, and I have reported on account of Article 77, it is said - a notice on the date, place of maintenance and a proposal for the Committee's agenda shall be submitted to all Members of Parliament, MPs and Government at least five days before the meeting of the Committee. How to schedule a session of the Defence and Security Committee when the material for the three laws responsible for the Defence and Security Committee was delivered on Friday, following the departure of all MPs from the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, was placed on the Council of Serbia's website on Saturday, at St. Nicholas, and it is obvious that even by the scenario here, the Assembly had no intention of holding a session of the Defence and Security Committee. It was logical that these three laws... These two are extremely important, and this third one, related to the Security and Information Agency, is just technical. This shows the essence of the way it works, the functioning of the Republika Srpska Assembly, primarily DS. They were there when the hand was to be raised, or voted, and now there are three. There aren't any now, except three MPs, not one single DS MP. How do you expect the Committee's session to be scheduled? Do you expect us to break the Rules of Procedure? No, we will work exclusively in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, but the masks, which the ruling majority is always trying to put on and deceive Serbian citizens about how they allegedly want the debate from the Assembly to move into committees. That's not true. You had the best chance to see that it wasn't exactly before the adoption of the budget, one of the most important laws of the year. In one day, five or six committees could not be held because there were no majority at the meetings of those committees, by the ruling majority MPs. For what? Because they don't even want to hold board sessions. Because if they wanted to, their MPs would come, as they do when something needs to be voted. Here, today they managed to get 'em to come and vote, to finish it, and then pick them up right away and get out of the O.R. And in the future, as regards the Committee on Defence and Security, the sessions will be set exclusively by the Rules of Procedure, which means that we get the material in time, so that MPs can study the bill's proposals and on this basis simply contribute, their remarks, to eventually try to improve (President: Time), I conclude, and the proposals that arrive at the Serbian Parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-21-0.u34401	Since it's an emergency procedure, it's not your deadlines. Mr. Petar Jojic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-21-0.u34402	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as far as the proposed laws are concerned, I can say that the professional public has to see and hear this, that the motions of the law are being sent to the MPs a day or two before the meeting, and that it is more than twenty laws. Where's that? This isn't about hunting and fishing. No, ladies and gentlemen. Gentlemen Ministers, these laws were to come before the National Assembly at least ten days ago, so that the MPs would be familiar with their content, and on the other hand, to compare what is proposed by the relevant ministries with the comparative law and applicable legal norms, i.e. regulations. When it comes to amending and supplementing the Criminal Code, I must say that here it is trying to violate fundamental human rights in the most cruel way and that, in any case, certain discrimination is being committed. Because this is not in accordance with the Charter of the UN, with the Resolution and the Human Rights Pact, it is not in accordance with the Constitution. You restrict the rights of citizens, you give yourself the right to certain resolutions so that they can apply the standards of certain laws as it was during Informbiro or Saberje. Let me remind you, during "Sablje", 12,500 people were arrested in 2003 and brought into the premises of the internal affairs authorities. I ask the question to the competent justice ministry and to the Home Affairs Minister, to give me an answer - of the 12,500 detained, some detained, how many were convicted? That's one thing. On the other hand, you can't afford, at least this is democracy, apparently, what Broz was doing. When Broz was moving to Novi Sad or Zagreb, it was known, three days before he arrived in Novi Sad or Sarajevo or Ljubljana or Pančevo or Nis, the state enemies who put UDBA on the blacklist were obliged to come to County Prison with a blanket and lie down until Broz was 100 or 200 kilometers away from the city where he was staying. This applies to this proposal to amend and supplement the Criminal Code. Please, you can't force people this way that they have to report to the police, that they have to be detained, that they have to file reports anyway when the government asks. If it is a breach of public order and peace or a threat to the security of citizens, then the competent state authority, i.e. The police, have freed their hands, according to the Code of Criminal Procedure, under the Law on the Police and other regulations, to take appropriate measures. This, if he has committed a crime, will also be responsible for giving him adequate legal sanctions. This is how one image is created and the dust is thrown in the eyes of the public. For God's sake, here, they threatened the country, even threatened its territorial integrity. However, we know who can come and who cannot come, and what reasons and temporary measures can be made. As far as the Law on Prosecution, Mrs. Minister Malovic, is concerned, you have stepped very far and come out of the urgency framework to comply with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. You could have, but it could have been five or six members, not 53. Why? You are now instituting an institute. You're pretending to be a judge. He's taking, according to your proposal, certain procedural actions. He can't make decisions. He can't take statements. He can't participate in the appeal procedure. So we've experienced what we've experienced. Some call it an execution reform in the judiciary. Whether she's gonna be like that or not, it's just gonna show time.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-21-0.u34403	Time, Mr. Jojic. Thank you. Among the presidents, or representatives of parliamentary groups, Mr Cedomir Jovanovic first called.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-21-0.u34404	Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, Mr Dacic, Mrs Malovic...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-21-0.u34405	Mr Jovanovic, if you'll excuse me, I'll give you my word from the beginning, just to inform you, in accordance with Article 85, that we will be working today until the principle debate is over and after 1800 hours. Let's start over. I'm just asking you to re-apply.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-21-0.u34406	Is the introduction from earlier? There's no need to repeat. Thank you. At first, a big protest. There are some topics in which, despite all the divisions in political life, this parliament shows decent development. Regardless of the governments that, for example, appeared with ambition to solve the problem of violence in sports competitions, there was always support for these laws – both in 2003 and in 2007 and at this point. I think it's the same case with the emergency law and the fire protection law. It's just that this way we can't really talk. Perhaps, for example, more funds are needed to fund effective fire protection. There you have defined some criteria, norms - half a liter, taxes and what I know. We just haven't been able to talk to you, so we're looking for a possible increase in separation for that purpose. Because when there's a fire at the Laundz in Novi Sad or when the Imlek is set on fire here in Belgrade, then we all realize how serious these problems are, and those 20 years of hysteria we've been living in has distracted society in the opposite direction from what we should be dealing with. As far as the administrative dispute law is concerned, it's been a lot of work. The current applicable law has been overcome, since 1996. But unfortunately, there's no room to talk about it seriously. What's the first thing we want to say about emergency law? Mr. Dacic, you're kind of over it. We're very interested in the character of that base in Nis. It's a base that, through our country and Russia's partnership, develops and is resolutely responsible for your ministry. Here in law, in Chapter XII. International co-operation, that is Article 140, point 7) says - by harmonising the activities of the forces to protect and save other countries on the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Somehow, in your address to Parliament, you didn't mention that base in Nis, and it's very important to us. Simply, we are a party that is very clearly promoting the policy of co-operation in the region. Of course, a clear partnership policy with NATO, effective implementation and implementation of the Partnership for Peace programme. We don't mind co-operation with the Russian Federation, but we'd like to, if on the agenda is such an important issue as the Emergency Law, then we'd like to hear from you a little bit more about that base that's being built in Nis. When we deal with the analysis of this political issue, then we get a lot more information from representatives of another country than we do from ours. Although these last ones we've received are quite confusing, so the Minister of Emergency of the Russian Federation, Mr. Shoegu, in your presence, says ask the president, and you say, that's for emergencies. You don't know who initiated it, what it takes, how much it costs. There is talk of supporting some other countries in the region. Did something happen in the meantime, did any of us ask for it? I think it's important to define such important issues in a responsible way to narrow down the speculative space. I think that we, on the parliamentary group, will, since we are mutually declaring both the law and the other law, make a decision to support both the emergency law and the fire protection law, but at this point I can't guarantee it, we haven't been able to talk about it. Obviously, there is a need for such laws. That's more than clear. One area was governed by the 1988 law, it's the Fire Protection Act. And the act on elementary disasters is from 1977, 32 years ago, and it's also dysfunctional because part of it was responsible, since it was the organized state, the Ministry of Defence. It's all in one place now. We can only hope that the people who do this to you in the ministry did this job the best way, that they had the support of international organisations. We see that there's a reference to the United Nations, some of their strategies, and that's what's good. It is also good that the Assembly will have the opportunity to adopt a strategy. This is where the ministries that transferred the strategy to the government also appeared. It is paradoxical that the media strategy is defined by the government, and the defence strategy or emergency management strategy is defined by the Assembly. But that only speaks of the discrepancy that exists in the ruling coalition in relation to parliament. We can't talk too much about this law, except there's an obvious need for it. Is consciousness raised to the necessary level? I'm afraid not. Parliament is the first proof of that. I am not sure that businesses in Serbia know how much this law increases their responsibility, whether citizens themselves, local self-government, are aware of it. Do all those who are obliged to take care of the protection of the Danube-Tisa-Dunav channel, the Danube and river flows in the country know how much this law changes their responsibility, did the finance ministry calculate in the budget for the next year the costs that entail the effective application of this law? Those are all open questions. If that's the case here in the congregation, I'm afraid we'll continue to deal with the consequences, and that's the biggest problem. This is how we come to law on preventing violence in stadiums, i.e. at sports events. We're dealing with the consequences again, Mr. Dacic. That's our common problem. Violence is a form of life in Serbia. Violence is rooted deep in the family. You have information that 70% of children are victims of domestic violence. Women are victims of domestic violence. Violence comes from our public life, it's present in politics, at school, and then it just manifests in the stadium. Can't be the only instrument to solve that problem by the police or the judge who's going to have an office in the stadium. You can bring in three, five, ten fans who insult someone in the stadium, who threaten someone, threaten their lives, but what happens when 10,000 of them do it at the next game? That's our common problem. We are responsible and responsible, like people who deal with politics, for solving and solving this problem. But why is something forbidden at the stadium that is allowed at a political rally? That's also our problem. That's why we suggested, Mrs. Malovic, I don't know if you've been able to see at all, an amendment to Article 344 of the Criminal Code. By changing that member, you have practically defined sanctions for those who commit violence at the sports event, and we have extended that to public gatherings. You know, it's absolutely impossible to solve the problem of violence if we look at it in isolation. He only manifests himself in the stadium, and those who are involved in this violence come from other addresses, that violence is applied unpunished elsewhere. The Pride Parade will come again, but that can't be a police question. If you have bishops who show open impatience to it, if you have political parties that show impatience to it, if you have organisations that openly call for violence, then the police have nothing to do. Because the police can only act when there's violence. We need the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Social Policy, and then we need to see what we're going to do with local self-government. We in Belgrade are trying to affirm the idea of joint action on prevention, not sanctions. These sanctions have succeeded in societies that previously condemned violence as a form of action. It took Hazel to reject violence, and then those who refused those social conventions were easily sanctioned. There's no cop or director in the stadium who can stop 10,000 people from going into the field. So before society realized why it was wrong. We don't think it's good to ignore an open invitation to violence and violence outside the stadium and sanction something like that in the stadium. Paroles heard in stadiums are passwords that are practically lightmotive policies that have been dominant for the past 20 years in Serbia. In the stadium, it's punishable to scan "kill, slaughter, that Shiptar doesn't exist" and "knife, wire, Srebrenica" and that's what the police will have to sanction after this. But what about political gatherings that are organized and at which is something that is itself understood? We had a meeting in downtown Belgrade a year ago that led to an open conflict between citizens and police. The meeting was organised in support of the person charged with the most serious war crimes and who was arrested in accordance with the country's laws. None of the organizers of the meeting responded, and the participants of the meeting were those who moved after that to the stands. In the meantime, organisers realized how wrong it is and nowhere to go, so they don't want to deal with it anymore, but the consequences remained. It's easy for someone to change the name of the party overnight, but fans don't cross from the north to the south that easily. That's what we need to talk about, and that's what we need to do. As for the amendment of the law on the prevention of violence, we absolutely support it. It's practically a technical character. If the state has decided to deal with it, then everything needs to be done to make it effective in that fight. These measures, which are taken more or less, stem from some of the experiences of other countries that have gone through similar problems and cannot in itself be disputed. But we are interested in this Article 344 and the idea of violence being prevented in the stadium. We would like violence to be strongly condemned at every public gathering, of course, at sports gatherings, but also at each other, according to members of all other groups. Is it "The Women in Black", whether they are people who want to organize a Pride Parade, whether they are those who organise protests and demonstrations in Belgrade on behalf of the family, but we have to condemn violence as violence, and then its phenomenal forms to sanction in accordance with the weight and character, so somewhere there will be a need for a judge, that is, a case with a stadium, there is no need for a judge to be on a stand, but it must be clear to everyone that the state will be effective in order for this violence to be prevented. It's not the police's problem. If we bring that down to the police problem, we'll never get anywhere. It is much more a problem for those institutions of our society who have failed, who have completely ignored their function or who have been denied the right to take their jobs seriously, so that in the end we, as MPs, would get 18-year-olds who in their lives had no opportunity to live anything but a life of violence. Schools and school reform, the affirmation of professors, teachers, teachers, the affirmation of knowledge, the movement of the university to the center of our public life from the periphery on which it is located, and then understanding the importance of the church. We know we get together at the funeral, so we respect the church at Patriarch's funeral, but I'm not sure those who've been saying the church's name for the past 20 years have listened to their Patriarch during those 20 years. If Amphilochy can commit verbal violence against the part of our society, then why can't someone else do it, someone anonymous, a member of a cheerleading group or a right-wing organization or a party? That is what this is all about and we need to speak openly in order for these laws to be effective. As far as the administrative dispute law is concerned, it is a very important law, of fundamental importance to our society. We're practically learning a normal life now. People in this country have the right to react and seek the protection of their rights if they feel that they are injured by the decision of a local government body, an autonomous province, the Republic, and this law is in line with modern-organised states, societies, and that is what is in itself good. Unfortunately, it all fell down like this in the congregation, we all have 13 minutes to talk and we don't have a chance to convince the citizens of the importance of the decisions we make. This is how you, Mr. Dacic, will again be obliged to pay the bill for not reacting when taxi drivers block Belgrade. And when taxi drivers block Belgrade, you don't react. You didn't react even when the students blocked Belgrade. You didn't even react when the workers blocked the railroad. And since it's not on paper when it's allowed to block the international railway and when it's not, when it's allowed to block downtown Belgrade and when it's not, you can't be responsible for it. That must be the responsibility of those who are obliged to define what is right, so that they ask you for responsibility because you do not protect that order. But it's a topic for much more serious discussion and conversation. Because if the state shows inability to define order, and then your ministry to protect it, people will start taking care of the order themselves. And eight million people are eight million authentic experiences of order. That's what we need to change. When the minister shows up and supports the workers who block the track for ten days, then some taxi driver expects a new minister to show up tomorrow to support him, so students expect a third minister to show up and then we exercise our rights beyond the law and past the institutions, primarily counting on the state's weakness to respond to it. Thus, this weakness will be passed on to fans, so something will be allowed for the Star fans, not the Partisans fans, to be allowed to be "Vojvodine" fans, not the Rada fans, and then, together, it devises what should be the essence of our joint work, which is the modernisation of the state. You have support for something like that, and these are laws that have very little politics. There are a lot of policies when we deal with the consequences of the state's inability to ensure the application of these laws, and that's our common problem. When we think of everything we've been through, then we can't avoid the fact that irresponsible politics is the cause of all the problems we're facing right now and that we're trying to solve. Well, since that's the case, first we have to talk openly about politics as a cause, and then we have to show the way out of trouble and get these people out of this problem, show them some other place where they can get together and feel valuable and meaningful, except for the stadium and the stands where they're evened in rights and obligations, let's say, to the club. It's our common duty. If we do this duty, then we've all done a great job together. If you make a mistake, you will also narrow down our ability to succeed, for an important job will be compromised. In 2003 we proposed a law on the prevention of violence at sports events. In 2007, we also supported him. Then Minister Jocic defended the law, we said we wanted to do it together. And then we said the police couldn't solve this problem themselves, and now we're warning you. This is not just a police problem, this is a much wider problem, a problem that is exposed through violence in stadiums, and it's just not seen, and in all the other segments of our lives. Violence has become so pronounced at work, at school, in the family, in every segment of our lives, that it cannot be isolated only in stadiums and solved beyond anything else. The Fire Protection Act, the Emergency Law, requires new laws. You didn't say anything about that base in Nis, Mr. Dacic. It would be nice for you to tell us something about her, what it is, whether it's a platform for Russia's return and its military presence in this area ten years later or not, whether it's a leg in the door of NATO that started to open here, that is. The door to the past we want to close. That's also what you need to tell us. Of course, we want to have a safe country. Whoever can help us with that, help us. We are obliged to help others and they helped us, of course, to those who live with us in the region, but it must be clearly defined and you are obliged to do so, given that it is within the jurisdiction of your ministry. This is how the legal option remains in the law, but you didn't say anything about the first concrete attempt, and that's the base in Nis. The law on administrative dispute is necessary. The BIA Act - these are technical changes. I won't be able to say anything about these other laws until the end of my time. The law on real estate - you know very well what the problem is with that law. We can look for that kind of data that hasn't been requested yet, but how are we going to secure that? What's that gonna prove? What is that court scribe he asks for – give me proof that the apartment is not immobilized but in some kind of traffic, it will be able to verify it? Are computer systems functional, are they established, when they will be established? That's a serious problem. People buy apartments that are first sold who knows how many times. I think we also had to talk more about this. This shows the state's sense of one human's life problem, but it's all left to the side. We would like to support it, only if you gave us a little more facts on the basis of which we would be convinced that we support an effective and applicable law, not just a law that points to the need to solve a particular problem in our society. That's it. We will participate in the debate and we will be very happy to vote for these laws that I have spoken of, of course not on condition, but it would be good and desirable to give us more arguments for this support.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-21-0.u34407	The word has the People's MP Branko Ruzic, and after him Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-21-0.u34408	The Honorable Presidency, the first Deputy Prime Minister, the Honorable Minister of Justice, Mrs Malovic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this set of draft laws we have ahead of us is very important. The constructive remarks of some opposition MPs may also be justified, but the argument also suggests that it was very important for these laws to be passed within a time period clearly calendarly defined, because this must, practically, be completed by 31 December of this year. Of course, the first two laws, which are closely tied, which are the draft law on emergency situations and the draft law on fire protection, are the laws on which the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the RES, primarily the Ministry of Interior but also the Ministry of Defence, took steps in March of this year, when the conclusion was reached on the launch of this activity, and then the Action Plan for the establishment of a single emergency service within the Ministry of the Interior was adopted in September. Of course, the existing legislation is inadequate, since we know that the law on elemental disasters in 1977, the law that treats fire protection is from 1988 and not all of those capacities that can monitor these new circumstances and situations in which we, as a state, are within the scope of solving these problems. The very fact that the existing legislation is obsolete causes inertness and ambiguity in terms of jurisdiction, in relation to who is to treat these issues, and they are indeed vital (sometimes resulting in fatal outcomes). We have, unfortunately, had very nearly floods and fires, and it is quite clear that this integrated system of protection is necessary to not only match our regulatory and harmonised it with European standards, but also to protect both our citizens and material goods, and we are practically able to address these issues with full capacity. What is also the reason to adopt a new system approach is the imbalance created in climate change, not only with us but also in the world, and accelerated technical and technological development, which leads to new risks in this domain. It is therefore important that these two proposals of the law saw the light of the day, that they were very nuanced, were wisely prepared, that there was full co-operation between the rest of the ministries and that, above all, they were working on them, as the Minister of the Interior, the very professional people, who have been dealing with this problem for many years. Of course, the intensity of the law itself is that this system of protection and rescue is integrated, unique, to implement effective protection of citizens and material goods, and the MUP is given a very important role in this domain and in the matter of acts to be brought by the state or this home itself. The MUP proposes a draft national strategy for risk reduction, protection and rescue, as well as plans for long-term, medium-term and short-term plans in this domain, which are built per year for which these plans are made, so for ten, five and one year. It is also important for the MUP to supervise the application of this law and the work of those operators who may be the most risky in this domain. What is compatible and introduces us into correspondence and coordination with European standards is, in addition to being part of the system as before civil protection, primarily a significant formation of surveillance, intelligence and alarming services, which are made up of republican operational centres and the famous 112, which will be available to all citizens of our country and foreign citizens who are in our country's territory and are in some problem with these topics that we are considering today. What is also very important are the criminal provisions that this law treats and defines, which in my personal opinion should have a preventive function and that the instructions of those who violate these provisions should practically take a lot more into account what can be the outcome of irresponsible behaviour in the domain of dealings. Four are the most important effects of this emergency law. For the first time, a single emergency service is formed, which will greatly facilitate the neutralization of all the negative effects of what can result in natural disasters, fires or anything else that we face, practically, daily, as well as any other state. A clear place of local self-government and the president of municipalities in this domain is being established and defined. In earlier times, we were witnessing that it was difficult when we were hit by basic disasters, but fortunately, very quickly there was coordination between local self-government, the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of the Interior, which resolved all the damages that happened at the time. A new way of funding is being introduced. In addition to the budget of the Republic of Serbia, the budget of territorial autonomy and the budget of local self-government, we also have a budget for emergency situations, which will now be charged with the collection of penalties that those who are irresponsiblely treating this sphere of protection will receive. As far as the fire protection law is concerned, I said that the previous law was passed in 1988, that since then (of course, evolution is concerned) a lot of things have happened and that it is important that this law, along with the emergency law, be passed. The law itself affirms the principles of protection, prevention, continuity, continued work to protect against fire, strengthening public awareness, so that everything that, God forbid, can happen, inform the public, and that they affirm the principles of co-operation, both local and international, and affirm the principle of responsibility. The intensity of the application of this law is also the training of fire-saving and fire-fighting units and the creation of conditions that they can be more efficient in protecting people and material goods. It is also important for this law to define that the fire protection strategy is brought by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and that recovery plans are brought by fire protection entities, and the law is very clear and taxing on which they are subject to fire protection. The MUP performs very important tasks from the work cycle of its work on this plan, as does the Ministry of Defence, in accordance with the law and its position. As far as these two laws are concerned, of course, the SPS-JS parliamentary group will support this apparent effort to resolve one of these important issues, primarily by those who are professional, qualified and own, to bring a draft or a bill to the table, without entraping us to discuss this issue politically or to politicise it. As for the draft law of the judiciary, they are all, must be said, overneeded and also linked to certain deadlines and to some other legal proposals, and it is therefore important that they be adopted as well. It is likely that the greatest attention of citizens and of all who are interested in it is caused by the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Prevention of Violence and Misbehavior at sports events. We had this law in 2003, which was inaugurated in 2007, and it is evident that this is socially undesirable behavior, a monster that exists continuously in Serbian society, and that the state must deal with not in a simplified way, but in a systematic way, that will resolve this issue. This is why a systematic fight against violence is important, of course, at sports events and stadiums, but it is also important in every segment of social behavior so that this inappropriate behavior and violence in stadiums is practically a product of something that we have not paid attention to as a society elsewhere. It is important that the applicant's intensity is positive, that a more effective fight to break violence and hooliganism, which will be primarily effective and effective, but also important that the solution to this problem cannot be put exclusively on the shoulders of sports organisations, sports clubs and the MUP, because that would then be the wrong approach. It is therefore important that all the competent judicial authorities and the entire state and society and the government be involved, in order to adequately deal with this, so that we can put the fetish of going to sports events, games, so that the entire families can go there and feel safe and calm. I'm sure everyone here is a fan of some club. It's important to separate the army of fans, which is 90% or 95%, I'm sure, honest, honest sports lovers and the clubs they're rooting for, from the hooligans who make up some illegal and criminal acts for which they have to be sanctioned. So it's important to make sure that it's not just about treating the consequences here, but to figure out what's causing this and at sports sites, and to make a lot more of the bills about prevention, and not only to make this prevention a more stringent criminal policy, but to deal with this problem, as many more developed and modern societies have dealt with, which, despite being modern and developed, have minor and much more difficult problems in this area. As for the other points in this set of proposed laws, I have to point out a technical question that is really technical, which concerns the law on amendments and additions to the BIA Act. It treats a very sensitive issue, and it is therefore important not to allow a vacuum in which we will not know which court is competent to carry out some very sensitive activities, where it will practically deviate from the principle of non-violence of secret letters and other means of disclosure. That is why it is also important, in addition to what the opposition MPs have said, that certain amendments to the law are passed within a time period that will not allow such a vacuum to be created. Finally, the SPS, or the SPS-JS parliamentary group, will support all proposed laws from this set of dots, which may seem very numerous, but I think that if we don't want to politicise this topic, it's very easy and enough time to say what everyone thinks about these concrete legislative proposals.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-21-0.u34409	The People's MP Tomislav Nikolic has the word, and after him, MP Zeljko Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-21-0.u34410	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, the Law on the Prevention of Violence and Misbehavior at sports events, have caused the public's greatest attention, the rest are somehow being passed by him, and it is very important that everyone says honestly about this law not only what he thinks, but also how much he has contributed, by his or her actions or by the actions of his friends, by the actions of his political party, by running for cheap political points, to this situation. I wouldn't want it to be an impression after this session if it wasn't for the law, so it took some of his provisions to be amended to finally ensure that sports events were sports. Now let me tell you, Mr. Home Secretary, you can be proud of visa liberalisation because you've made a good passport form as long as you want, but until I can take my grandchildren to a sports event, until children in Serbia grow up with sports events, until they know more expensive sports competitions, until their idols are athletes who fight to achieve everything in their lives by their talent, training, better results, you'll be a completely unsuccessful minister. Not just you, I have nothing personal against you, I mean the service, the police, where the ministers change, and most employees participate in everything that happens to us. It's not the law so far, it's our behavior so far, politicians' behavior. In this Serbia, everything can be regulated if it's what politicians want and everything can be a mess if it's what politicians want. What's the matter with the bill so far? What's the big change besides making changes to talk about a law that's finally going to be arranged? And those changes themselves aren't good because they've gone too far. With those first, minor changes, the situation could be settled at sports events, I repeat, that you wanted and that there was no courting of cheerleading groups or who knows who doesn't. After all, give us a list of ministers, deputies, secretaries, members of political parties, especially the main committees, and what is called in club administrations, so I'll tell you who is most responsible for the situation in sports events. A month ago, I attended a sad scene. The Rada fans are going to a group game and a large group of cops are making sure they get to the stadium. They're gonna break in there, but it's important that they get there peacefully and safely, to stop traffic, that no one gets through as a group of respected fans pass by, who you now accuse of being drug dealers, that they are these, that they are them. What are the identified drug dealers doing in group fans, what are they doing out there? What are the kidnappers doing out there? When you need to help us or we need to help you pass this law, you warn us that among these groups of fans there are great criminals, great criminals. Well, other laws go after them. Someone can't be prevented from going into a sports event because he's a drug dealer. Even though he's a drug dealer, he can also behave peacefully at the game until he's arrested for dealing drugs. He's not a vandal in the stadium because he deals drugs. The drug dealer's hiding from the public, he's nowhere, he's doing it secretly. What's almost pointless about this bill now? Imagine changing Article 2. So far, the sports alliance, sports society, sports organization, the club has been obliged to exercise control over the implementation of the measures set out in this law, and now you deprive all clubs, all alliances and transfer it directly to the organizers. Now it may be that a group of fans of a club come to some pointless game playing in the stadium of their rivals, make a terrible blast there, and that stadium is banned for a year to use. The club wasn't responsible, and he couldn't even take action. He's only been punished because, ever since you started, not you, Mr. Minister, ever since DOS started changing these laws, the police have been completely excluded from all this. No more responsibility for the police, but if anyone pays the police, she will come to guard order and peace in the stadium. And he's an organizer. And how does the organizer keep it? We've seen a cop get into it. How does the organizer keep it? They're killing people. And who is this organizer who can provide it except for the police? Why do we keep the police out of our budget if there's no duty to secure peace at sports events? You're saying that under violence there's a physical accounting between the participants in the sports event. If you weren't a minister, if you had gone to a sports event and had been attacked by someone to beat you because you were rooting for another club, would you risk being in jail for defending yourself? Or is it better if you go to the hospital when someone hits you with a stick while you're covered over your head? How can both participants be guilty of a misdemeanor? What if someone was attacked and they had to defend themselves? You have here provided for the director the right to beat the people, and the citizen must not participate in the fight in which he defends his child because he was attacked and may have been trampled, beaten, turned over, because he is in a position to be watched by the judge on top and concluded that he is a participant and that he is equally guilty as the one who challenged or attacked him. You're saying that violence and misbehaving is the introduction to a sports object of markings that cause hatred or impatience that can lead to physical conflict. Every mark of one club causes hate among the fans of another club. It's okay to say that it's when they insult national, racial, religious traditions, but what does it mean to cause hate? When your opponent takes you 1 0, you hate him, you don't love him. If you develop your flags because you're leading, then you've caused hatred in people who lose by 1:0. Cheerleading can't be a cause of hate, and it can be a good reason for everyone to go to jail. Maybe it's best to take everyone to jail. We don't have any viewers at sports events anyway, because you weren't able to provide safety. Only in Serbia are all games played in front of an empty theatre. Just watch out for basketball, because they're high sentences from the EU, so don't let them get to any excess. There's no more paper on the ground. And to these home games, no one's going to the norm anymore. Goes who's ready to fight or whoever goes to the lodge, completely protected. He's taking risks of getting a lot of money and yelling there, and they're taking risks when you get inappropriate expressions that they've caused hate and that they can go to jail. It says - when performing physical security and maintaining order at a sports event, the director's office is obliged to ban, separate, secure, disable... How? To stand in front of a group of fans and say, "You can't go to the stadium?" What's causing that? They're fighting right now. They fight with the intervention police, how won't they fight with the director? They're gonna run him over, and you're gonna sacrifice him. In order for them to be convicted of a serious crime, he will suffer, for he is the officer. What law protects that director? Where are those companies you're talking about, dealing with some kind of security, regulated by the law? See how many people carry guns and automatic weapons on the streets of Belgrade dressed in some uniforms and driving some armored car. What law is it regulated by? What if they take a shot, what if they suspect someone's trying to take away that money they're guarding? What if they kill someone and even the one who tried to take the money? What service protects them? What kind of service did they perform? You say the officer is authorized to use physical force if otherwise he cannot refuse (you should have said no, not refused) an attack aimed at damage or destruction of property, assets or equipment. The attack directed – means not the attack that caused the damage, but can beat if he suspects that this one wants to break the glass. Who's that? Reddar. Passed training at the police department. But this is the most beautiful thing, he says -- at sports events of increased risk, the organiser is obliged to co-operate with fans' club representatives to exchange information with each other. Oh, right. Well, they're doing it now. They're now exchanging information. They now tell them where they left the firecrackers, in which order, under which seat, at which entrance. They're now exchanging information. Do you need information that the organizer will exchange with those against whom we are fighting this law? What kind of information providers are they to organize sports events? Now about turning sports facilities into prison. Excuse me, please. What's he supposed to do to secure the organizer? A suitable space for the on-call judge, the public prosecutor and the authorised person of the ministry responsible for maintaining public order and peace at the sports event, with which they have a clear overview of the sports field and theatre and access to equipment from point 7. of this attitude. The equipment -- it's that room, that prison, means the secret passageway that they have. Now I ask you, Mr. Minister, is the minister of justice gone – who is the judge who will attend the event to whom he will judge? Since when does a judge judge this based on personal insight into the event? Then it's not an impartial judge, then he doesn't listen to the one who sues and the one who defends himself, but carries his attitude. Can anyone who's a witness judge at any event? He can't, Mr. Minister. The judge can't attend that scene. The D.A.'s office is attending the game! Will he have binoculars? Will they have any videos, increased, where they'll identify faces? So if a cop brings in a face and says he was involved in a fight, the public prosecutor will say no, I watched, he didn't. Or he'll confirm. If he confirms it, what's he looking at? And then they'll all go to jail in the stadium. The room for the safe retention of participants in the sports event, which is misbehaved, as well as persons who are given the security measure, i.e. the safeguard measure of the ban on attending certain sports events and found at the sports facility. How can he get in when he's banned? Did he get away with it? Missed the police and security? At a mile away, you already have a restriction on economic operators to carry out their activities, not to sell alcohol at the store. He knows when there's a game. He knows how many facilities there are, in which school hall some sports game is being played. What if there's a wedding in the hotel somewhere? The guests will stop drinking four hours before the game, during the game and four hours after the game? Because that's what the legislator ordered. Because that facility, that restaurant, that hotel, that publishing room in the circle that's protected during the game. I've seen something else that even the school halls are involved in, but it doesn't matter. The time to prepare for discussions under these laws that you have put in one basket has indeed been extremely limited. On behalf of the SNS, I want to tell you that we are ready to co-operate fully, whatever law you need here, a good law, to be passed, to finally ensure that going to sports events is a trip, that as in developed democracies, families inherit a place in the stands, that it is a relic, that stadiums are full of January 1st of the current year, all cards are sold out. Then there are no tapcaros, no restrictions. A minor under 16 is not allowed into the stadium alone. Maybe he can drive that motorbike up to 50 cc's, and he can't get into the stadium. Well, then he can't just walk down the street. If a minor under the age of 16 can't go to the stadium alone, then he can't just cross the crosswalk. Why can't a minor just go to the stadium? At 16 he already has a girlfriend, and she has a boyfriend. But he can't go to a sports event, because that's what the law says. There's got to be some identification. Every time he buys a ticket to a sports event, he's got to have an I.D. on him. Can you be more strict? Let's see the results. Mr. Minister, after what time, if all this continues, will you resign? That doesn't make any sense anymore. How can I trust you to handle that when you ran into a political party reunion when a cop killed a man? How many are they gonna kill in the stadium? You'll justify it. It'll be easy for you to find. First, you won't find who it is, because it's the police protecting it, and secondly, you'll find an excuse -- a life in danger, they're hooligans, they're drug dealers. It would be better if you came to this congregation to ask for help to enforce the law, he was great. And the one before him was great. You're getting more rigid with normal people. Now everyone's afraid to get in the car, everyone's afraid to walk the streets because of the laws you've passed, which Serbia isn't prepared for. You're comparing yourself to Western Europe. You get off the highway only a mile or two while you're in some populated place, and here, Mr. Minister, when you go from Kragujevac to the King, if there's one truck in front of you, the whole column will go after him, because he's going between 60 and 80, that's maximum speed. No more crossovers. There's nothing left. You won't save any lives that way. Now the lunatics are going to cross the columns. So, you guys get Serbia ready for dragon measures. You won't need it at all. The dragon measures do not regulate Serbia. These aren't the last African tribes to eat people, so give them the strictest rule. Let's arrest him at the sports event. If he says "whoa Partizan" or "whoa Star," he's causing hate. This is a civilized people. You should treat this people civilised, like a government that is not from God, but from the people. He gave you the people of leverage in your hands to fight the people? The people won't take it. Think carefully about everything you do. Get your people out of the clubs. They don't belong there. Where politics gets involved in sports, it stops sports, beats money -- shopping, selling. And it's rare for you to have those in football who didn't do it. Come on, give me a club manager who didn't do it or someone from the administration who didn't agree to it. It's an important title or it's important to sell a player well. To the viewers no longer and no one thinks. Otherwise, how do these clubs live without any viewers? That maybe they don't deal with imports and exports as privileged entities? That they may not be allowed by members of the administration who are either in government or who make up the ruling majority in Serbia? Is it the source of all evil here in this congregation? Among ourselves who see and approve all things and choose who we are. You're no worse than me, I'm no better than you. Here someone who doesn't even want to think about himself, his own party, needs to think about the state. By the way, what kind of law is this going to be implemented by one minister who's rooting for Partizan and another who's rooting for the Star? Who's going to be more privileged than the caught fans? (President: 20 minutes) I'm done, I'm sorry. As far as we're concerned, the Democratic Party, its satellites, its useful partners have no support for anything. We're trying, seeing as you're preparing an emergency election, to beat you in these extraordinary elections, and that's why I don't think this law might even get to the point of changing power.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-21-0.u34411	The word is from MP Zeljko Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-21-0.u34412	The Honored Chairman, Honored Ministers and Associates, Honored fellow ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Government of the Republic of Serbia has already begun to give us new year's spells by reducing the incompatible points of the agenda. I didn't want to report to the Rules of Procedure, but I'm just going to take advantage of this time for the authorised representative of the DSS parliamentary group to remind you, and also for the viewers, for the sake of the citizens of Serbia, what you've done. You have, in fact, grouped the agenda into three groups, on average by eight or nine laws, somewhere and more, and in this group today we are talking at the same time about the draft law amending the BIA Act, regardless of how much technical changes are involved, irrelevant, the proposal for a law on the transport of immovableity and the confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the State of Israel on visa waiver for their citizens. Because of the citizens, it's worth showing something they don't have a chance to see, and we MPs here have -- it's a order of folk MPs who speak. Today, 20 MPs will speak in principle debate. It says here that 18 MPs are against, though, with a question mark, and two speakers will be in favour. However, the head of a parliamentary group has already said it will support laws that are on the agenda today, and it says here that his party will vote against. So much so that you don't know what you're doing, you don't even know how we messengers are going to behave. Furthermore, in the second group, you combined amendments to the Accounting and Audit Act with confirmation of Serbia and Slovenia's Social Insurance Agreement. Whether Mirko Cvetkovic, president of the Serbian government, will do something with this accounting law to those accountants who have blamed him for all of the DRI reports or not, whether he wants to deal with them -- I don't think 90% of the MPs have arrived to even look at the law, for reasons already mentioned so far. Or you choose judges for a three-year term in courts in such a morbid way that you even suggested a man from Pozega who died. It's just amazing. I am afraid that we, MPs on the one hand, and hopefully you, on the other hand, should join together, make a consensus and make a law on preventing the violence of the Government of the Republic of Serbia against the MPs. Because in this way we cannot properly prepare, nor can we properly discuss. Like my predecessor, I chose to talk the most about the Law on the Prevention of Violence at Sports Events, and my colleagues from the DSS Group will discuss these other points of the agenda both in principle and in the debate on amendments. This is the third time the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the Serbian Government has dealt with this topic. I think this is completely unnecessary law. Why? Don't let anyone get me wrong, just for the use of it. In fact, I was very happy to see, in front of us, the MPs here, two ministers -- the Minister of the Interior and the Minister of Justice, or the Ministry of Justice, but when I noticed that Mrs Malovic, the minister of justice, had explained this law, and not Mr Dacic, the Minister of the Interior, I realized that I would have to ask her some questions because she was an authorised representative. That's how I understood. However, she left the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia building, so you, Mr Dacic, will hopefully at least try to answer some questions. Just one remark, but a big one. Why is this law even being passed? Why hasn't the law been applied so far? Just that it was consistently applied. I'll give you a few examples, maybe from a little bit further past, not so close to the future, I'm not saying, but I'm talking about principle. Article 4 of the existing law states what is meant by violence and misbehavior, so it is said to throw on a sports field or a theater of objects that can endanger life, physical integrity of the face or property. You see, if it had been applied in the case of a high-ranking DS officer, when he threw a chair on the ground to some players he probably didn't like... That was the director of Parking Services. I forgot his name. Yes, Zika Angelkovic, that's right. The law could never apply to him. For political reasons? For what reason? Mr. Minister, you're a year and a half minister. Point 10) of the same member under violence and misbehavior is also considered to be an entry into a sports facility, i.e. the use of pyrotechnic means and other objects and means that may endanger the safety of participants in the sports event or interfere with its flow. What does that mean? Black on white - you can't use pyrotechnics at sports events. For your one-and-a-half-year term, how many torches have been lit in football stadiums and other sports halls across Serbia, and how many personalities just because the torch was lit? Watch out, just for the ignition. I'm not talking about pitching or anything. Simply, pyrotechnics, by law, must not be used in any way. But, you see, that's what we in society haven't taken care of, so then we're experiencing from the same sports commentator to say -- look how beautiful the atmosphere is in the stadium, hundreds of torches lit, beautiful ambience, so that just a few weeks after some incidents that happened in the meantime -- here, hooligans are lighting torches again. Is burning torch crime a violation of the law or not? Or is it one nice way to celebrate a certain victory or to introduce some cheerleading group? The law, unfortunately, says no pyrotechnics should be used. Thousands of torches in one and a half years, as long as you're a minister, are on fire. I'm telling you, all we have to do is apply the law. You have the freshest case, the police arrested a football club fan just because he sang a song of a certain content. I know for a fact that this man is not a criminal, he's not a drug dealer, he's not a killer, he's not a bandit, etc. He was just singing that song. Then why didn't you arrest all the players of the "Partizan" basketball club when a similar song, a very vulgar, very unpleasant content, sang in the celebration of victory over the "Efes Pilsen" from Turkey? What does that mean, some fan who sings some rough stuff should go to jail, and he's a top athlete and a good basketball player if he does the same thing? What's he protected by? The law isn't. Something else. Now, that's it. That's why Zika Angelkovic and others can feel more comfortable, and some others can't. We have submitted four amendments to this law, and that is, to make some unmovable proposals clearer and to tell you what it is. Article 4 is changed and it is said, in point 10) you are now adding something new, that under violence and misbehavior at sports events means wearing cheerleading jokes, hats or other objects in order to hide the identity of the person. Here, imagine a hypothetical situation, that tonight is what a beautiful, important football game is and that we four or five thousand go to that game. Well, we'd all be in jokes and hats. And how do you know if I want to hide an identity or just protect myself from the winter, from minus 20 or minus 10-15? We have proposed, by amendment, that it only reads: "hidden identity when attempting to cause disorder". Whether a successful or unsuccessful cause of disorder doesn't matter, but hiding identity during a riot, not "carrying cheerleading jokes, hats or other objects, in order to hide the identity of the person". By the time you find out what you're up to, it's gonna set fire to the whole hall, it's gonna bring down the stadium if... I'm a figure of speech. There's a lot of uncertainty. We didn't want to tear our hair into a few pieces, but in this last amendment, I have to admit that we made a little joke with the legislator of this law. That's what you'll hear from what I'm about to say. This is Article 13(1). You are changing the previous law and you are proposing that Article 18 reads: "It is forbidden to sell or consume alcoholic beverages in a sports facility and within a mile of it in Belgrade, Kragujevac, Nis and Novi Sad, and in other places up to 300 meters during the event." Not before and after. Now, dear citizens of Serbia, dear fans, dear visitors of sports events are finally allowed to drink before the game. It only says here during a sports event. Don't lie there. You didn't write it because of the events before the sports event, but because of what happens afterwards. You remember who drank all the champagne after one success of our football team. Now we've wiped out the applicable law to punish 'after', but we've wiped out the 'pre', so now the big cheerleading groups, the different 'alkantras' and 'belgraid boys' will be able to get drunk till they're ready before the game. During the match, the dead drunks will be able to do whatever their souls desire until the police of Minister Dacic have them kicked out of the stadium and present prosecutors and judges set sentences for them and so forth. To our amendment, we add item 2 which reads: "Consuming alcoholic beverages where the amount of alcohol does not exceed 12.5% per litre, in the three hours since the completion of the sports event is allowed exclusively in the closed rooms of the organizers of the sports event". Boris Tadic, drink freely, toast with everyone, with your colleagues. Here, we want our amendment to contribute and I hope you accept this amendment. There's no causing violence, it's just to celebrate something that needs to be toasted with a glass, I hope of valuable champagne, delicious and beautiful. We're not talking about sales, we're just talking about consumption. I repeat, it was only meant to apply the existing law, nothing more than that. A lot of objects were inserted into various sports halls, sports stadiums, a lot of pyrotechnics were burned, and all of this was illegal. No one has ever reacted. And now you think it's a dramatic and horrible case of the murder of a French fan just because he wore his cheerleader's shirt, which was killed in Belgrade in a disgusting way. Or do you think, based on the TV show of one researcher reporter, some things you've just cosmetically fixed, and you're basically nothing, you're back in line... In fact, you're not gonna bring him back because he's never even been to the stadiums. I've been on the stands for 30 years. At the first game I went to in my life, I found big riots. It was 1979, a red star derby Partizan. There were big street riots all day long. So don't represent hooliganism as something new. It's always been on football courts and gods all over Europe. I hope that as a society, we will be aware and find the strength and courage to deal with those who cause great problems. In addition to Mr Dacic, there are associates who also participated in the draft law in 2007. Nothing's changed much. The murder of fans has been in the past decades, both in the '70s and '80s and '90s and now in the '2000s. It's something that's going on. No one can justify that, but it just happens. You're not gonna stop it with laws like this. Not here in Serbia, nowhere. It's a phenomenon that only needs to be managed well, to contain it as much as possible, and to defeat hooliganism - it's the same as to win crime. Crime has always existed and will exist. I hope those reporters are doing a show on alleged murderers, drug dealers, etc. Those who don't end up in prison will no longer serve as perfidious and corrupt stories against political forces and parties that I don't know in which ways they'll see with their own existence. By the way, we all, as a society, get involved in the fight against hooliganism on sports grounds. That's where you'll always have DSS support. I will remind you how much our vice president and former Interior Minister Dragan Jocic fought against it and how much he suffered because of the way he fought the hooligans. Don't let me remind you of those morbid things he's been experiencing. But some journalists don't want researchers to remember that. They don't want former Minister of Education Slobodan Vuksanovic to remember, who had the strength to personally come to the stand among those most radical fans and follow the game with them, in order to make it all right. It's evidence that the DSS is supporting something like this anyway, but with simple cosmetic changes and phrases you won't achieve anything. Respect the law that exists. Vote this bill, but obey it. You really respect him. And let them pay for both athletes and politicians and murderers and anyone. The law must be the same for everyone.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-21-0.u34413	Do any of the other presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Velimir Ilic, then MP Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-21-0.u34414	Madam Chairman, gentlemen of the Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am very sorry that today will be remembered as the day when this government, which is currently in Serbia, has lost the assembly majority. When we look at all this, these laws that are in the process and today's adoption of the budget, we see that the government no longer has the support of political options that make up most of this Parliament. It is very ugly when we do not know which policy options are supported by a certain law, such as the Budget Law, and who is behind that law and who is responsible for this law. We can't work like this, to catch some free shooters in the hallway, MPs we don't know about, or who they are in parliament from, or who put them here to support the budget. And some laws like these will pass, and many laws will pass, such as the Statute of Vojvodina, will be completely unconstitutional, and an even bigger shame will come if the Constitutional Court confirms that it is constitutional, and we all know that it is against the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and many in the government, particularly ministers and the prime minister and president of the state stand behind such projects. Today, in a united debate, we have a set of 11 laws that have nothing to do with it. It is simply that someone has decided that in one debate, which will take place in the parliamentary groups as soon as possible, all of this is united in one political one, not to say legal chubby, which must be adopted. Those MPs who scold, come here, will simply vote in the package and Serbia will get some laws that will solve a problem more effectively. Every law that is passed is new hundreds of problems, new thousands of problems. That's how it's gonna be with these laws. Thousands of things have not been defined, and a law is passed that creates a problem for all of us, and we don't know how to overcome this problem. Here, we have listened to various debates here, which have already begun, and we will certainly hear the MPs say what they will say about all this, except what the heads of the parliamentary groups have said or authorized faces say, but I find it very ugly when I attend a debate where someone defines a sports resort as a high-risk place, as a life-threatening place. Please, we drive our kids into sports, we drive our youth into sports, we grow up in sports courts, terrains, sports halls, stands. These may be the best experiences of our lives, when we cheered and cheered. And we're proud of it. And now here's the sports resort, imagine, Star Stadium, Partizana Stadium -- a place dangerous to life. That is how it is defined, and special legal measures need to be taken to protect someone. There's been discrimination. Here, one of his colleagues spoke, imagine, a child can run a motorbike of up to 50 cc's, and can't go to a handball, basketball or soccer game in the neighborhood. He's got to be run by his mom. Well, how's a 16-year-old boy gonna feel? I have five children, I know the mentality of children perfectly. To be led by his mother, to sit next to him in the stands while he cheers for his beloved club? It doesn't have to be just football. Basketball, handball, karate, volleyball - it doesn't matter what they watch. And imagine now, mother's son, children will laugh. Or mom's daughter, they have to take mom and dad to take her and stand next to her, tip her toe to warn her how to cheer and how to behave. It's funny that parliament is discussing this. We have good laws, which should only have been applied. But I feel something else. I feel a great dissatisfaction in the people. And we want through these laws to intimidate Serbia, to stop gathering. Do you remember when the Statute of the Duke was brought in? Seven days before, there was a campaign that had not been gathered, that the flu was harassing, that people were dying, if more than five people were gathered -- disaster. That's what the state media talked about all the time. As soon as the law was passed, no one gathered, no protests, etc., immediately allowed the gatherings. Nobody talks about the flu anymore, nobody even mentions it anymore. Even this Miškovic vaccine now as it arrived, there is no need (and you see, no one is going to be vaccinated), no one is talking about it anymore, and before that - special shows, conversations, etc. A man took a good commission, did a good job for himself and his friends. Of course, we saw Tomica Milosavljevic the first one, the man turned his sleeve and then the story stopped. That's how it's gonna be about all of this. Someone doesn't want a reunion, they're afraid of the revolt of young people who can't get a job. And the solution for young people is work, pay, housing, so they can secure existence, start a family and cheer, go to games. But it is a revolt, a revolt against those who are incompetent, sitting down and not allowing people to organize themselves normally. The revolt is against everything that's going on right now and individuals tolerate it. It irritates me when the prime minister comes out and says, "This government works, a clean ten." I just have something in my head that's spinning and I'm saying, "Is he normal?" And so do many citizens. Well, it can never be a clean ten, even if it's the best government. There's no government that can do that. We're talking about measures, we're talking about 700,000 people feeding on the river, each ten Serbs feeding on the river. And that's a ten? That's zero, and you have to know that. We're talking about a relationship in sports. Who are these people making incidents? Give me your names and last names. We can't say that all Serbian youth goes, attacks, wars, that they're all hooligans and I don't know... When I hear the word "hooligan," I'm sick of it, believe me. So many young, so many friends and friends of my children, who are presently and in various competitions both in cities and in discotheques and everywhere, are decent children. He's got hooligans, but they're in the moss. I'm not accusing the current police minister, but it used to be. To the protests, gatherings were attended by hooligans, who worked for money, to make an incident to charge themselves tomorrow. They'll throw in for the hooligan money to spoil the game and suspend the stadium of a particular club. And that's what you do. That's what you do today. We wonder if two MPs from some political parties, who voted today, have been sent by these parties to vote for the budget and the parties smiled and they cashed it out, or have they done it on their own initiative. It's a question of investigative organs. How can people say - let's go, that's our...? How do councilmen around the cities do the same? How is that tolerated? It's the most dangerous way of bribery, corruption, etc. We wonder who tolerates some laws that are applicable in practice, and now we'll bring new ones. Who tolerates one man in Braničevsky County, who has two slaughterhouses, who went and the poor peasants in the villages of Braničevski County and cheated across Serbia, took their cattle for slaughter? Only one peasant has cheated 51,000 euros. He gave them receipts, translated everything into someone, and he's got nothing. He's got all the capital you want, but in front of the judiciary, he's naked, he doesn't have the bread to eat. And a court ruling cannot be executed, to charge more than 2m euros in farmers from three or four villages who gave cattle. He still cheats on the people of Serbia, and in the judiciary they say - yes, the verdicts are executed, but they are inexecutable, there is no man. And he's got what you want, fairies, cars, trucks. Imagine, it's got a million-and-a-half-euro slaughterhouse. It doesn't occur to anyone to say, man, stop cheating on the people. To bring him in, to arrest him, to take away that property, to sell and pay off those who have been deceived. The verdicts are executive, but they can't be charged because a man has nothing of his own. How can a man who doesn't have a dinar do business, who has nothing? How can he be allowed to knowingly deceive the people? Now, back to these riots at sports competitions. How can a club that barely survive, which cannot survive, pay for a redistributive service that is expensive, which is thousands of euros for a single contest? From what means? In what way? How can a sergeant, a goalie, stop there, if a stadium is filled tomorrow, a crowd of fans? That's what the police have to do. The police have been paid for it and are obliged to do it correctly. We can't protect an individual like a white bear now. We just find one, focus and protect it, we all protect it (not to mention now who, the whole state is talking about it). And no one else is protected. You can beat the other one and nobody's answering. Even someone might be rewarded. And maybe someone did it for the money. Therefore, someone will suffer severe injuries, someone will end up dead and nothing will happen, but we will focus someone and constantly show the public how damaged a man is. I remember perfectly well, a General or Air Force Colonel was beaten in Kralje. He got beat up by cops like a cat because he stood up to a cop and said he wouldn't leave a place. By the time they found out, it all went on, and the man was mutilated. I think his last name is Kupreshan, General or Colonel of the Air Force. After the apology fell, it was all in order, but the man was beaten. Why? Because he stood up to some injustice. And someone there, who was then suspended... Well, I'm the one who beat him up, because I was a random participant, and now I've seen it recently in security with the President of the Republic. Now he's in the security of the President of the Republic. We can check it out. However, this Kupreshan is alive and well, I think he may be listening to me, but the one who beat and broke a man, I recently saw in a event (I don't think I was wrong) – an adventured man. What's going on here now? Do we, through these laws, want to protect some, free some of our responsibilities? Now we're talking about emergency protection measures here and we're passing the law. That is good, but some who have done damage to Serbia and who have not preventably eliminated certain causes of major elemental disasters, and have taken large amounts of money and spent, do not respond. How are we going to look now at Mr Pitiæ, who spent the money that was intended for large capital investments in Vojvodina with the Capital Fund of Vojvodina? For example, flood protection. The money was spent, the protection wasn't done. Now we're gonna do it again. I once made Yasa Tomic, gentlemen, and many villages, but now the money is spent in the election campaign, and the rivers are not arranged again. There's big snow, there's gonna be a flood again. Who's going to answer for what business hasn't been done and the money's spent? I remember perfectly well that some government has transferred because the Dukes insisted that it is now not Serbia but that it can do the Capital Fund of Vojvodina. I remember perfectly well that the funds were withdrawn for the recovery of the Pančeva Bridge and said -- that's in Vojvodina, and transferred to the Capital Fund of Vojvodina. The Pančeva Bridge is said to be on the edge of the collapse, that if high water stops occur, large water strikes in the bridge pillars, etc., are threatened by corrosion and all that. The money was spent, the bridge was unscheduled. The rise was a big story - the bridge is compromised, it's falling. A gazelle threatened, also spent money. The credit line is untapped, spent, and the job isn't done. And who's going to answer for that? About no one. Do you remember billions of damage to Serbia causing the city to fly over the plane? It has been said that we will move on to a new system of anti-building protection and that is what the funds are defined for. It has been said that the Army has planes that are free and that modern anti-building protection can be carried out. And? It's not still done because of the overflight, and the city is destroying the roofs, breaking the cracks. I used to run these protection measures in the government. What were we doing? We've been doing billions for these damages that are going on. Now nobody's doing anything to prevent it from working in these cases. The other night we're watching the show, I think it was called "Monitor." The peasant says he lost a sheep on a bridge in Raca. I, as a minister, built a bridge in Raca, but they weren't on the road and the bridge wasn't released. Why? The directive has come to ask the Vojvodina Capital Fund to transfer the money to end it, because it is Srem and cannot end the Serbian government's bridge, but must be the Vojvodina, because it is in Srem. Of course, the money was spent and the bridge wasn't finished. Is it a shame for this Serbia that the bridge, fully built and built, is not being put into traffic because there are no overruns on the happy side? The money is spent, the wagons aren't done and we're going to the bridge that's completely hollow and that threatens the safety of the citizens. And tomorrow, if it goes down, there's a big waterhole on Savi, who's gonna pay you for it? I remember perfectly well, I warned a high-ranking official of the current government that a guard tunnel would be derailed, when it worked, that there would be damage, when the NIP funds stopped to be paid, and that they would be dead. Two workers died three days later. There's a record, you can check it out. We're not doing anything preventive. It's only when it happens, then it's a joke, it's a noise, we run. Is it removed, I ask the Minister of the Army, that warehouse at Paracino's? It wasn't removed, and it was said that it had to be moved immediately because it threatened traffic. The damages only occurred when the highway was closed for days, when traffic shifted to local roads that were completely broken down, etc. And a series of other things that don't go away. Not to talk about the rinks, not to talk about the noise that happens every year. Every year in Vlasotanc, a word floods the same house and every year helps people and repairs their homes. Every year these people have great damages, and it only takes 500 meters of embankment. I worked and did one 80%. But it's not worth it, when you don't finish two meters, you have a flood, too. The job has to be done because the water will break through and flood the same settlement again. How can we now talk about protection measures if we do not prevent something that is repeated every year and brings millions of damages? And don't let me count on it. Therefore, please respect existing laws. How is it possible, gentlemen of the Ministers, to burn down a hospital that was recently reconstructed and to burn down an installation that was several months old? How is that possible? I know there was a World Bank in the vision because they were at my place (President: Time). ..and we talked, to see where that equipment they put it in. It's just, I doubt it...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-21-0.u34415	It's been 20 minutes. Thank you. National MP Aleksandar Martinovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-21-0.u34416	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, unlike my colleagues, I will talk about a bill that is far less attractive in political and social terms, but certainly not the least important. It's about the draft law on administrative disputes. I have only one brief review of the bill on amendments and additions to the Law on the Prevention of Violence at Sports Events. Namely, I would like to inform Mr. Minister that a young man from Arangelovac, Ivan Ivanovic, is being led by a real media hack. He teaches and teaches in five elementary schools in Arangelovac. He was part of that famous Insider show. It's not about any hooligan or any criminal. It is about a young, national-aware man, who publicly admitted in front of cameras that he loves both Serbia and Ratko Mladic and Radovan Karadzic, but believes that this is why he should not be placed on a pillar of shame. These days, schools in Arangelovac, where he teaches religion, are under pressure to drive this young man out into the street, so please, government gentlemen, since you are against violence, to prevent this kind of mental, political violence against Serbian citizens who only publicly express their opinion. As far as the draft law on administrative disputes is concerned, the draft law was done in 2004, according to information from the SRS. Since 2004, to date, the law has largely been based on the drawers of various ministers who have been trading in the portfolio for the state administration and local self-government. We expected that in those five years this bill would experience some positive changes compared to that document that was still in the draft phase. Unfortunately, that didn't happen. The draft law on administrative disputes is an extremely important act. The law on administrative disputes is one of those so-called so-called administrative disputes. procedural laws. It has the same meaning as the Law on Prosecution, as the Law on Criminal Procedure, as the Law on General Administrative Procedure and, at the very least, it is incorrect that this important law, and every procedural law directly entangles human rights and freedoms, is conveyed to MPs in secret, several hours before the beginning of the glory of St. Nicholas, on Friday night, when all MPs went home, and already today the law is spoken of in the National Assembly. Mr. Minister, I will address you, I will be so free, because I believe you are the most competent to speak of this law. First, it's unclear why the law is called what it's called. It's called - the law on administrative disputes. Therefore, the term of administrative dispute is used in plural, and in all other provisions of the bill administrative dispute is used in one. Is it not logical, then, in a nomotechnical sense, that the bill is called the draft law on administrative dispute? Furthermore, in Article 2, you say, "In the administrative dispute, the court decides on the basis of the law and within a reasonable period, on the basis of the facts set out in the oral public debate." A standard like this, Mr. Minister, is missing for at least two reasons. First, a reasonable term, as a legal standard in practice, is a very flexible term and can mean different things, depending on who the law applies. A typical example to which a reasonable period can be used in practice is precisely the case of Vojislav Seselj. The Hague tribunal is obliged to judge within a reasonable period of time, and the reasonable deadline in the Vojislav Seselj case is already seven years. You don't have to be a lawyer, it's clear that a reasonable deadline has been exceeded long ago. What right has a man to whose harm this is happening? He doesn't have any rights. If you wanted, Mr. Minister, for the Administrative Court to act effectively, to act quickly, then you had to set a deadline within which the Administrative Court is required to deliver a verdict. In one of our amendments, we have suggested that it be 90 days from the day of filing an orderly suit. And then it's clear to everyone - 90 days is 90 days. It's neither reasonable nor unreasonable. It's just a fixed deadline. Everyone knows when the deadline starts and when the deadline ends. And that's how you get that administrative court, which should start working from January 1st, to act effectively. Then you say, 'on the basis of the facts found in the oral public debate', and in article 33, you standard cases where oral public debate is not mandatory. That doesn't make sense. Therefore, it should not be stated here that the court decides on the basis of the facts set out in the public debate, but on the basis of the facts set out in the course of the proceedings. So, in some cases, it's going to be in the debate, and in some other cases, it's going to be out of debate. In Article 3, you say the subject of a administrative dispute is the legality of a final administrative act, and we agree on that. Then in paragraph 2 and point 3 you define some cases similar to the administrative act, some acts that have a lot in common with the administrative act, but are not administrative acts. These are final individual acts which are resolved on the rights and obligations of natural and legal persons. Now the only question is, why did you not explicitly write that individual legal acts that do not have the character of the administrative act are at stake? Why am I telling you this? To form a uniform court practice. Now, Mr. Minister, you have cases where different courts treat these individual acts that are close to the administrative act but are not administrative acts. Let's say, these are election acts, i.e. a function. For some courts it's administrative acts, for some courts it's not administrative acts. The point of the legal theory is that it's not actually administrative acts. But then, in order to have a uniform caselaw, it was necessary to write in the bill that it was individual legal acts that decided on the rights and obligations of legal entities, but that they did not have the character of the administrative act. And then in practice there is no dilemma about whether or not such an act is an administrative act. You, for reasons unknown to me, have failed to do so. In Article 4, you define the concept of an administrative act. You will agree with me, Mr. Minister, that this is a bit unusual, because administrative acts are not adopted by the procedure prescribed by this law, but by the procedure prescribed by the General Administrative Procedure Act. If there was room for a definition of administrative act, I guess by law by which administrative acts are adopted, then in the General Administrative Procedure Act. Okay, you've defined that the definition of administrative act is given in the Law on Administrative Disputes. This has been the case so far, according to the 1996 law. But that definition from 1996 was much clearer and more precise than this one. Now look at how you define an administrative act: ''The administrative act, within the meaning of this law, is a legal individual act by which the competent authority, by direct application of the rules, decides on a specific right or obligation of a natural, legal or other rightholder and obligations which are resolved in the administrative procedure, which does not have the capacity of a legal or natural person in the administrative matter'. I doubt it, Mr. Minister, you can repeat this definition. She is to this extent obnoxious and vague that without looking at the text of the law, no one can do it. And I remind you that this definition, at the very least, will have to be taught by students at law schools, will have to be taught by those who are preparing to pass a judicial exam, the students of your famous judicial academy. Let Chik repeat the definition of the administrative act, which is one of the most important definitions in the area of law. We have proposed to you one much simpler and easier, and the same exact definition is: 'The administrative act, in the sense of this law, is an individual legal act whereby the competent authority of the public authority, by direct application of the rules, decides on a certain right or obligation of a natural or legal person, or another party in the administrative matter'. Everything you said in article 4, we say, but in a way that is far closer to those who need to apply this law. In Article 5, you define again one concept that is important for both theory and court practice, which is the concept of administrative matters: "The administrative matter, in the sense of this law, is an individual indisputable situation of public interest, in which directly from the legal rules arises the need for authoritative regulation in accordance with the law". This definition, Mr. Minister, is contradictory, because you say it's a situation that is individual, and it has to be authoritatively arranged. When you're editing something, it's a general situation, then it's a normative act, then it's not about the individual situation, and then you shouldn't say, authoritative legal arrangements, but -- authoritative legal decisions. That's two completely different things. Then there's a provision, Mr. Minister, that's really amazing to me. In Article 6. The draft law you define what is meant by the competent authority. Be careful now what the authorities are for you: state authorities, autonomous province authorities, local self-government units, companies, public and other enterprises, institutions, organisations and - listen well, you who will apply this law - individuals, as well as special authorities, when they solve public powers in administrative matters. I can love or not love this government as much as I want, but Mr. Minister, in what democratic society are public authorities considered individuals? In what situations will individuals, so natural persons, citizens, be able to bring administrative acts? Where's that? This is a precedent. This one has absolutely nothing, in any country, in any legal system in the world. You have to delete this. This is a disgrace that no one who has ever participated in the creation of this law will be able to wash off. In Article 7, Mr. Minister, there's a counter-constitution. You're saying against the verdict reached in the administrative dispute there's no appeal to be made. That's what you wrote. I remind you of what it says in Article 36. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, item 2: "Every one has the right to appeal or another remedy against a decision which decides on his right, obligation or law-based interest." It is a fundamental matter in any procedural law that anyone participating in the proceedings has the right to make a complaint. How else can he protect his rights than through a complaint? The Constitution guarantees the right to appeal. The right to appeal is guaranteed by all democratic constitutions in the world. However, in the law of administrative disputes, this right to appeal is denied. Then you have a member of 22, Mr. Minister. Of course, because of the shortness of time, I can't talk about all the anomalies in this proposal, but I'm only going to look back at some of the most eyed. Article 22 paragraph 1 - The action must contain the name and last name, address and place of residence. Explain to me, Mr. Minister, what's the difference between the address and the place of residence? As far as I know, the address means the place where a man lives, the street where he lives and the home number. I guess that's the address. You say - it should contain the address and place of residence. Explain to me where the address ends and where the place starts and vice versa. It's just not possible. In Article 23, paragraph 2, you say this - at the request of the prosecutor, the court may postpone the execution of a final administrative act which has been metrically decided in the administrative matter. Mr. Minister, every final administrative act is a decision that has been metrically decided. There are no administrative acts which have been metrically decided and administrative acts which have not been metrically decided. Unnecessarily, you are burdening the text of the bill with the words that apply. As soon as a single act is final, as soon as it is an administrative act, of course it solves something metrically. So this "which is metrically decided in the administrative matter" isn't what you need. I don't know who told you to put it in the bill, but you really don't need it. In Article 23(3), you say - an exceptional party from the administrative procedure may request the court to postpone the execution of the administrative act and before filing an action, and under point 1) - in case of urgency. What does that mean? This can in practice cause very large abuses. In one situation, the court will say - this is an emergency, this is not an emergency. Emergency for who? For the party, for the authority that passed the administrative act, for the court, for the interested person? From what aspect is the concept of urgency interpreted? You have to delete this, because this can really, in practice, lead to great harm and great abuse. Article 24(2) This is a really amazing thing. I've tried really hard to get into the depths of this law, but believe me, some things here or I don't understand, or they're so complicated that I, as not a very smart man, can't understand it. "The case can also be filed for the purpose of establishing that the defendant has repeated his earlier act which has already been annulled by the verdict, as well as for establishing the illegality of the act brought without legal fact." It seems, Mr. Minister, that we have not studied under the same legal regime. I haven't heard anywhere, believe me, for four years of law school studies, there are administrative acts that don't have legal facts. Such legal acts do not exist. Just because an act is a legal act, regardless of whether it's administrative, it has some legal fact. There are no administrative acts and there are no legal acts without legal fact at all. So this is absolutely impossible to happen. Then you say - a lawsuit may be filed to determine that the defendant has repeated his earlier act, which has already been annulled by a verdict. That, Minister, can't, because you wrote in article 7. The bill - the verdict reached in the administrative dispute is binding. It can't happen. It is simply that the law eliminates such an opportunity for the administrative court to annul an administrative act, so that the authority which has adopted the repealed administrative act practically adopts an act in the same content. You eliminated that in article 7, when you said the verdict was binding. Now the question is, why are you norming something that can't happen? You have the principle of right of Rome to define what is right, not what does not exist. And you define what can't happen in practice either theoretically or practically. In Article 25, paragraph 1, you say this - if the lawsuit is incomplete or incomprehensible, the judge will call on the prosecutor, watch this - directly or through another court. Through which court, when the administrative disputes in the first degree are tried by the Administrative Court, one administrative court for the territory of the entire Republic? We haven't adopted a system by which we have more administrative courts than a single administrative court. How is this one administrative court going to ask another court? There's no other administrative court. Maybe you were thinking about legal aid, so you could ask another court? That's not possible, because the Administrative Court is a special jurisdictional court. How will the Administrative Court now ask the Main Court in kickinda to do something or not to do when they judge completely different disputes? So this "through the second court" is legal nonses and you have to delete this, Mr. Minister, from the bill. This is all saying that the law was done in a hurry, that it was done quite sloppyly and that you look a lot and don't care what the quality of the law is, but -- let's bring it in, what do we care how the one who's going to have to apply it to his head tomorrow? This is an example of a banana, but it shows how sloppy you were. In Article 29, paragraph 1, you say this - if the defendants are sued during the trial... Watch out, during court proceedings! I guess it's an elemental thing, it's what students learn, the court procedure is a set of procedural actions that are going on, they're being replaced by each other. I guess the basic thing to say is, if the defendant does something or doesn't do something during court proceedings, not during court proceedings. The Legislative Committee, as far as I'm aware, is now working on a unique methodological rule for law making. It says right here how terms should be used. So instead of this 'time', use the standard term - during the process. Unfortunately, I don't have much time yet, but here's Mr. Minister, another big weakness. In Article 49, be careful, you provide for a request for a review of the court's ruling. Who can stand it? The party and the district attorney. And in article 50, how can you stand it? He says the motion is handed over to the Supreme Cassation Court, through the power of attorney. This is the opposite of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Anyone can decide on their own how to participate in some procedure, whether I am or will hire a lawyer. There's an even greater weakness in the bill when you say that a public prosecutor has to hire a law enforcement attorney. In what country in the world does the state authority have to hire a private person to apply for a review of a court ruling? It's nowhere to be found, Mr. Minister, in the world. If this law is read by one of your EU friends, they'll laugh. But not just you, they'll laugh at the National Assembly. There is no state in the EU where a public prosecutor asks a lawyer – go and submit a request for a review of the court's decision. What does that mean? Yes, the public prosecutor is legally illiterate, that he doesn't know how to make a request and who to turn himself in. This is, of course, counter-constitutional and from the point of view of physical faces. Why, say, you, Mr. Minister, as a graduate attorney, tomorrow, if you find yourself in a situation to apply, couldn't you do it on your own? What's the problem with writing a request and handing it over to the Supreme Cassation Court? As if that's what it takes, I don't know what kind of knowledge. No, now you're obliging both natural and legal persons to have to hire a lawyer. Of course, this is just one set of remarks we have on (President: Time). ) The draft law on administrative disputes, and because of all this, we will not be able to vote for this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-21-0.u34417	Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, they are in accordance with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, pending the opening of a search for a word in writing with the order of MPs, submitted parliamentary groups: the SPS-JS, "New Serbia", LDP, "Forward, Serbia", DSS - Vojislav Kostunica and the SRS. The People's Messenger, George Milicevic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-21-0.u34418	The Honorable Madam Chairman, respected ministers, respected representatives of the government, is ahead of us a set of 11 extremely important legislative proposals. At the very beginning, I would like to point out once again that, among other things, the SPS-JS parliamentary group in the voting day will support all 11 legislative proposals. In my presentation, I will bear in mind, first of all, the time available for the SPS-JS Parliament Club. Bearing in mind that a fellow member of the parliamentary club will speak in the follow-up of the debate in principle, I will put the accent in my presentation on two legislative proposals - a draft law on emergency situations and a proposal for a law on fire protection. Of course, as already said, we support the proposal's intention to regulate and regulate an extremely important area, which has so far been regulated by a 32-year-old law. This intention of the state certainly represents a new stage, stage or time in which the state is being put in a responsible manner towards this issue, so that citizens of the Republic of Serbia first feel it. Of course, I also mean protecting the lives of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, but also protecting their property. I also want to say that I am convinced that the chosen one is, in fact, the best and the right way to come up with such a quality legislative proposal, through a broad public debate that lasted, it seems to me, 30 days or a month, a public debate involving local self-government representatives, i.e. economic operators and representatives of the non-governmental sector, which is also of paramount importance. The adoption of this legislative proposal will certainly give Serbia a modern law, which will be a faster and more effective response to emergency situations and which will be a guarantee of better and more effective security for citizens. Otherwise, as we could hear, the implementation of this law is, once again, a condition for Serbia to continue the path of European integration, i.e. a precondition for Serbia to join the EU. Of course, we also support the essential goal of adopting this legislative proposal, to establish a single emergency response system throughout the country, because it is the only way to respond in time and time and to save human lives both material and cultural goods. It is only possible to do so by implementing the measures in which all available forces must participate, whatever we have. When the services are united, the state's reaction will be far more effective both in the event of floods and in the event of fires and earthquakes and other accidents. So it is already said in the opening statements that European and world standards in this area rest on decentralised action. The adoption of this legislative proposal introduces these standards, i.e. an integrated central authority, and transfers of competences to local self-governments, which become a key factor in this extremely important business. What is essential and achieved by adopting this law is to establish a strong link between the emergency sector, as a service that for the first time unites all the forces of the Republic of Serbia, so one, as I have already said, has been created, an integrated system of protection for citizens in emergency situations, and its strong link with local self-government has been established. I'm convinced it's the only real way to function in emergency situations. After the adoption of this law, local self-government will be a very important, very important segment, i.e. emergency organisation service. Of course, according to the law, cities, as we could hear, will have defined responsibilities and powers when it comes to managing emergency situations, and mayors and municipal presidents will be given a defined role by this law, but it is understood that they must include all local self-government, public enterprises, economic operators, etc. This law will actually be given, as far as I could understand, the framework and obligations, and local self-government will subsequently specify the law depending on its characteristics. These laws make citizens, different associations, private and public enterprises, so they all become part of the system and are the most important users, which is also of great importance. Certainly, the biggest job comes after the adoption of this legislative proposal, which is the practical establishment of this very important and very important system. I think that we can all agree on the conclusion and the view that this law is really necessary for our country, so that, as a country, we can give a unique answer when it comes to emergency situations, not that it seems like in the past period of time, depending on the case to the case, from local self-government to local self-government, from the middle to the middle, from town to town. The SPS-JS parliamentary group will support this legislative proposal, as well as a draft fire protection law, as we want Serbia to get a more effective protection system from next year, which will improve both economic security and stability in Serbia. As far as the Fire Protection Bill is concerned, I will say very briefly at the very end, it is quite clear that this legislative proposal solves the issue of fire protection in a much better way, introduces new fire protection modes, which did not exist before, and after 21 years, there is finally order in this area. Finally, I want to point out once again clearly and precisely – we need an integrated system, which will provide all services dealing with the mentioned problem, so that existing resources, what we have as a state, can be used for this purpose and in a more efficient and rational way.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-21-0.u34419	The word is from the MP Srdjan Spasojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-21-0.u34420	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, the Honorable President of the National Assembly, I would like before the discussion (if you did not include me in the time) to advertise the Rules of Procedure, Rule 87, because none of the members of the Government are present. Given the extremely short time we have to explain the different laws, I'd like you to take a break.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-21-0.u34421	Keep working. Ministerial associates are here, and the ministers are in the building. They're on a short deal right now, and they'll be back soon.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-21-0.u34422	Okay, speaking of which, then I would like to say to the citizens of Serbia that today we have before us the draft laws that are completely incompatible, that in several situations representatives of parliamentary groups have pointed out, that it might be logical that these laws on litigation, administrative disputes and criminally united with those who will apply the holders of judicial functions that have been elected. It seems to me right now that this law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Prevention of Violence and misbehaving in sports events is to be found here, along with this set of laws on administration, violations and criminal law, to show how preventive it should be to act - if you do not act on them, you will be severely punished. I'm not sure this law will have adequate application, that tightening the criminal policy will make some kind of general prevention. I think that general prevention is being taken seriously in society, by making adequate conditions for all those people who come to the sports resorts so they can cheer for their teams who might someday run out on an international stage. I'm sure in these situations these people won't apply violence. Of course, if all these people are hired, hired, if they have their own families, they will certainly refrain from any violence, and these dragon penalties may make these people even more irritable to make everything counterproductive. I'll just tell you the King's example. The royal city is a rich sports tradition. The "Ribnica" volleyball players in that former Yugoslavia were also winners of the Cup of Cups, and at the moment they are playing international games outside the Kings because the sports hall has no conditions for European standards. Is that irritated by the "Ribnice" fans who arrived at the former country's final destinations? Will the fans of the royal basketball players, the Machine and the Syllabics, irritate the fact that next year they won't be able to play home games because the King doesn't have a gym that will satisfy the conditions? Does the city's water polo on Ibra irritate the fact that they've been in the first league for years, and there's no closed pool? Does footballers and fans of the royal Syllabics irritate the fact that the status of the Syllabic Stadium is practically unsettled? Gentlemen of the ruling coalition, in order to apply some law, to ask people, citizens, fans to be fit, provide conditions. You know, it's really ugly when you make some cages at the game, or some bars, and you put people in there who are going to cheer. They were already, in that moment, practically, irritated to behave like that. I'll tell you one more thing about the King's sport. For years fans came from those former republics, where there were certain national hatreds, etc., but never fans in the King made any incidents, but these people, if they won honestly and showed quality, were eventually rewarded with applause. The king was known for it. My message, since I have very little time, is that the government should provide conditions. When I talk about the King, I also talk about many cities in Serbia that also have no conditions for sports events. First, general prevention is done that way. The laws that the state is making may well be the time to do something like this, but surely with the dragon's punishments you've predicted, you won't achieve much. Given the very short time, we will talk more about these legal laws when it comes to the third item of the agenda, because I want to leave time for my colleague, Aleksandra Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-21-0.u34423	The word is by MP Zoran Kasalovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-21-0.u34424	Dear Presidents, honourable representatives of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I want to talk about the objective and importance, through some concrete and personal experience in emergency situations, two draft laws - a draft law on emergency situations and a draft law on fire protection. First of all, the aim of the law is, specifically, to protect human lives and material goods, respecting the fact that the need to avoid catastrophic consequences through risk reduction and preparedness for preventive action. This already speaks sufficiently of how important these two bill proposals are, especially if we add the current situation to this, that this area and matter regulate the laws of the late 1970s and 1980s, which is why the responsibility of the resolution authorities is really shared, i.e. we don't know exactly who and at what point should be doing it. I want to speak specifically about the experiences that had municipalities from Banat Sečanj and the Citište with repairs from 2000 and 2005, when the waterway was at a level that happens once in a hundred years. I am sure that through public debate the Ministry of Interior heard the experiences of municipalities, i.e. local self-government and all other organisations involved and familiarised with this matter, and that it has therefore made such a good bill. However, let me present some of my experiences and observations. Indeed, in 2005, we had a water supply that happens once in a hundred years. The specificity of this part of Banata is reflected in the fact that it is located downriver in relation to the state of Romania, and this requires dependence and good co-operation with neighbours from Romania. What was quite clear already at the very beginning is that he felt the lack of a unique and synchronised fact in those moments, and what was also the basic objective of the proposal of these two laws, above all of this emergency law, because in those moments, when he could rule and panic, he really didn't know the exact address for the unique action, which caused the lack of a timely fact. It's been a matter of minutes and hours, and now it's a general impression that if there was a timely fact, it wouldn't have happened if the water had penetrated the inhabited areas. In particular, to flood one third of the village in Međa, to tear down 40 houses and so many others for recovery, and to flood more than 3,000 hectares of fertile land. In addition, if the lack of capacity of municipalities, such as Citište and Sječanj, remains that in those moments the sacrifice of citizens and solidarity with the citizens of Međa and Jaša Tomic contribute to avoiding human victims and then killing cattle. So it's obvious that certain improvisations happen in those moments. It can be critical, and it can be fatal, when you don't know exactly who needs to do what under the conditions of danger. It has happened that certain authorities claim that channels should be dug, and citizens have, by contrast, advocated that they are not opening but closing. These are all the consequences when you haven't regulated a timely fact in those moments. Of course, the first wave was followed by the reaction of all organs and the synchronized fact. The defense then functioned, the state sent help, the resolution ministries worked. But, I say, after everything and after this distance, the impression remains to be sure, if there were a minor reaction, the damage would have been less. This experience speaks enough of the fact that one euro invested in preventive facts is worth fourfold in relation to the resolution of the consequences and certainly that the experience I have presented goes in favour of the necessity of such a legal project and the need to adopt it as soon as possible. When it comes to the anti-fire law, I would like to say that there are the same concrete experiences in Banat and Vojvodina, and I would like to commend some legal solutions, first of all, regarding harvesting, and then burning of steep crops. In Vojvodina, when the harvest is under way, great works and often do not take appropriate measures and there are side effects. It is my pleasure that Article 49 provides for special protection measures and we expect that these conditions will leave out the frequent fires in the case of harvests. It is also a mass phenomenon in Vojvodina, Banat, the burning of the remains of foreign crops, which often causes great damage. This provision in Article 50, i.e. the sanction provided for by those causing damage to pasture crops, to compensate for the costs of the fire rescue team intervention, i.e. overcoming those damages, I am sure that it will contribute to making the consequences as little as possible and that as little as possible are caused by the fires. What I also appreciate is that it's good is a provision on the possibility of voluntary fire companies. In Vojvodina, specifically in Banat, as I encourage from there, I know that a very developed network of voluntary fire companies, that they are working on training young people, that they are developing this spirit of solidarity of voluntary fire companies, and they certainly need support and they will have their part and have a full effect. All in all, so that we do not always and often discuss only the consequences, and with respect for the fact that the adoption of these legislative proposals is harmonized with EU legislation and the fact that we have all the help Russia has in establishing a centre in Nis, which will be a centre for rapid reactions in the Balkans, it is certainly necessary to create preconditions and give full support to both Minister Dacic and the Resord Ministry of Interior to adopt these laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-21-0.u34425	Thank you, Mr. Kasalovich. The word has been issued by the People's MP, Vice-President Judita Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-21-0.u34426	Dear Presidents, honourable government representatives, ladies and gentlemen, these laws that are in today's agenda, which we are discussing in a joint principled and uniform search, are so heterogeneous that they, in fact, have in their name a common -- that it is about laws. It's the only thing that connects all these points on the agenda. For this reason, the debate may also seem so chaotic, because each of the MPs chooses his favorites, so he talks about certain laws, and then we cannot have a serious and quality debate about all the laws, which are and how important to the development of this society. I'm going to try, at least in a way, to systematicize these laws, to divide them into several groups, to make it seem a little bit neater and clearer. I would start with these laws dealing with the prevention of violence, which are the bill on amendments and additions to the Law on the Prevention of Violence and misbehaving in sports events and the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Criminal Code. Both of these laws, first of all, deal with fire extinguishing. I don't see that the proposals for these changes and the additions deal more seriously with the causes of this violence, which are increasingly spreading across the streets of our cities. Violence is present in schools, in homes, in every segment of society. These legal proposals came with their amendments and additions shortly after the adoption of the basic laws, which means that these laws, which were not long ago adopted, obviously did not give an adequate way to address the problem of violence in Serbia. We should now trust the legislator that he has indeed found a formula to prevent violence in Serbia. For example, the law on preventing violence and misbehavior at sports events puts the main emphasis on security and expects this measure to give some results, and the bill on amendments and additions to the Criminal Code puts the focus on repression. So these two legislative proposals, with a security measure and increased penalties, should bring about a result in the sense that we will have fewer hooligans on the streets, less beaten people, fewer murders, etc. We can't, as basic causes of violence, see only those hooligans at sports events, we can't just blame them for everything that's going on in the streets of the cities, because these young people have probably acquired a particular model of behavior, a particular education that has led them to this condition to expect violence to solve all their frustrations and problems, to get consecrated and humiliated by others. So we don't have that kind of problem with people who attend sports. We have a much deeper problem, as far as our education and our family law and our institutions are concerned, such as the police and the judiciary. Do we have the right to place all responsibility on those who cause riots at sports events, which make riots in the streets up to one kilometer from that room where the sports event takes place? No, I don't. For these riots, for these hooligans, for all the crimes that are committed and how responsible are all those that I have just numbered, among other things, the courts. Are the judges, who have been in the process for years of those charges concerning the serious crimes of people who are now named as the main offenders at sports events now on the lists provided for in the selection of judges in primary courts, higher courts, appeals etc.? Has anyone, among other things, taken into account when deciding whether someone is worthy of performing a judicial function if for years he has conducted proceedings against certain perpetrators and perpetrators of criminal acts, and today we are passing laws concerning only those offenders at sports events and we are trying to measure the security of the presence of those sports events as a highlight of the fight against criminal acts, violence, which are possible and are performed in sports events and in relation to sports events. When all of this comes to mind, I'd like to ask if this article is 4. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Prevention of Violence and Misbehavior at sports events is indeed comprehensive. I'd remind you of a video that's been spinning on national television for days, when fans at one of the sports shows were throwing away a doll that was supposed to represent a journalist. We know the Insider show is being broadcast, which is talking about sports hooliganism. They threw that doll and showed in the worst possible light what they thought and what they would do with that reporter. Could this Article 4 really be enough to defend that kind of behavior at sports events? Can we under such behaviour introduce a physical attack on participants in sports events, throwing objects on sports grounds, entering into a sports object of markings that offends national, racial, religious and other feelings and so on? Is it enough to just list to one member of the 4th true all those possibilities that are expected at a sports event or should it be much more systematic, much more comprehensive, much clearer? Is the role of this legislative body, as well as the one that has proposed the laws, to send a message that this society has finally matured to deal with violence and to stop it or is it again just one bucket of water that is about to be thrown on the big fire that has already burst? Is it enough to just boost repression, punishment, and only in a monetary sense? Is it enough for the organizer of sports events to be punished, say, with a million to two million dinars, when we know very well that sports clubs have much more money than those millions or two million dinars, how much would it possibly be for some serious riots during the sports event? Is it enough for a responsible person to be punished with 50,000-150,000 dinars when, at the same time, in this Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Infringements and how do we increase these criminal penalties that will be paid by natural persons in the course of a traffic violation? When you compare those fines from five to one hundred and fifty thousand dinars, which are paid by a natural person who committed a traffic violation, and the one paid by a responsible person, 50,000 to 150,000 dinars, we see no big difference, and the consequence is also significant in terms of social danger. All in all, these laws will not provide an answer to how to deal with violence if we remain only at the level of ceasefire. As regards the draft law supplementing the Law on Transport of Immobility and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Procedural Procedure, I could only point out that they are both introducing certain newspapers which are unlikely to achieve the result expected of them. The law on litigation increases the price for the audit value to 100,000 euros, which is the part in which the second-degree decision is challenged, which means that, especially if it is real estate and not monetary claims, it literally makes it impossible for citizens from the inside to submit audits, to go to an emergency remedy before the Supreme Cassation Court, because the property, you will allow, in the interior of Serbia, far less valuable than in Belgrade. In the interior, you can easily buy residential buildings from five to six thousand euros. How, then, will he who thinks his right to this property in some way be damaged to address an emergency drug to the Supreme Cassation Court? I don't think so. In particular, I would like to highlight the law on the additions to the Law on Transport of Immobility, which again makes it impossible to verify the contract evenly, since it binds the agreement regarding the transport of immovableity to the seat of the court where the property is located, and under current law we can conclude, or verify contracts in any place in Serbia. In this way, we will prevent those who are prevented from disease or cannot, for various reasons, come to court to verify this real estate contract. So we're making it difficult for citizens to access the court. On the other hand, we allow the verifyer to simply refuse to verify the immovableity contract if he considers that the immovableity has already been subject to legal work, and it is said that he is particularly concerned about the records of those contracts. Knowing us as we are, how we keep records and records of everything and everything, I doubt we'll have a valid record, which will be able to serve that clerk to carry out a valid check and reject the possibility of a single fixed-moving contract. I think in this way you give too much opportunity to someone who's just a clerk, an verifyer, who normally has a legal obligation just to verify and determine the identity of those who verify their signatures, and never enters into the contents of a contract. Thus, these laws (President: Time). ). Proposed by no matter how urgent the procedure will not indicate any significant change in our legal system.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-21-0.u34427	Thank you, Mrs. Popovic. The word has the People's MP Bozidar Delic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-21-0.u34428	I must once again, although my colleagues have already pointed out, to say that the practice in this assembly continues to be combined with what is incompatible with ensuring that some laws are passed in haste. I often ask myself whether quality or quantity is important to this congregation. The way we're doing it, it looks like we're talking about quantity. Quality can't even be spoken of when only five hours from now we're talking about several important laws. On the other hand, when we take this situation that we've been brought into, especially when these laws are at stake, that we could, in practice, only get it in our hands this morning and then write the amendments within a few hours, then it also says how much quality we could write these amendments, and also that our contribution to improving these laws will not be as it was with the other laws that we've passed this year. I've talked more than once about the feeling that our legislative role in this assembly is actually just a farce, that we're just an extended hand of the government, that we're a transmission through which the government here is carrying out its will. And it's about serious laws. In this way, the role of MPs is thoughtless, as are the work of these people who have probably put forth a great deal of effort to write these laws. Well, I guess it took these people to give us enough time to discuss it in this assembly, after all, to give a review of their work. I'll only talk about one law, it's a draft law on emergency situations, and I'll talk about what's left of me vaguely in reading this law. At first glance, it is evident that the people who have done this law have put great effort into trying to have such a very important problem, which is otherwise covered by various other laws that have passed through this congregation, now gather and unite in one place. Through Article 6, it seems to me that somehow that practice continues, under the influence of some foreign factors, that we remain unspeakable. Because if it is said that through civil protection we must adhere to certain international regulations, protocols, Geneva Conventions, etc., we have been trying to avoid the word "war" or "war right", and that is simply unacceptable because we must adhere to international war and humanitarian law. Some others in the world in their terminology rule out that word "war", but it is not excluded from these conventions and should also be found in our legislation. In Article 8. "The meaning of the expression" I think the effort has been made, that it's quite well explained, but it seems to me that point 37 is supposed to be more complete. We have tried through one of our amendments to supplement it and I hope that the representatives of the government will take care of it when they receive our amendments. In Article 11, in the field of protection and rescue, in particular points 6) and 18, I have certain concerns. Point 6 says the interior ministry is organising a system of observation, intelligence, early warning and alerts in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Earlier, in the Law of Defence, in that first version, in Article 14 and point 42, it was regulated to delete those latest changes, which we recently adopted. By the way, then I mean it was transferred from the Department of Defense to the Ministry of the Interior. I don't think that's a good thing, that the previous law on defence was supposed to say that at least it participates in carrying out those obligations, because then it should draw the conclusion that the Ministry of the Interior is going to have to organise a surveillance system. And here, if it's just the airspace, there are three systems that monitor the airspace. There's this military system, and so far it's absolutely not a problem. Even here in law, the possibility is that the Ministry of Defence participates in this system and provides certain information, but if it is said to be organised by the entire Home Office system, it would mean that it would have to provide some other resources, which it has so far. And it's known that, next to him, there's an Airspace Control Agency, and there's this thing that's about meteorological opportunities. There is, after all, this radar system, which, as a backup system, justified its existence in 1999. Is this going to introduce this fourth system, which will now be controlled by the Ministry of the Interior, or was it otherwise regulated in both laws? For me, the particularly characteristic point 18 is "participating in search and rescue of road accidents in road, rail, river and air traffic". I'm particularly interested in this air traffic thing. Since someone in this country is obliged to organise a search and rescue service, Article 21 of point 13 of the Defence Act says it organises a search and rescue service for military aircraft. Since we have united in this Article 21, the common civil-military air traffic management system, then it is certainly necessary that somewhere in some law it says who is responsible for organising the search and rescue services, especially since there have been neutral means of use within the Agency for the control of airspace for years that could be used and are purposely predestined for the search and rescue services and for its technical equipment. I think this, as it says in this law, is a part of the search and rescue, well written, but then I ask the question in which other law will be a designated carrier for this job. I think it should be the Ministry of Defense and that in that law where it's said "organizes only the search and rescue of military aircraft", that "military" should be expelled. In Article 57, I think it's well done here, it's about evacuation. However, in Articles 57, 58 or 59, I mean not even in 58, through one attitude was supposed to regulate evacuation in the war. We haven't been able to present it through one amendment, but at least one position should have been to evacuate the war on the request of the one in charge or in charge and command of the actions on a particular territory. It is regulated by some other regulations, but I think it's only through one attitude, and here it should be emphasized. These are all evacuations in the event of some other dangers, but the evacuation in the war could have been made clear through one attitude. Article 91, where the field association is given, is done properly. However, it had to be extended further, since the association of the terrain, along with this removal, identification and emergency burial of the dead, the taking of measures to prevent infections, cover and eliminate all other sources of danger. In war, it's a special danger from mines. Casset mines were one of the greatest dangers on the ground in 1999. There's no other service to do that tomorrow. It will also be done by civil defence units, civil protection and some demining units that will form on the territory. So I think you should add not a special attitude, but with this about disinfection, disinfection, deratization, decontamination, add the term 'demination', because it's one of those dangers that certainly await us in the territory. Again with regret I must conclude that this is a disrespect and these people who have made these laws, because we haven't had enough time to prepare ourselves properly and to make amendments to these laws. Then it remains, in practice, that they have done as much as they could and that these amendments that we have done have been made without the help of some professional bodies, services that we normally use whenever we write amendments, but practically with our resources, as MPs, and in a short time of perhaps one or two hours. These laws certainly deserved far more of our work, and I think it should, in importance, have determined even a little more of the time than it was done on this occasion. I repeat that quality, in my opinion, is much more important than quantity. Since we will try to pass a thousand laws this year, in my opinion, it is more important that what we adopt is implemented and quality done both at the government level and here at the assembly level.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-21-0.u34429	Thank you. The People's Messenger, Jovan Palalic, has a word, and let the MP of the people be prepared, Vladan Jeremic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-21-0.u34430	Dear Presidents, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, more colleagues today pointed out that the content of the debate within these united agenda points is indeed such that so many important laws have been brought together into an incompatible debate that no one here has enough time to process them in a quality way. I must really say that very serious and important laws, in the light of their consequences for the lives of citizens, are united in the context of this first principle debate. My colleagues were talking about one set of laws, and I'm going to talk about three very important procedural laws, which today were not very much touched in this discussion, which, each by its own consequences, and as far as citizens' lives are concerned, primarily the exercise of citizens' rights. These are amendments to the Law on litigation, amendments to the Law on Infringement and, very important, the Law on Administrative Disputes. What is a feature of all the procedural laws that the Serbian government has referred to in the National Assembly over the past year is that all possible models have been sought to shorten and speed up the process. In particular, in the Code of Criminal Procedure, we have indicated that such access by the Government certainly cannot lead to the determination of the actual state of affairs, the material truth and the correct application of material law and, above all, the exercise of justice. The same practice is carried out through all three of these procedural laws - both through the Law on Prosecution and through the Law on Infringement Procedure and through the Law on Administrative Disputes. For a short period of time, I will look back at all three laws and I will point to some solutions that, in the opinion of the DSS parliamentary group, are extremely bad, which will create huge problems in application and which are so contradictory that the question is what did the legislator really want with these solutions. I will start with the Law on a litigation procedure, which sets out a series of newspapers, with the aim of maximising the procedure, that the rights set out in the Law on a litigation procedure are minimised, and that some solutions that have existed so far, which are of a quality, are completely abolished. In one or two solutions that this law makes, I'm going to say the same thing, but the general impression of the Law on the litigation process is – the shorter, the faster, the faster, the faster, the tighter it all gets, and whether the truth and what is determined in the litigation process and the facts will be qualityd, that is not questionable. First, which is a complete newspaper and it would be interesting to hear from the government's representative, the only minister here who can answer the National Assembly, is when it comes to the value of the dispute to declare the review as an emergency legal remedy or to determine the value of the dispute when determining where an individual can be tried. We are introducing value into the legal system of the Republic of Serbia in euro. As far as I know, the currency in Serbia is a dinar, and now the value of the dispute is determined in euros. When did this euro become an official means of payment in the Republic of Serbia? It is said, when it comes to the declaration of the audit, that it is not allowed unless the value of the item exceeds the dinar equivalent of 100,000 euros. So far, we've always had it defined in dinars, but if things like this are already being set up, we can only assume that this government expects huge inflation, so it's afraid of frequent and permanent changes to the law, and that's why it puts this provision in place when it comes to the value of the dispute. The biggest problem is that a large number of cases that have so far been protected by the possibility of a declaration of review as an emergency legal remedy to the Supreme Casation Court are now completely abolished. A large number of problematic cases, which have increased the protection of citizens in the exercise of their rights in the litigation process, are now no longer possible. The audit doesn't exist anymore. An emergency legal remedy for cases which are within these limits of the value of the dispute no longer exists. It's a huge reduction of the rights that citizens have had so far and that's what you should say. Amendments to the Law on the Procedural Procedure drastically reduce citizens' rights to protect their rights and, above all, with a view to establishing a proper factual state and applying the law in order to achieve their right. The same is true of an individual judge's trial. This introduces a value of 50,000 euros (e.g. euro again), but the question is whether these are just such simple cases that they can be tried by an individual judge and whether the value of the case always determines how difficult and complicated a case is, so that they do not need to be tried in a higher court with more judges. It is a huge problem and all this suggests that this government only wants to get rid of the case as quickly as possible, to talk about how the judiciary works faster, and only when it comes to the third point will we discuss who is actually going to apply this and how this list of judges, which is being buzzed by the whole of Serbia, who needs to apply this kind of bad law. As for the other provisions, giving judges the right to carry out preparatory actions when it comes to making decisions in the preparatory part of the procedure is absolutely unacceptable. Again, the judge is relieved in a very sensitive part of the case. Then you have to delete in a member of the law that the court determines all the facts of which the decision of foundation depends. Why are you erasing it? Why wouldn't the court determine all the facts? I guess the goal is to establish all the facts that would properly apply material law and make a decision. And here you simply do everything you can to speed up the process and to solve it as quickly as possible, mainly to the harm of the citizens. When it comes to amending the Law of Infractions, you are introducing a very dangerous thing here. You are making an analogy in an institute that Serbian law and Serbian legal traditions do not know, analogy with what you did in the Code of Criminal Procedure – introduce so-called. a plea agreement. It's an Anglo-Saxon Law Institute, where a deal between the prosecutor and the defendant negotiates whether a criminal offence will be recognised, determines the type of crime, height and everything else. Everyone here has an interest in making a deal. It's classic "to ut des" - I'll give it to you, you give it to me. I'm letting you give up prosecution, and you're giving me a plea. Although this has been the subject of public controversy when it comes to the Code of Criminal Procedure, it is absolutely unacceptable, dangerous and devastating to introduce this into a criminal system. Because if the prosecutor's going after him, the prosecutor's pressing charges, the crime is something led by the prosecutor. You here give the right to guess a misdemeanor, the height of the sentence. All those who can file a misdemeanor, initiate a misdemeanor procedure -- police officers, market inspectors, local self-government -- each of them comes in a position to negotiate with the perpetrator of the offence whether or not to confess him or not, and to speculate with him how much punishment there will be for this act. I suggest this is a serious source of corruption. You give an unlimited number of people working at the state administration to negotiate the level of punishment with perpetrators of a felony. This will lead to bribery of various degrees. Let's not lie to ourselves about the state of corruption in public services. Now, you can imagine some inspectors in some small places who come to be able to negotiate with someone, say, employers who don't respect labour laws, or some store owners who don't record their incomes – all I'm going to do is end it well with you, pay me, the fine will be one dinar or it won't be. That's a very serious problem. You cannot withdraw analogy with the Code of Criminal Procedure in Violent Matter, and especially not to introduce an institute which Serbian law does not know. I'm pointing out here to the government -- pull this out of the process, you won't get anything of this except a very large opportunity for corruption to spread out and that those who are going to file criminal charges start to pressure all perpetrators of criminal acts to speculate with them on the level of punishment. The Law on Administrative Disputes is one of the most important laws to be passed at this session, a law long awaited, which was a constitutional obligation (the last law was passed in 1996), but several principles need to be asked about this law. The first question is why this law was not passed in 2008, more specifically by 31 December 2008, when it was necessary to bring this matter into line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia under the Constitution and the Law on the Implementation of the Constitution. I will remind you that the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia allows judicial protection for all final administrative acts, which was not the case with the previous constitution, so the question arises what about those citizens who, in the past few years since the Constitution was brought in, have been denied this right. The second question I ask the Government of the Republic of Serbia – what about the law on general administrative procedure, which is much more important, which is more and more often applied than the law on administrative disputes, which is, in fact, a condition for the implementation of the administrative procedure, a condition for the application of the law on administrative disputes? We have no answer as to why the general administrative procedure law was not first passed, and only after that is the law on administrative disputes. Or, at the end of the line, why didn't we bring both today? And there's no minister here to answer what's wrong with that law. Because when you look at solutions in this law on administrative disputes, a number of norms in the General Administrative Procedure Act are totally anachronous. You are introducing here in one piece, which is fine, dealing with electronic documents, the way you deliver and file charges or anything in electronic form, and in the General Administrative Procedure Act, you still have a fax or I don't know what. Therefore, when it comes to the three processes of the law, they are extremely bad and greatly deny citizens' rights. You want to speed it all up, cut it short at the expense of their rights. In that sense, especially the law on violations, withdraw them urgently because you will bring complete chaos into our legal system.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-21-0.u34431	Thank you. The word is from the MP Vladan Jeremic, and let Mrs Aleksandra Jankovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-21-0.u34432	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, if there is a fact that a new law on fire protection has been pending, as we have heard, for more than two decades, then it is clear how necessary it was for certain amendments to the existing legislative acts and thus to comply with the real situation in which we are. We are, as a state and society, faced with the fact that in real life and too little attention already at the stage of designing objects, especially those for public purposes, and thus we face events that we could mostly prevent from avoiding. I have really carefully read the draft fire protection law, and I think more attention should be paid to what, in my opinion, and the basic problem, which is that the projectors themselves do not know enough the rules on fire protection, because, among other things, it is known that there is no obligation to pass an expert examination from fire protection, and there is very few that can be praised for the fact that they have passed it. It is interesting, however, that there is no project of a public purpose facility in which a general structure would be budgeted based on fire load. The problem is, among other things, the process of technical control of project documentation, which is quite superficial, especially as we are increasingly insisting on the speed to do something. The problem is also the fact that this control is done by people who have no obligation to pass an expert exam. In addition to these preventive conditions for the prevention of fires, which can be solved on paper, one problem from the world of reality has been seen, and that is something that is not properly addressed by legislation again. The problem is also the material being installed, especially in industrial buildings, whose steel structures are surrounded by various import panels. Where's the problem? For border environmental inspection, which controls import construction material, it is primarily important that it is not radioactive, and they are practically negligible, not interested in its mechanical and technical characteristics, and therefore whether it is easily flammable. On the other hand, investors are expensive to further check the material they are building facilities for, even if it is possible to do so. For the sake of the public, I assume that this is well known to you, there is in Belgrade an IMS Research Institute, which has co-operation with laboratories in the surrounding countries. I would also point out the problem of the lack of rules on mandatory testing of facades against fire resistance, so that architects and builders decide for themselves and, in practice, carry their own risks when buying materials for raising public and residential buildings. In Serbia, we will surely agree, ladies and gentlemen, MPs and representatives of the government, one of the most common causes of large fires, unfortunately with victims, is ignorance. A typical example of ignorance in the phase of the design of the public and multi-story housing projects we had with the building of the University of Work in Novi Sad, when the fire from the eighth floor was coming down, which was nowhere in the world. I hope, as a state and a society, we've learned at least some lessons from these unfortunate cases. Another example of life for this law, which someone said at first nicely that it had nothing to do with politics, is that, and I was just talking about a study of material, worrying that, let's say, the only theater curtain that is located in the NIS theater in Novi Sad, which is one hour resistant to fire, and is still not in accredited laboratories tested curtains of other theatres. They weigh 20 tons because they're made of steel or metal, and we don't essentially know their actual fire resistance. I think it's very important to pay attention to things like this, because it's clear that prevention itself is much more important than the consequences of something that can happen. In second place is also ignorance, in the phase of building exploitation. It's kind of this bill of law that we've done, but we've been witnessing how many evacuation routes there are, especially in high-rise buildings, blocked by old refrigerators, closets and all kinds of other things. Even if a man, for example, locked the fire door, went on vacation, took the key, and that's where the problem arises. So, the leak has a lot. In some things, it seems, only God can preserve us. The newest regulation on the content and method of drawing up technical documentation for high construction facilities requires that the project documentation, when requesting permission to build buildings of public purpose and business and residential multi-story buildings, must also include the main fire protection project. Unfortunately, many investors, this has shown the practice so far, are mostly looking for someone who will do a fire protection lab for them when the facility is already built, and there is a problem. Among other things, if a fire protection project is not done properly at the start, it later collects the installation of the fire protection system itself by more than 30%. We, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, have submitted several amendments to the Bill on Fire Protection and Desire, you will probably notice this through all our discussions, not to engage in politics, but to intend to practically point to certain real situations that we are facing. Whether you consider them or not, I am sure there is much to be done to warn, above all, certain situations that may later have major consequences. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-21-0.u34433	Thank you. The MP, Ms. Aleksandra Jankovic, has a word, and let Mićo Rogovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-21-0.u34434	All of us who have ever gone to games well know that the atmosphere in the stadium is a good barometer of political temperature. Besides, remember how the break-up of the former SFRY started at a game in Maximir. We all know that 98% of fans have never been or will be hooligans, and it is extremely inadequate to put a sign of equality between the concept of fans and the concept of hooligans. It is a public secret that hooligans who break windows after peaceful protests are actually well-trained professionals, who are in the interest of these mitts ending up with aggressive outbursts, so that opposition rebellion in Serbia quickly compromises and shuts down. It cannot be in the interest of patriotically-oriented fans that instead of a picture of a dignified protest over the unlawful kidnapping of the work of our state territory into the world, they go to the picture of already pre-labelled, well-known Serbian collective violence. Fans have never worked for Biden and his thesis on Serbs as a genocide and criminal people to be imprisoned in a concentration camp. They are not, but some, especially members of the government, formed in the face of foreign ambassadors and domestic tycoons, are working. And it suits them to silence both fans and all those who think the government isn't for ten, because the tithe doesn't deserve someone who's snowed on the tracks, the people barely put an end to the end, but therefore has fireworks due to visa liberalisation, which will only help those who already have money to be less harassed by the necessary travel documentation. From what will students, whose parents enter debt slavery to provide conditions for their schooling, or people who have lost their jobs, become a technological surplus, so that they can only travel to an elephant cemetery? Under the pretext of fighting crime, violence and hooliganism, the government is coming to end the freedom of patriotic thought and action. How, by the way, do you answer the following questions: Why was the prosecution of a believer and open discrimination against him, in which he sought to lose his job? Is it also forbidden to organise in the association of citizens and advocate patriotic values on the basis of what basis and religious profession in Serbia? Will the media construction of participation in the myths, which ended in the destruction of the city and where certain songs were sung, become an indictment for hundreds of thousands of Serbian citizens who participated in these myths? Since when is patriotism banned in Serbia and is half a million Serbs in Serbia under investigation for patriotism? Do you know how many fans there were on the last cell and the ashes of the blessed Patriarch of Serbian Mr. Paul? Almost 100%, because we're all rooting for someone. But since there were no hooligans in the world, the real picture of Serbia has gone into the world -- dignitious, civil fancy, Christian warm and open to all people of goodwill. We can't blame young people, who are very much in cheerleading ranks for loving their country, but who have resistance to the party state. We can't blame them for the mistakes of those who should be their authority. What is involved in misbehaving and how can, for example, characterize the behaviour of LSV leader, who drives motorcycle sleds in a short sleeve T-shirt in the middle of Novi Sad at 3 a.m.? Is this a late personal celebration for making a state in the state and getting the capital of Vojvodina? (Sniffs) I don't know. ) Canak may have found a hole in the new Traffic Act, for who, please, could expect and predict that a normal man in the middle of the streets of a big city will drive motorcycle sleds in a short-sleeve shirt? Madam President, I'm sure you'll agree that the people of our branch would have this kind of behavior, that a man in a short-sleeve shirt on a minus three-carrying motorcycle in the middle of Serbia's Athens doesn't exactly belong to the category of normal. It doesn't take a man to be a psychiatrist or a psychologist to diagnose it. That really looks like that joke - if I'm lying, I'll get run over by a train. In this congregation you have already told so many lies that it would turn into a train station, indeed, which is in the middle of some big disaster. Of course, in the case of Mr. Chanka, there are serious possible tectonic consequences, who knows little physics also knows that formula about mass and acceleration, and threatens the public security of all those who were present or who could see such a thing. What do we do now? If a young man shows up in cheerleading groups coming to football stadiums, would it be normal for me to drive a boat here in the middle of Belgrade? Will Mr. Canak represent a good model of proper conduct for all these young people you're trying to accuse, in fact, of the consequences of your own activities? Minister Malovic is not presently here, but I agree with her that, with restrictive criminal policy, this bill should provide for preventive measures...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-21-0.u34435	Time. Thank you. Mr. Mico Rogovic has a word, and let the MP Alexander Pejcic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-21-0.u34436	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, Mr Minister, representatives of the ministries, within the time of the SNS parliamentary group, I will probably be able to give part of my opinion on three points of the agenda of this joint principle and single search, which are: the draft law on emergency situations, then the draft law on fire protection, the draft law on administrative disputes, as well as the Proposal for amendments and additions to the Law on criminal proceedings. Looking at 11 items of the agenda, it is noted that six points refer to changes and complement the laws already before or almost passed, that one is about the end of the law, one is an agreement and it is about three new draft laws. In view of this situation, it is the conclusion of my esteemed colleague Delic that if we work too fast here, we are in a situation that in a very short time we have amendments and additions to the relevant laws that we have long ago and brought, which we have talked about. It's probably where the stories come from these days and now, if it's such a huge agenda and I want to talk only about three points of the agenda, and I have this many papers in front of me, what if I were to talk about 11 points of the agenda? I'd probably spend 11 minutes just on the names of these bills. With regard to amendments and additions to the Law on the Procedural Procedure, what I am telling everyone, primarily on behalf of my party, is that certain provisions are considered unacceptable for a simple reason, which is the value of the dispute by this amendment and the supplement being determined in foreign money. We all know that the Republic of Serbia is a sovereign state and that it has its own money as an official and legal means of payment and that it represents both one of the important state symbols. Therefore, such a procedure violates the reputation of the Republic of Serbia and primarily weakens trust in the national currency, which can also have concrete economic and monetary consequences. The establishment of values in foreign money also causes practical problems in the application of the law, as it requires continuous calculation of the value, i.e. monitoring of the average foreign currency rate and legal uncertainty due to possible major changes in course. We believe that there is no excuse for this law to be the lowest amount for allowed audits to be increased in certain cases and over 50 times, with the main note that, with regard to amendments and additions to the Law on the Judicial Procedure, it is unacceptable to use terms such as measures, currency units of foreign currencies in the text of the amendment and supplementation proposal. There are also certain provisions of the Law on Procedural Procedure in the conflict with one another, such as Article 43 of the College of Art. In 78 and 103, where it was found that the prosecutor was left with a deadline to remove the lack of a lawsuit. Furthermore, with the proposed change, they are primarily placed in the position of the ignorant party, and we know that it is the court's obligation to take care of the protection and rights of the interests of ignorant parties. This proposal also provides that judicial assistants can carry out certain tasks that are part of the work of judges and have a significant impact on the verdict, which excludes the public in these proceedings. The proposed text of the contested provisions is also unclear and undefined because it cannot be determined in a reliable manner what statements and actions are being made, in breach of the constitutional principle of legality. Notwithstanding this, statements of procedure may only be taken by judges in accordance with the principle of directness and the public. These provisions, inter alia, do not comply with Article 142. The Constitution on universalised rules of international law. Now I will talk about reforms in the security sector, which refers to the first two points of the agenda - the draft emergency law and the draft law on fire protection. We know that reforms are necessary in the security sector, as a prerequisite for our country's EU integration, and that they contribute to civil society in situations relating to these first two laws. That is why these two points are on today's agenda, but it is truly incomprehensible that both points are proposed to be carried out by emergency procedure. Except maybe this point of fire, Mr. Dacic, given that the law is over 20 years old and that no one after 2000 comes forward, and we know that unfortunately this institution has also burned, has passed the fire law in the past nine years, and you really need to get a confession and courage to pass this law. But regardless of this little joke, there is no reason for these two laws to be passed at such a rapid time and by an urgent procedure, although in the making of these laws there is a very great effort for both your ministry and your assistants. What should we stress here in particular? It should be stressed that the laws are over 20 years old and that certain the thesis and provisions of the old laws refer to the work of some institutions that no longer exist and to the work of civil service authorities, which also no longer exists, and the bodies of socio-political organisations, and even the Union of Communists, which is mentioned in the old law, which no longer exists, and should formally comply certain provisions of the old law with the new assets of democratic society in Serbia and all that happened in the previous 20 years. Indeed, there is no fact or finding, at least mine, that even the existing, or previous law, even though so many years old, did not bring some of the provisions that had well regulated this area in that area. That is why it does not result in the fact that these laws are not only adopted because of our journey to the EU, but simply because of our social system and citizens themselves. In view of the situation, unfortunately, in recent years, especially which in this area have been an emergency since the fall, and the formation of a special sector in the MUP for emergency situations is also a good thing, and that is why I am saying that Serbia has potential in this area, but that the law must have formally defined those changes in the laws that applied to the last 20 years. In some countries, an untimely and unskilled reaction by state authorities, certain ministry sectors, including the government, has led to a decline in these governments or, in the end, a requirement for their shifts. I hope that, given the speed of adoption of this law, it will not be a situation, not because of this second thing I said, but because of this first finding I made. I note once again that Serbia's potential in the area exists, but it is a question of whether the legal provisions that mainly apply to the civil sector will be implemented by adopting these laws because we, by old law, have provisions in the work, behaviour and attitudes of citizens and to emergency situations and in case of fire. Now these provisions are even more defined, but the reasons for individual behavior are always individual. I do not believe that, as Mr Maric pointed out in his interview, in addition to the legal provisions that are good, the appeal of local self-government will be a good enough reason to improve civil sector co-operation, i.e. citizens, in the event of emergency circumstances or fire protection. In some countries, in order to participate in voluntary organisations, a type of voluntary fire organisation, compensation is given, or part of the pay for participation in the same, for example in the ceasefire in France, while in other countries such actions and participations reduce taxes for participants in these events. In some countries, there is a tradition of reacting on such occasions and helping endangered neighbours or buildings or parts of the settlement or parts of the territory. In Serbia, the tradition of this humanitarian form of involvement in such actions and actions of broader proportions has been lost, unfortunately, given the political developments of the past 20 years. That is why there is doubt on our part that only the law will be sufficient to improve the attitude of the population by its provisions. Greater action by the ministry is also needed, greater animation of the population and greater media action by the MUP, and the area of education of the population should probably be considered and a little more work done, regardless of what such actions require and additional funding. However, what is hidden in these two draft laws? It's a major remark, which I think you should give an answer to. Local self-government is additionally burdened by some number of new managers (the bill stands - manager) for certain settlements, but also certain populated units, and then you have crisis headquarters, where certain functions are planned for these headquarters. It takes extra resources, and someone needs to be trained and paid for it. You have a situation where, say, the mayor of Nis from the DS in one of his interviews, as well as the mayors of other local self-government, complains that before them there is a law on reducing the number of officials in the state administration and local self-government and the situation that every law, including these two laws, if we really want to talk seriously about the issue of law enforcement, brings local self-government into a situation that needs to be adequately trained with staff and jobs, related to this topic. And there are conflicts between the laws that we bring here and some other laws that, given the aspects of the global financial crisis and our crisis, which point to a reduction in the number of employees in these administrations. What's also noticeable, in the fire protection law, I think it's well-defined, but the emergency law says the term "autonomic province". I guess "autonomous provinces"? That should change the whole law. Should the Government, the Committee or any of the MPs submit an amendment, in order not to be misread by someone's intentions, which probably do not apply solely to an autonomous province? We are legally required, by the Constitution, to use the term “autonomous provinces, ” not“ autonomous province. ” I urge that until the day of the amendment to these laws, I think it's in the emergency law, suggest certain corrections. Otherwise, we, as a parliamentary group, have submitted a series of amendments. It is mainly about the necessary technical order and the work of such examples as I have mentioned. Since time is running out, thank you, Chairman. We'll talk about the amendments and everything else when it comes to that.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-21-0.u34437	Time at the disposal of the parliamentary group "Forward, Serbia" has been used. The word has been given by MP Aleksandar Pejcic, followed by MP Dragan Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-21-0.u34438	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Ministers, the Government's representatives, and I, like many of my colleagues, will talk about the bill on amendments and additions to the Law on the Prevention of Violence and Misbehavior at sports events. Even though we have 11 laws at this point, I'm going to focus on this particular law. When it comes to violence, it is an undesirable social phenomenon caused by individuals or groups of people. Today we also had opportunities in parliament to see one violence, and regarding the agenda, where 11 laws are packed into one item of the agenda, so I would ask you what kind of relationship there is, let's say, an emergency law with a litigation procedure or a law on immovableity with visa liberalisation in Israel. In my opinion, it doesn't make any sense here. I hope that someone in the ruling coalition will answer me if you should have brought this kind of caucasian agenda. Otherwise, sports events create an opportunity to violate public order, to desecrate sports facilities and escalate conflicts. There may be a fight of certain fans, and ultimately, none of us want to die. It is certain that such a law is necessary for Serbia, but Serbia has such a law. In 2007, Mr Dragan Jocic presented to this parliament the Law on the Prevention of Violence and Misbehavior at sports events. Many opposition parties, both then and present, sitting in parliament, have said that this law is good and that it is a pro-European law that will and will prevent violence on our sports grounds. But that didn't happen. In fact, these cosmetic changes, you want to admit your mistake that violence at sports events didn't happen. And for what? Exactly because this law was not properly applied. It was only applied selectively. My esteemed friend Mr. Zeljko Tomic talked about some cases, such as Žika Angelkovic, who shot fans in sports fields with chairs and was not sanctioned for it. So if you had applied the provisions of this law in due time, we would have no reason to pass such laws in the congregation. The other kind of violence that happened today is actually the government's violence against us MPs. In fact, the government only sent the Legislative Committee to discuss this law, not the Youth and Sports Committee. I am sorry that the government is thus discriminating certain committees, and it is precisely the Committee on Sports that should have given a certain opinion and that President Milan Vukkovic is presenting here today the position of the Sports Committee, not to discuss the law on the Sports Committee tomorrow, where the representatives of the government will also be respected. So that's also one government violence, which is not appropriate. What's new in this law is, in fact, what you've copied from English legislation. It would be good to remind the citizens of Serbia that a tragedy occurred at the match at the time in Hazel. In fact, a large number of English hooligan fans participated in a fight against Italian fans and there were dozens of deaths. Then, England's Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher ordered that a good law be passed to prevent violence at English sports events. And that's what happened. Teached by that experience, we've tried to pass a good law and I think we're in2007. and how good the law was passed and presented to this Assembly, but it is a mistake, again, that this ruling majority is inadequately applying that law. DSS MPs have written a number of amendments. We expect you to accept these amendments because they are too clear and clear, and how they can be implemented in this law. When you vote this law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Prevention of Violence and misbehaving at sports events, it should be applied. In order for one law to be good, he and how it should be applied. I thank you, and I hope you accept our amendments to voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-21-0.u34439	Five minutes has been used since the parliamentary group's time. The DSS parliamentary group is available for seven minutes and 20 seconds. The word is made by MP Dragan Stevanovic, and then by MP Miroslav Petkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-21-0.u34440	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, if the SRS were to have the intention of taking such a rigid fall under this law, it seems to me, Mr Maric (I will address you, since you are essentially behind all of this), we would not be able to reason and bring down this law as much as the majority of the congregation did, and silently and quietly accept the Government of the Republic of Serbia, accepting that this law on emergency situations (I will speak of it) is not being discussed in isolation by everyone else. It seems to me that this matter and the area it governs really deserved a comprehensive and fundamental parliamentary debate. I don't even think it's over. This law, since it regulates very serious and complex matter, deserves political consensus. Why do I say that? Because its application, as defined here in the law, will start from the lowest level of state administration to the highest. You here include local self-government, districts, district principles, the province administration and, of course, the republican administration. It seems to me that the co-ordination provided for by the law can only live in an adequate way when there is a political consensus. By law, you refer municipalities to each other, districts to each other, predict international co-operation. In these municipalities, various political parties are in power. About much more benign things can't provide consensus and agreement, let alone things that may be the consequences of an emergency, or elemental accident or another accident. To the importance of this law, the president of our parliamentary group tried to point out that he was unable to schedule the Security Committee that was supposed to discuss this. He called on one member of the law and got an explanation – you know, this is an emergency procedure. Now watch the irony, the laws that this area in Serbia has been regulated so far, these are two laws – on fire protection and on natural disasters, essentially relying on material from 1977. The 1990s were the worst in Serbia (here, we accept the fact). What's been the problem since 2000? Nothing. But that illustrates the government's relationship to this area. And that's why you've been a hundred times in a position not to have an answer to something you needed and perhaps with the support of the state you could have had when you don't have an answer for some basic accidents, when you don't have an answer for why there's been some irreparable damage, irreparable damage or damage that the state can compensate for, but there's no money, will or determination. I must also say to your minister - it's nice to refer to that white Schengen, but the people who have suffered the damage have nothing from that white Schengen. At the same time, for as long as the Schengen is providing us, the state was unable to pass a serious system law that would provide answers, which would compensate for the damage to those whose houses were destroyed, floods or fires took them away, or those who, God forbid, have suffered some irreparable damage for some other reasons, and it is predicted that they are surrounded by this law. You said nicely once that Serbia had no single system so far, from local to republican level. Now it will be uniformed for all local self-government, for all institutions it will be a single law and it certainly is a good one. What is good and what needs to be insisted is risk monitoring and control, preventive action. But the question is, how much does this country have at the moment, because of the level at which it is located, economic, social and each other, has the strength and the mechanisms to adequately treat the risks. That's the first problem. Basically open, do we have the money to apply this law? We need the law. No one's challenging it. Of course, there's room for criticism. You'll see in our amendments, in our principle debate and in the debate in particular, what we don't think is well worked out enough, what needs to be changed. But essentially, the state is not systemically prepared to fully and fully apply everything this law defines and foresees. Look at all our local self-government. You shouldn't be too smart here. Start with one banal thing – how many local managers are ready to clean up in the course of the year, or in the course of five years, riverbeds that go through their environments? And then the rain came, the flood came and took half the city away. Who's to blame? The one in the Republic who doesn't give money, because there's no money in local budgets. The state hasn't thought about all this for years and decades. And now we've come into a situation where someone's looking for money, asking for help, asking for a state response, and if they do, there's really no way to respond and give adequate help. What else is good here? It's a good thing you've looked back on some laws that are also serious, no matter what we have a reservation against them. In particular, the Law on Planning and Construction – how objectively it is applied, can be solved by doing so. We think you've got a good start on the law. In article 1, you wrote well, very clearly, in the plural -- "autonomous provinces", and then you got lost somewhere, and then it started to be unique. You have amendments, you have the opportunity to accept it, and we think such a solution will be better. What else is there to mention? These are the rights and responsibilities of citizens, legal persons, companies. You've defined them nicely and you've defined their relationship to the state in certain situations, but the state's relationship to them seems to have not been fully worked out. This is particularly true of the compensation of the damage that people would possibly suffer or would suffer because of the removal of certain damages. Seems to us that's where you made one mistake, and that's where we reacted. The amendment requires that the state is liable to citizens and legal professionals for any damage that may be caused in those situations within 60 days. You will agree with me, whether it pleases you or not, from a few years ago, the damage has been done, and to this day, even though the state has an obligation to pay for it and make a commitment to itself, it stands in the air and people suffer financial damage. Penalties are rigorous, which is not bad. It is quite well covered by all those who should or should eventually put themselves in a position to be punished. What's not good is that a lot of it's been entrusted to the government again with sublegal acts. It's something that's objectively the problem of these laws, I like to call them the laws of modern construction, which this assembly has been adopting for a year. It's just that some line is defined in the law, and everything else is entrusted to the government, and in some way the laws and everything that comes out of the law is hidden from the public, that is, the political will of the one who, at this point in time, provides and does the congregation's majority. In the debate in particular, we'll tell you what we think needs to be changed and improved. It seems to me that one serious and adequate debate and an analysis of all that this law should entail will come at the moment when, after the adoption of this law, we see, implement and accept or do not accept the first effects of the application of this law. Until then, unfortunately, it seems to us that one area that needs to be governed by a serious and good law will still not be settled until the end, because in Serbia there are no standards on which we would adequately apply all that you have put into the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-21-0.u34441	Ten minutes has been used since the MPs' time. It's available for 49 minutes and 10 seconds. The People's Messenger Mirko Munjic has the word, and after him is the Messenger of the people Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-21-0.u34442	In my presentation, I'm going to look more at the Law of Infractions. There is no Ms. Malovic here, however, Mr. Dacic, I think you, as an old politician (of course, by internship, not by age), will understand very well what I am about to say. Our general comment of this law on violations would be contained in the words: while you are a hammer – strike, when you become an anvil – suffer. This would be one finding related to these sanctions that have been tightened, as well as to some other solutions provided for in this law, and in the reasons that the Government states to pass this law, the need to tighten sanctions is, it says, not existing ones achieve the purpose of punishment. That's exactly what I've been saying about this finding. Another comment would be related to this range. For individuals, it was from 500 to 50,000, and now it's from 5,000 to 150,000. For legal persons, the range range ranged from 100,000 to 200,000, ranging from 10,000 to 1,000 thousand dinars. However, the question arises, Mr. Dacic, whether enough has been done in the general education of young people, those who attend our sports events, which go to stadiums. You know, television with a national frequency kills this people, say, with a need for vaccination. Why do you do that more when the one who's supposed to get the vaccine commission has already done that? When did the minister literally say that vaccines that would not be used, even if it was a million doses, a million and a half, two or what do I know, would be thrown away? What's with the campaign? If there was a youth education campaign visiting sports grounds as much as it is to vaccinate our population, I believe that the effects would be much, much greater and better, without predicting such drastic sanctions. Furthermore, is it enough, Mr. Dacic, to be taken in by the ringleaders of these events? Do you know who these people are? Do they have their criminal records? I'm sure they do. Are they being brought in before those games? Is their participation in these events being prevented in order to prevent and riot on our sports grounds? Because, you know, to identify all the young people who come to the stadiums and cheer up there with those ringleaders who really heat it up and make it, it's really inappropriate. It is further said - for the sake of more effective conduct of the litigation process, this law is passed. The security measures for the ban on participation, i.e. the presence at sports events, where the reporting measure is also foreseen for a certain period of time to police stations... You heard earlier from our esteemed colleague, Peter Jojic, that it was from 1945 to 1950, and, indeed, I'm afraid that this point of history seems to have moved quickly, that something has returned to some earlier period and that it has some similarity to that period. Then he says he agrees with the proposed amendments to the Law on the Prevention of Violence and Misbehavior at sports events as well as the provisions of the new traffic law. It is truly inconclusive that one of the key reasons for the adoption of this law should be to comply with these laws. We heard Belgrade Mayor Gilas say that if there is any misbehavior on sports grounds, it will simply be impossible for fans to be present on those sports grounds. What does Mr. Gilas prejudge? Does he prejudge any decisions that will be made? Does he already know what will be brought here in the Assembly? Sports events, Mr. Dacic, were held in ancient Rome. They were in ancient Greece too, weren't they? There were riots, even brutal scenes, there was everything. But then the emperors didn't think to stop people from coming to sports fields. Gentlemen of the government, even Slobodan Milosevic did not do it at the time. Do you remember, Mr. Dacic and the government gentlemen, that unfortunate password "Save Serbia and Kill yourself, Free"? After that, only part of the name of those who allegedly were supposed to save Serbia changed after the "Save Serbia and Kill yourself" password. At the time it wasn't hate speech, it wasn't misbehaving, or it was just in a declarative sense. No one had any sanctions from that, right? And now, when other names are mentioned, when they are on the wallpaper of Tadic, Đilas, Dinkic, Djelic and others, it is now already misbehaving, subject to new law, subject to dragon punishment and dragon punishment. Can you see they don't apply the same arches sometimes now? You know, all of this seems to be sending Serbian citizens another message -- that it's very difficult to get off the force and that the boot is easier to wear than out. It is clear to everyone and I think that this message, and through this bill, as well as through the other laws proposed here in the Serbian Parliament, is really very visible. The plea agreement is one institution that was probably taken over in some way, in some modified form, from some American criminal law, from the same America that Mark Teven said in time – it was nice to find America, but it would have been even nicer if Columbus had missed it. That's what Mark Twen said. Whether it's true now or not, I don't know, but I'd say this was taken partly from their criminal legislation. Here they agree on the type of punishment, the amount of punishment, the possible abandonment of prosecution, the costs of a misdemeanor procedure and the denial of the right to appeal. This may result in anarchy rights with regard to the level of criminal sanctions, as regards the amount of the compensation, in respect of the amount of the costs of the proceedings. For what? It will happen to agree and that some serious offences will be subject to minimum punishment, minimum criminal sanctions and minimum costs provided for in this procedure, as well as the costs of the proceedings themselves, and that for much less, much easier offences, where there is no, let's say, agreement, a greater penalty will be imposed. If the legislator's intensities were to be agreed on in every respect, then why the adoption of this bill in this part? The question is who will be the most damaged, who will suffer the most. It's sure to be the poorest of layers. It is true for those who are the perpetrators of these violations, but it will surely be the most difficult for those who do not have enough for dinner, so it will often happen that, according to that saying, when they asked the Greek philosopher when it is best to have dinner, and he says - if you are rich, have dinner whenever you want, and if you are poor, have dinner when you have it. Those most affected by these dragon sanctions will precisely be the poorest layers of the population, which they don't have for dinner. And those who are rich, this law is probably not going to touch either, or it will be quite easy to get over it, and they will, in principle, by that people's law, continue to do as you intend. At first, I said what law enforcement was, I said what this law was about. So I think that the conclusion is finally – strike the hammer with an anvil (in translation - per nation) as hard as possible until the people are able to endure, and as long as it is, we will see.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-21-0.u34443	Ten minutes has been used since the MPs' time. The SRS parliamentary group is still available for 39 minutes. The word has a People's MP, Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-21-0.u34444	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the government's representatives, you've only been looking forward to Serbian citizens for a few days with visa liberalisation, it lasted from St. Nicholas until today, December 21st, and then here we have laws that say - you mustn't do this, you can't do that; if you do that, you'll be punished, if you go to sports events, it can happen to you, too. So, the threat. Now it might be pointless to ask the question, perhaps to Minister Dacic, what does it matter, for example? Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Violence and Misbehavior at Sports Events with the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the State of Israel on visa waiver for their citizens? Maybe there are two first points of the agenda, because you represent these laws on behalf of the government, and there are no other common elements. The subject of my interest in this debate is the Law of Infractions and other laws that touch this law. First of all, I want to say that the offence is a negative social phenomenon that is socially less dangerous than a crime, but very often it can get in the way of individual or social well-being, so it is therefore necessary to prevent and suppress certain laws. In his explanation, the government said three reasons for accession to amendments and additions to the Law on Violations, which was not otherwise long ago, are due to enter into force on 1 January 2010. For the first reason, the need to tighten sanctions is cited, and those sanctions have not been established long ago, has not long been passed by the law, especially since it has not yet entered into force, but the government of the Republic of Serbia feels it should be more drastic to punish its citizens. Then, the second group of reasons for access to the amendments to the Law on Infringements is that the current conduct of the infringement is not sufficiently effective, but the infringement procedure must in no case be equated with the conduct of the criminal proceedings. For the third reason, changes are proposed to prevent violence and misbehave at sports events. So that's one of the reasons for amending this law, and criminal courts are introduced for the first time really as courts. Now, in their jurisdiction, there may be a number of violations and they may give judgments for something that has not been the case so far. As for the manner in which the punishment is prescribed, we have so far had the opportunity to give alternative sanctions, fines or prison sentences in the Law of Infractions. It has been an alternative so far, or one or the other, and now, because of attempts to train strictness towards its citizens, it must be cumulatively possible that there is a possibility that the same offence could be given both fines and prison sentences. The fines are increased several times by a legal person. It seems to me that now they're going to try to say maybe the prison measure to legal persons like the Red Star Sports Society. You haven't thought about it, but maybe you could suggest some of the next changes and additions to this law, and then we could have such a proposal. So far, according to the Law of Infractions, there has been a possible prison sentence of one to 30 days, and now it is proposed to keep a minimum of no less than one day and no more than 60 days. Has an analysis been made whether there will be any specific effects, which would be significant for respecting the positive legal rules if the penalty is increased from 30 to 60 days? I doubt it. It is necessary to act preventively much earlier. It's supposed to be preventative in families, schools. We have a lot of domestic violence, and we can see it every day on electronic media and in the press to read it, but for now we don't solve these problems. And we decided, and that's good, the SRS thinks there's only one situation you can see. Since its founding, the SRS has the principle that party officials cannot participate in sports club administrations. It's known to everyone, and you know we don't even participate in sports organizations' administrations. And it seems to me that it took 20 years to pass since the founding of the DS to first hear from the mayor last night that he thinks that party officials, and even those who have ambitions to take up high state functions, should not be in the boards of sports clubs. You see how late you are, and we here when we analyzed and discussed all the laws, we gave our opinion and suggestions coming directly from the citizens of Serbia. You don't accept it, and you don't care about it. Then work in the public interest. Earlier, ten hours was predicted minimum, and now we increase to 20 hours, and 240 max. It's one of the sanctions that can be imposed on the offender. I'm sure that no one has ever carried out any analysis of whether we've ever had such measures, how many we've had and, after all, what are the effects. If we've already had the law, something that hasn't given certain results at 10 o'clock, it's certain that, if we increase to 20 o'clock, there's no point or need to deal with it, but we need to think about more effective measures to force and affirm that this society would behave in a normal and adequate way. The fines provided for by changes and additions to this law have been increased 10 times. Is now the time to do so and will the expected financial effects be achieved? And I'm guessing the bill promoter had no intention of achieving certain financial effects, but to prevent unwanted consequences, that is to say, to bring as little extent as possible a violation. Now the question is whether it's possible or maybe it's our purpose to actually fill the budget, not to do something else. A reduced period in which a fined person has to pay a fine from six months to three months after a court sentence has been handed down. You're saying the exception is if on the spot he's willing to pay a fine of 500 dinars for a felony. Don't you think, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, that with this law we have something like a New Year's Eve or some other seasonal sale? Still, when we pass these laws, we have to behave a little more seriously. It is possible to apply some extenuating circumstances, and that is precisely now defined, because individualising the punishment in criminal proceedings, as well as in the offence, is the greatest burden and greatest responsibility for the judges who act in this regard. So sometimes it's easier to find out that there's a crime and find a concrete perpetrator and make him guilty, and when the individualization of punishment comes, the application, then there's a little problem. We had a situation that very often sentences were imposed below the legal minimum, and here it is now said that in certain cases a easing circumstance can be applied, but no less than the law envisaged, and I guess that will be respected. In a certain way, there can be said, in addition to prison sentences, fines and certain safeguards, such as the ban on attending sports events, but one question is raised here - which official should have the person who has been given the prohibition of attending certain sports events. Is it the officer on duty, the police chief, who? It's said, if he doesn't answer, he'll trade for a sentence of 30 to 60 days. If the Red Star football games are banned, and they're on average played every 15 days at Red Star Stadium, so the face doesn't pick up a few times, does that mean they'll be in jail all the time? There's another provision that, I think, is wrong. Legal theory disagrees. If a person is sentenced to prison from one year to three, and is given the measure of banning the presence of certain sports events, time spent on prison maintenance will not be included to that extent. That's pointless, because, besides being repressive, it's for a precautionary purpose, and I guess someone's gonna get better in three years, how much punishment he's been given for holding a prison, and that's why it should get into this sentence. We think that the merger of these laws and the newspapers that you're proposing, even though you seem to have achieved some effects so far, will be analyzed. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-21-0.u34445	Ten minutes and 50 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group were used. The word has a folk MP Milan Avramovic, followed by a National MP, Sladjan Mijaljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-21-0.u34446	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will certainly join the discussion on amendments and additions to the Law on the Prevention of Violence and Misbehavior at sports events. What worries me is the fact that lately it's become more of a practice for sports to be written by journalists of black chronicles than sports journalists themselves, and it takes one law to regulate how fans should behave outside the stadium and at the stadium. After all, it doesn't matter what kind of ceremony, there is a law in which violence will be suspended in the best possible way. But we have practice and examples that I'm going to show you that preventing violence doesn't individually affect all cheerleading groups, all the fans' leaders, all the fans, because, in fact, they're all in the same basket. I apologize for using that term. It was put in the context of a social problem only now, when, unfortunately, French Taton was killed. For this reason, the state decided to do something concrete to prevent it. However, the state does not solve it through this law, but deals with those who do not think the same way they do. I'm going to remind you primarily that the president himself has threatened to put an end to the violent, determined reaction of the state authorities. That example showed how he respected this law, but that's what it was about, I don't want to repeat it. I'll discuss it at the end of my discussion. I think the cause and solution of these problems is in some other segments of our social life. No one asked why violence is even being carried out in the stadium, this or that sport. Is that violence caused by any social problem of every fan in the house, at school, in the family, at work...? Is the essence of emptying every fan's negative energy in the stadium any other background or his own love for the club or his hatred for the competitor? What matters is that no one has considered programs that can help remove or minimise violence on the ground. I've noticed in this bill a great legal or weather shortage, as well as possibilities, or holes, that we'd like to say, which allow the police to act maybe and how they shouldn't. Not wanting to personally accuse you, Minister, of anything, especially for the making of this bill, because I know that by means of strange mathematics in the formation of this government, you have received a resolution ministry and that you are here on official duty, I will exclusively address in my discussion DS MPs who raise their hands for something they haven't even read. Article 4 says - under violence and misbehavior at sports events, within the meaning of this law, point 3 is thought to be - entering into sports objects of markings that are insulted by national, racial, religious and other feelings. Let's first take the opportunity to see what other feelings are, how much this term "other feelings" can be used to account for those who don't think the same thing or to deal with some clubs or leaders of some other clubs that are based on police wallpaper rather than other feelings. Point 7 - attempt to enter sports facilities, possession or use of alcohol and other intoxicating agents. There is no variant that pills, drugs or whatever, unfortunately, are used by fans, found when searching and entering the stadium, and you all know that in the stadium, the stands are the place where the store is most of the business and that is exactly why the stadiums need to be dealt with by businessmen, not fans. Point 10 - wearing cheerleading jokes, hats and other objects in order to hide the identity of the face. You know, the term "intentional" opens up a space for major abuses. I've already talked about it, I don't want the same story repeating, so I don't waste any time. Article 8a. Article 1(1) — prohibits access to an object where sports events are held to persons who are under the influence of alcohol or other intoxicating agents, or from their behaviour it can be concluded that they are prone to violent or inappropriate behaviour. Who's gonna lock that up? The redneck who was educated in the ministry? Reddar has an obligation to write a report to the organiser within 24 hours of using his physical strength, and the organiser has an obligation to deliver it to the ministry within 48 hours. So it takes three days for someone to wait to prove that he wasn't prone to bullying or misbehave because some sergeant could've concluded. So again, it's a big space for abuse. As a matter of fact, there are members, these holes, which can be abused more to punish clubs or even fans with certain penalties, cash and prisons, which are not appropriate. What's important is to point out that not only is the fan responsible for the problem at the stadium, especially considering how the police act. The police pick up the nearest, after one night in a cold cell he's ready to sign any statement in the morning to pass it to the judge for the offenses, and then we get to the most important thing, which is that the judge for the offenses doesn't react to the truth either, or to the untrue police or the record or statements, let go of a fan like that, and then it's no wonder we have a problem like we have in the stadiums, which is that one of the same troubled fans feels protected. I must also mention that, as my colleague Munjic said, the way in which the DS was dealt with by fans through patriotic organizations, which is what this media hack through TV B92 has done, has taken so much of a swing that it no longer has control. I will remind you that in these stadiums, these are the same fans who cried out "Save Serbia and Kill yourself, Free", so Kostunica, that they had passwords in which they somehow accused the ruling furniture during that period and that now, when their same mode of action becomes visible, we come to a law that should eliminate it. You are primarily concerned with the fact that the stadiums resemble the names of Serbian heroes such as Ratko Mladic, Radovan Karadzic, Duke Seselj, etc., and this law uses to suspend their free will to say what they think about the current political situation, as well as individuals in The Hague tribunal. It is also important to make a selection between the use of this law and its application to individuals. If the President of the Republic has abused this law and if he has said so himself – I do not know what I signed and if I have wronged some punishment, admitted that he has committed a sin, freed by the republican public prosecutor Slobodan Radovanovic, we are immediately questioning whether Slobodan Radovanovic is on political grounds if he has set the president free as an example of someone who violated this law? For example, I will give you a countercase that Zoran Kavalić, a locksmith from Zrenjanin, has been arrested and punished with 30,000 dinars because he drank a beer can in his car less than 500 metres by the stadium of Vojvodina. He was executed, spent the night and was punished by 30,000 dinars for drinking the can that was closed in his car. Here's his statement, which says that the New Sad judge's solution to the violations found that on September 20th in so many hours near the stadium in Novi Sad, he committed a violation of the Law on the Prevention of Violence and Misbehavior, in which he has all this inscribed on the burden of confession, but here he says: I parked near the stadium and came out of my car with a can of beer that I bought in Zrenjanin and stepped on a sidewalk of boulevards several hundred meters from the Carajordje Stadium. I brought a beer can to drink in front of the game; I wasn't drunk or drinking alcohol on Sunday. When I crossed the street at the field field near the stadium, I was stopped by police officers and told to stand by, along with some other boys and girls who found themselves there. I'm rooting for the Red Star, I'm not a "deal," I wasn't a member of organized cheerleading groups, and I didn't have any cheerleading markings. They asked me what to do with the beer. The cops said we should have a drink, which we did. Then their commander arrived and started yelling – throw a cigarette, throw a beer and line us up by the wall. I've arrived to drink literally two sips, we've signed an arrest warrant, and we've been taken away with a "marital." Here's how the Law works for regular fans, and how this same law works for the president, who said – if I'm wrong, punish me. And since he didn't read this bill, and he signed it, he doesn't know if he was wrong. There is his lawyer, the republican public prosecutor Radovanovic, who explained the president's toast to the historic success of our team at the official reception of the organisation of the sports event. This should not be mixed with the consumption of alcohol by fans who then commit violence and commit crimes, so I absolutely do not see any reason for my reaction - the prosecutor stressed. When you have examples like this that are obvious and the leaders of some cheerleading groups are protected and when you see that neither the judiciary nor the police can do anything (and this is best proven by the action "Sabela", when some are arrested at 12 and 15, and at 15 to 3 they are released), then no wonder how other fans behave. From all of this you can conclude yourself that the fight against fans is not carried out by repressive measures in the stadium, but by generally repressive measures towards violence. Because when you mention pyrotechnics, you mean it everywhere in Serbia, and for the New Year and for the rally, and anyway, not just in the stadium. It will bring you much better results and a much better solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-21-0.u34447	11 minutes and 10 seconds of the Parliament's time spent. The People's Messenger Sladjan Mijaljević has the word, and he is the last reported speaker.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-21-0.u34448	Excuse me, Chairman, how much time do I have?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-21-0.u34449	Seventeen minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-21-0.u34450	I'm really glad that tonight we have the honor of seeing two ministers in the cabinets for the government, because it's still more inspiring to speak in front of ministers than just in front of government officials who record or notify what we say here. We have a set of 24 laws that are packed into three points and we are coming into that situation that we in the SRS are talking about, that we have entered into a phase of really great lawmaking, and the question is how high these laws are. We come into a situation that after only a few months, possibly a year, as this law on the prevention of violence in sport has come back on the agenda, and during the first work on the laws, we submit a large number of amendments, that our amendments, I mean the opposition, are rejected, of course just because the opposition submitted them, or a small number is accepted, so that after some time these amendments will re-enter the procedure and when the law is completed, after a few months or a year, these amendments will be incorporated into the new bill. Here, today at this first point in the principle debate we're talking about 11 laws, six of which are amendments and additions -- so more than 50%. So the question is how justified it is, well, and how much money was spent there, in terms of law-making. How good is it when after a while we have to rebuild and process it? Of course, the key question, the main question, the question of all the questions is who implements these laws, whether they are implemented, what statistics say. Today over 80% has been spent, perhaps 85% of the time on the law to prevent violence in sports, as far as I think. It's just amazing that after a year we come back into the same situation, to talk about the same subject again, on the one hand, and on the other hand, those who need to enforce the law, and the previous and the one that was brought in a year ago, they didn't implement it. And in this media hack, which has been going on for several weeks to maybe bring someone a more political point, we've been able to hear how many of these laws are being implemented or not, that some of the fans' leaders at times when the police arrest them and bring them in for not to arrest them, because their dads are their colleagues and so on. At one of the previous sessions of the Sports and Youth Committee, I received information from the Minister of Sport about how much the rights of punishment - monetary, prison and so on - are really given to the detainees. About 10-15% of the misdemeanors brought in are actually sanctioned. So it's not a mistake for us to bring it here. As much as it is less or more of a quality, it's even more of a problem that it's not being carried out where it's supposed to be carried out. We can bring in hundreds of thousands of laws here, but if we don't have the answer in the judiciary as it should be, you've done it for nothing. So, I'm going to talk primarily about the law on preventing violence in sports. I apologize to the government's representatives, I will most likely repeat, perhaps even more than once, because several colleagues have spoken about this law today, over 80% of the time has been spent on this law, but I, as a sports worker, a sports official and a pedagogist in sports, have the right to say something, and at this point I express really the strictest opposition that certain committees are not respected in such a way that certain laws are not sent to them for consideration, as has happened with this law. The session of the Sports and Youth Committee is scheduled for tomorrow. The only item of the agenda is the law on preventing violence in sports, and this law literally arrived overnight on the agenda of today's session. We'll meet tomorrow, talk, have coffee, apologize on this subject, but MPs won't be able to get an opinion. The question is also how much of what we're going to say on the board tomorrow will be appreciated or unrespectable. So the legal profession had a higher priority in writing these amendments and supplementing this law, but we who are educators in sports have the right to say a word on this subject. It's not nice to be around us in such a, even brutal way. I'm going to go after certain members now. In Article 5, he says, "The organizer of sports events is obliged to educate an appropriate directorial service or to hire a legal person or entrepreneur to perform physical security and order activities at a sports event." So the question is very serious. Just imagine that at a football game at Red Star Stadium, where, say, it's between 30,000 and 50,000 fans, it's already a high risk, how much it's supposed to be. I'm also asking a question here – is it possible to run away from the responsibility of certain institutions, primarily think of the MUP, that part of the responsibility, and a very serious part, is being transferred to a regular service, to some companies, businesses, or, what do they call themselves, security agencies, or, as it stands here, even some entrepreneurs, who will report to provide certain high-risk events? So, at one game at Red Star Stadium, the director's office right now must count at least 200 people, maybe more. What kind of redistribution service is this, and what are their priorities that they must carry out in the future, according to this bill? He says he'll train them and license the police department. Who can, and for what time, train the director's office better than the police unit, the gendarmes, or what is the name of that part of the police training and training to break up demonstrations daily, to suppress hooligan behavior? In doing so, they have certain means of coercion, they have shields, bats, sticks with handles -- tomphs, binders, and these are people who have been trained for years for the job. Now you want that part of the job done by some clerk. In doing so, the police are protected, they have helmets, they are armored with certain hard plastics. They've been taught, trained and practiced daily to team up, not individually. Do you have any idea how long it takes you to train the directorial service to team up to suppress hooligan behavior in the stands? When there's a certain fight, where the medieval battles are literally performed, where they're struck by objects (who gets what they get and what they get) - do you think some sergeant is going to run into that mass? Almost killed a cop two years ago in that same stadium, the one who's trained (who knows how much work experience he's had before) to assess the psychology of the masses, certain people who approach him, not approach him, whether they surround him or not. What's a sergeant gonna do in shoes, trainers or jeans and with that yellow vest over his back that says "redar"? You're about to put a target on them. Who will approach the cheerleading leader and say, "Calm down, don't let me rip your ears off!"? What about that director tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, in a month, in a year? How will he be protected from certain hooligans, from which even the police are not protected? Let's ask another question - how much should this licensed director's service be, say, just here in Belgrade? Well, only at five Star football games, Partizana, Beograd, some first, second, third leagues need several thousand licensed directors in one day, who need to meet their needs. I think this is a very clumsy solution, that it should be done or at least avoided the kind of solution you wanted to offer here. In Article 6. The bill says - when performing physical security and maintaining order at a sports event, the director's office is obliged to... , so point 9) does not allow access to a sports object with a security measure, i.e. a protective measure of the ban on attending certain sports events. For example, in a year, one thousand fines for a thousand persons are imposed, not to be present for a certain period of time at certain sports events. Can these directors remember a thousand people who are supposed to be banned from entering those sports events? How are they gonna get to remember that? What if there's more? I think you've overly unseriously pushed the director's service into a very, very serious job, and you've protected yourself by protecting yourself by making security contractors, physically and technically, as well as organizers -- the dragonish to punish. In Article 8, the organizer is obliged to... , so point 2) of all the information it has in connection with the sport event shall be notified immediately and no later than 48 hours before the start of the sports event by the Ministry and other competent authorities, the competent sports association and other interested sports organisations and, if necessary, athletes who participate in the sport event. It now turns out that certain organizers, alliances or leaders of a football club or the director of some stadium must have maltene to have some kind of intelligence service that must infiltrate the ranks of fans in order to get some information in time, to find out what they have prepared from pyrotechnics, from flags, from not knowing what everything, whether they will organize themselves before the start of the game, whether they will come organized by tearing down cars or just singing fan songs and so forth. And what if he finds out about this, say, two or three hours before the game? Will he be responsible for not informing law enforcement at least 48 hours before the start of the game? Article 10, pre-lated position – the organiser is obliged to prevent the entry into the sports event of persons who do not possess an identification document, i.e. persons under the age of 16 who are not accompanied by a full-time person. We're all talking about big sports events today, big stadiums, about ten, twenty, thirty, fifty thousand people in stadiums. What about the little sports events? What about sports facilities that can receive several thousand, or just a few hundred viewers, where those sports that are primarily organised in the halls are organized? What about sports events organized for children aged 10 to 14 or 16? Get together from elementary school or high school, they want to watch their buddy compete in judo, karate, tequondu. Will all those under 16 have to beg their moms and dads to take them to watch friends compete in such a competition, or a sporting event? I think you've had to be a little more specific, more serious, with more aspects of seeing things. In Article 12, says (e, this is already a scandal) – a suitable space for the on-call judge, public prosecutor and authorised person of the Ministry responsible for maintaining public order and peace at a sports event from which they have a clear overview of the sports field and theatre and access to equipment from point 7 of this attitude, etc. What are we making out of sports facilities, stadiums, sports halls? We're making Pinochet's collection centers. As a former athlete, a sportsman and a sports pedagogue insults me to have a court at the sports center. I spent hours and hours, weeks, months, I left blood, sweat and tears on the floor, and it insults me to arrange a trial in that space. That's where we hang out, that's where we have fun, that's where we love each other, that's where we compete and that's where we're happy to leave all that. When you throw politics out of cheerleading groups, there won't be this much hooliganism. That's one. Under two, our athletes and sports workers will be released... I was even a sports judge. Doesn't mean that when I'm not an MP, I won't keep doing it. That offends me. I want to be a judge and judge by the sports rules, not a public prosecutor and one of his assistants who's going to have three or four cells where they're going to organize, at that assembly center, a trial on the spot, like God forbids war, so we're going to go to a court of law. Arrest the hooligan, handcuff him, plastic on his hands, in the march, judge him where you have it all organized. Why do we have to tarnish everything in this country of Serbia? If you have courts, if you have prisons, put them in jail, judge them in court. Don't judge them by the locker rooms, by the offices. What are we gonna do, kick the economy out of his warehouse so the judge can sit there to judge? It's a scandal. I already said, you protected yourself by giving the organizers more than a dragon's sentence. They're moving from one million to two million dinars. Do you think two million is a lot for "Star" and "Partizan" football clubs? It's not. And find me any state union in the Republic of Serbia -- boxing, karate, turquoise, judo -- that can pay you two million for what some hooligan accidentally came by the street, made on the ground, and now I have to answer, as a sports worker, a official who organizes a certain event. Not only do I have to pay two million, I have to get 60 days in jail. You know when, as a sports worker, when I'm no longer an MP, I'm going to sign any sports event with this law? Never. I'm here to help the children develop, to train someone to be the first somewhere tomorrow, to stand on the victory stand with our national anthem, and you're here to sanction those who jump out at a certain point. Not for you to sanction us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-21-0.u34451	People's MP, the time at your disposal has been used. Thank you. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, and before the search is concluded, I ask if they want the word of the president, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, or someone who has not used his right under Article 93. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly? Does anyone want a word? Government representatives? Yeah. ) The word has Minister Ivica Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-21-0.u34452	I won't miss the chance to answer, because whenever I get here, I always stay to the end, but I never wait for those who initially asked me to share an opinion. Perhaps the solution is that the heads of the parliamentary groups speak at the end of the debate. I've been an MP since 1992. I suppose the parliamentary work is extremely difficult and difficult, but I wanted to observe this debate until the end and I stayed here to answer some of the questions concerning those laws of the Ministry of the Interior. As legislators of this law, we have not affected how and in the context of the joint debates on these laws. We felt it was necessary to propose these laws as soon as possible. I would like to point out, you may not have paid enough attention to this in your day-to-day parliamentary activities, but the debate on these laws has been going on for a long period of time. As early as March of this year, as I said, the government's conclusion was that we started the whole story of turning our protection and rescue sector into an emergency sector of the MUP, which would unite all the resources that exist in the country that are currently dealing with these issues. We felt that this was necessary even without any concrete and visible cause. Because it's usually a visible cause of a disaster that happens and usually about these disasters we're discussing about who's wrong and where's wrong, and then we analyze, like when this tragedy was on a bridge on Tisa (I wasn't a minister at the time), and then we discuss who's in charge, whether one ministry, another ministry, some public enterprises, local self-government, etc. Unfortunately, we live in a world where disasters, natural disasters and natural disasters are almost daily and where no one can ever say in advance when something will happen. Something can't be prevented, something can, but for any kind of situation, it needs to be prepared. Given that the laws in this area were passed decades ago, we felt it was necessary to propose this kind of law as soon as possible. Because we predicted that since 1 January of next year, the Emergency Sector is operating within the framework of the MUP. That's what we had an agreement with the D.O.D. There is General Delic, and I want to introduce him to the fact that the Ministry of Defence has actively participated from the beginning to the end in drawing up this law on emergency situations. In view of all these questions that he has asked, all of this has been considered in detail. I would also like to point out that this is a public debate in four centres in Serbia: Belgrade, Nis, Novi Sad and Kragujevac. Representatives of 126 municipalities in Serbia participated in the public debate. I'm sorry that wasn't heard by those who asked that question today at the beginning of this debate. I hope someone tells them that. I'm sorry you didn't have enough time to, as MPs, possibly propose some changes and additions. I've been informed that 70 and some amendments have been filed under these two laws. We're going to look at them and everything that's in the interest of improving our basic idea -- we're ready to accept. When I spoke of politics and expertise, of course, I believe that a politician, in order to be a good politician, should be professional, but I believe that this kind of law, as well as a large part of the work that the MUP is dealing with, is not a political issue, but, above all, a question that affects all citizens of this country. So when we talk about this topic, the regulations in this area are not written from a political aspect, but based on what the need of a state is right now. So when it comes to fire protection and emergency situations, I think we're going to do everything we do in the coming period in the interest of all citizens, which is to prevent and to organise ourselves best we know to eliminate the consequences of emergency situations and to respond quickly to fires. You saw that our Emergency Sector and the Protection and Rescue Sector reacted very quickly and prevented the tragic consequences in several cases in the previous period. In a fire at Dragisa Misovic Hospital, our fire departments literally arrived in a few minutes and prevented the tragedy. In Uzica, during the explosion, we couldn't prevent the loss of human lives, but we did everything to put out the fires that occurred after the explosion. Also, in Kragujevac, when the flag caught fire, we reacted very quickly. It's something that citizens need. And therefore, I have already said, investment, investment and good legislation in this area will return multiple times to citizens through an efficient system of fire protection and the removal of the consequences or the prevention of what falls within the broad term of emergency situations. Somewhere in the world it's called different, somewhere it's about disasters, somewhere it's about emergency situations. Basically, emergency situations in this area have nothing to do with any state of emergency or any military or police dictionary. It's just a situation that gets out of regular control, and in this situation, it's necessary to know who commands and what resources, in order to get out of a situation where everyone's usually in some kind of confusion. Here, as you know, if you have carefully studied this law, the system 112 is being introduced. It is already a standard of the European Union. We're not doing it now because of the EU, to understand each other, we're doing it for us. But what I'm saying is that in a few things that are important to us in the area of internal affairs, in the police (and the fire sector, or the Emergency Protection and Rescue Sector, are not within the framework of the police, but within the framework of the MUP), we're moving on to system 112, which will unite the system 92, 93 and 94. This means that every citizen will be able, by calling for number 112, to have an adequate reaction, any emergency situation or any event that is at stake. Of course, that system has yet to be introduced and it is not technologically or as simple as that. That means there's both firemen and the police and ambulances and everything that can come out of it. Not to answer all the questions now, I'll probably be there when there's a debate in particular. When it comes to what's now being defined in public as some kind of Russian humanitarian base, I want to be completely accurate and open. You know that a few years ago, when there was a big fire on the Old Mountain, that fire was extinguished thanks to Russian help. I have to say one more time, and the people sitting next to me were at those functions and at the time when it was happening, that's when the fires needed Russian help. In fact, the surrounding countries are all small, medium-developed or medium-developed, however, and none of these countries have enough resources to react alone in the event of an emergency. The whole idea of forming a regional emergency response centre in Southeast Europe has arisen from thinking that various countries are helping in these emergency situations. That idea is only in the phase of consideration. It is, as an idea, part of an agreement signed by our two ministries on the visit of Russian President Dmitri Medvedev. It's about a humanitarian base or a regional emergency response center, where fire extinguishing equipment, flood rescue, earthquakes, slides, food reserves, drugs, humanitarian demining, so to speak. It's not the idea to be any military base or have anything to do with... Here is the idea of being an absolute civilian and, of course, with an open invitation to participate in other countries in the region. So, Minister Shoygu and I sent letters to all interior ministers in the region, from Italy, Croatia, to Bulgaria, Greece, etc., to discuss the question that we all participate together in the formation of such a regional centre that we would all benefit from. In February, a meeting should be held here in Belgrade, where the countries would declare whether they wanted to participate in all this. But, independently, we also talk to other international factors, with various organisations and institutions, from the Partnership for Peace and NATO, via the EU, or the European Commission, which has a ministry, or a commissioner (as Commissioners are concerned) dealing with emergency situations, or disasters. Today I was in Shid, where we ended up demining the Shid municipality. The main word in the donation was the United States, Norway and other countries, just as our rescue units have joint training and great help with the French units, which are the most equipped in the world and most trained when it comes to saving from the ruins. When these issues are on the agenda, it absolutely has nothing to do with any military aspects, even when it comes to, for example, the ceasefire in some neighbouring countries. Military helicopters, for example, can't go to help, but our, uh, police, who are civilian, are involved in all this because, as you know, military use, which is kind of the use of the military, it's necessary to make decisions in parliament. When it comes to other issues, I don't want to open other issues right now, I just want to say that every law is in some way a bit of a restriction on freedom. As the philosophers said a hundred or two years ago, when dealing with philosophy was considered something that man was particularly proud of, unlike the practical time in which we live today, every tree can grow to heaven, but it does not grow. Every law, for example. The law on freedom of the press, in fact, is a law on restricting freedom of the press. Here, when we talk about all these laws, and also about the law to prevent violence in sports or sports events, etc., it is very important to establish clear rules of the game in which it will all work. The proposer of this law is this time the Ministry of Justice. I also spoke with UEFA President Michel Platini, who also wanted to help, in terms of providing expert advice by UEFA, how those countries where these things were happening have dealt with. But I'm sure Mr. Jovanovic, who isn't present, was right when he said today, and it's true that it can't be just police work. Pendrek should be the last thing anyone uses before he drains any other means. Because first, you need to use your head and all the possibilities. That's why we need a consensus, but I don't think we have a consensus. We didn't have it here today, because, you can see, in all the debates, we can't get what we really want, what values we stand for, what kind of state we want to make. Everyone wants the police to solve all the questions that exist. Politics must be before the police. All of you who are involved in politics, including me, must take responsibility for what values we are fighting for today in Serbia. It seems to me that no one is ready to take over, but every measure is the size of his rating and looks at how something will turn in plus or minus when everything is added up, when elections come. That's why we're coming to this situation, that today in one discussion you're sailing from absolute support to fighting hooligans, and finally to the sentence that God has given us the power to fight the people and we don't have to fight the people. I have to tell you that the SPS isn't, as someone here said, DS satellite. We're partners. I'm sure there's a bigger DS satellite in this room than the SPS. Anyway, I'm the Home Secretary and I'm responsible for this resort. As far as we're concerned, we will perform professionally with everything in our hands and respect the laws. You're absolutely right - while you have a hammer, you should hit. The power is either being exercised or being given to others. In any case, when it comes to these matters of emergency and fire protection, I will ask my associates who are most responsible for what this law is written at all, to consider all these amendments that have been filed. I suppose most of them can be accepted, but I'm also asking you to root out the corruption that exists in the application of those laws. How many times has it happened, like it was when the Traffic Safety Act was passed... I also want to say to this occasion that there are a lot of urgency coming from different people across Serbia who call me the Ministry and me a minister to let go of something -- so everything that's about these fire departments is not right. But let's just let the facility go as soon as possible, so someone can open something, etc. Or someone thinks they can buy something. It can't anymore, it's over. We arrested a number of border police and customs officers today. We can't talk about fighting corruption and crime without tolerateing it in our ranks. That's why even here, when we talk about this law, if we want a responsible relationship with this, no one in Serbia can get a useful permit for any object unless they have fully respected what we have written in these laws. I tell that to my assistant and he will personally be responsible if he does things differently in the MUP, because we are playing with the lives of citizens. You know there were several hundred patients at Dragisa Misovic Hospital, that the fire happened, and they could all get hurt, and the building hasn't even been released yet. We need to root out corruption, just like when it comes to the Traffic Safety Act. Someone here mentioned Mr. Chank. I'm telling you, I gave you a warrant to examine which segments constitute a violation of the Traffic Safety Act what he did. In any case, in this country, they are all equal before the law, as you have seen, from ordinary citizens to president of the Republic. There are no exceptions. If it's someone's violation of the law, they'll be filed against him. Everyone should be responsible. And if there's a hole in the law, it needs to change that law as soon as possible. I agree with what you said. It's not the fan's problem, or the hooligans from today or yesterday. He's been around a long time. It was a hate speech back then, as it is now. If we want to be objective, we can't define our opinions depending on where we sit, here or there, but we need to be correct and principled. Many of these cheerleading groups were not only part of the cheerleading group and hooligans, but participated in various parts of political life and various political gatherings. Of course, anyone can think he's got some credit. As far as we're concerned, no one should be the victim, that force is applied to him for no reason, but be assured, we will not tolerate hooliganism, or violence, and no one will be privileged, regardless of whether anyone from his family works... I'll tell you about one of those who's been arrested right now. His wife works at the MUP, but he's under arrest. A Serbian Army member, an active officer, was arrested today. There must be a serious fight against it. When it comes to redistribution, not to forget, we didn't ask for it. There's Mrs. Malovic, she'll talk more widely about it, I'll just point out that we didn't propose this directorial service from the MUP. That was the Council's proposal to fight violence. In fact, sports organisations considered and insisted on the directorial service, not only did the police do that part of the job. We barely got into everything that they said at least that part, to train and license all of it, because I agree with you that it's too risky for someone to take on such a job right now. We're not getting out of this. On the contrary, I am convinced that what has been proposed, that these are experiences that exist in some countries, that nothing proposed here has been invented in Serbia, but that in some ways time has passed in those countries that have already been through such a period of fight against violence. I want to thank everyone. I think the debate we had today was very serious. I'm really sorry that, probably because of the time it takes to complete the session, it's short notice of time to be able to submit more amendments, but I say once again, these laws are very important, because that's where we can reach a consensus in this country, or that we don't look at whether someone gets or loses political points. I was on the escalator the night of the tragedy. There are no more political points. There's something you need to be involved in. That's, unfortunately, part of my job too. After a month or two, there was a fire there again, during the work to resuscitate what happened. It's unserious to do that. And not only is it unserious, it has to be sanctioned because no one can play with people's lives. That's why we need to know who's doing what in these situations. The main problem is when chaos occurs in one country, and chaos occurs in natural disasters and disasters. You can't even imagine what a disaster could be. When information funds may be lost, the media, when communication is lost, must know how the system works. That's why we proposed this kind of law. Not because we're announcing some disasters, but we simply have to be prepared to organize ourselves properly, not that after that, we all complain and blame each other. I'm sorry that I don't have the opportunity to personally share my thoughts with those who spoke at the beginning of today's debate and I want to thank all of you who stayed until the end. I hope you didn't stay because you respected party discipline, but because these are serious topics.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-21-0.u34453	The word is made by Justice Minister Snezana Malovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-21-0.u34454	I would like to begin by thanking all the MPs who participated in the discussion on these draft laws, especially those who have tabled amendments. I also want to apologize for not being able to attend at all times this session. Given that there are continuing obligations in the Supreme Council of the judiciary and the State Council of Prosecutors to establish a new network of courts, I believe this will be an apologising reason. I will seek to be present at the debate on amendments all the time because I consider it my primary obligation as a member of the government and someone in charge of the justice tribunal's portfolio on behalf of the Justice Department. I want to explain in short lines what I have heard so far and what my associates have told me. I tried to be explicit and extensive at the beginning of the debate, but I want to give some more explanations. The first part of the explanation refers to a set of laws that should lead to violence at sports events being minimalized and, not being that much utopian, shut down, but certainly minimized. As my esteemed colleague Dacic said, they are not the fruit of our thinking, but of what we had in the experience of European countries that faced this monster, primarily in England, France, etc., so that we tried to apply their experience and practice to these laws. Also, I must quite honestly tell you that it is not easy for me to propose amendments to the Criminal Code over a very short period of time, which should be something that provides legal certainty and stability in this country, but simply the unfavorable events in the previous period have led us to propose amendments to this law. These events were several in the recent past, culminating in the murder of a foreign citizen, leaving an ugly mark on our country's reputation, because Serbia, especially Belgrade, is not known for not loving foreigners. Foreigners have always been welcome here, and all of this has been very difficult for us, and I trust all the MPs in this honored home. I also want to say that proposing these laws was the obligation of the Ministry of Justice, based on the National Security Council's conclusion. The ministry of justice was not only working on it, other state authorities participated, especially the MUP, which is also sufficiently discussed by colleagues Dacic. In this regard, the draft laws were also on the Council for Combating Violence, chaired by the Prime Minister, and many members of these draft laws were just the result and certain demands of members of the council. I deeply believe that these laws will produce results in practice and, as my colleague Dacic said, they are something that represents a repressive part. What is a preventive part, it is in all segments of society and there are thoughts that even a certain resolution within the National Assembly is adopted, so that all segments, all political actors stand behind it. I would also like to give some clarifications on the Law on Transport of immovableity. It's also a phenomenon that's taken a lot of swings in our reality -- that apartments and immovableities are sold multiple times, that they're the result of various double-crossing actions. We've made a lot of contributions to the press about it. This bill may not get in the way of this, but we will certainly go against it, because contracts will have to be certified in one place, in that court whose territory is immobility. I am pleased to say that in the beginning of next year, all courts will be networked. There will be an automatic handling program, so that the courts will be able to verify whether a specific contract is certified or not. As regards the Law on the Prosecution, as I said in the previous presentation, it is a law proposed in view of our obligations to comply with the Constitution, on the one hand, but also, which is also important to emphasise, because of the new network of courts and jurisdiction of the basic and higher court. This is just the first step in changing our litigation legislation. The justice ministry intends to propose a whole new law on litigation during the following year, which will be in line with European standards, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, contribute to a more effective procedure in litigation procedures. Sadly, it is not rare for us to be guided for a very long time. We've had a case run for 30 years, which means two or three generations in the family are dealing with one litigation procedure. We at the Department of Justice are both prepared and willing to deal with it. Once again, I thank all the MPs who participated in the debate. We will look closely at the amendments, and we will not hesitate to adopt anything that contributes to consistency or improvement of text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-21-0.u34455	I'm concluding a joint principle and uniform search. For today, we finish our work and continue tomorrow, December 22nd, at 10:00 p.m. Thank you. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the 7th session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 86 MPs. I remind you, Article 86 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provide that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly in the adoption of the minutes and the establishment of the agenda exists if at least 126 MPs are present at the session, while 84 MPs are required for regular work. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the MPs' units. Here you go. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 86 MPs are present in the hall, which is a condition laid down by the Rules of Procedure that we can begin today's work. On Tuesdays and Thursdays only after the opening of the session and the establishment of the number of MPs attending the session, and before moving to a further debate, the session was defined by Article 235(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which refers to the request for information and explanations. ''The National MP shall have the right to request information and explanations from the President of the National Assembly, the chairman of the Committee of the National Assembly, ministers and officials in other republican bodies and organisations on the issues covered by the rights and duties of these officials, from the authority of the authorities at which they are headed, and which he shall need in order to fulfil the functions of the MP, except at the session of the National Assembly. Exceptionally, the President, or the authorised representative of the parliamentary group, may also exercise the right under Article 1 at the session of the National Assembly, orally, in one address, for up to five minutes, on Tuesdays and Thursdays, immediately after the opening of the session and the establishment of the number of MPs attending the session, and before moving to a further debate.' Do any of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wish to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 235? I would like to inform you that for the DSS parliamentary group, the mandated representative is MP Slobodan Samardzic, who wants a word.
