ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-31-0.u16799	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I wanted to ask questions, first of all, to Prime Minister Cvetkovic. Public enterprises in this country reported a loss for 2008 of several billion dinars. Budgets going towards colleges, education have been cut; there is no money for medicines, for health care; new taxes are introduced, VAT increases, and we have multimillion-dollar ads in one daily list, ads made by state-based public enterprises. I wanted to ask Mr Cvetkovic if he was familiar with the fact that three public enterprises, such as MTS mobile phone, Telekom, Lutria Serbia, are advertised in the daily list "Justice"? These are the only advertisers in the daily list, which has a miserly circulation, in the daily newspaper that runs the anti-European policy, in the daily list that is controlled by Aleksandar Vukic, in the daily list whose editor-in-chief, Predrag Popovic, was the same editor-in-chief of the "Nacional", who was banned during the emergency. I wanted to ask a question – does Mr Cvetkovic know that the owner of "Nacional" was Dusan Spasojevic Shiptar, that Predrag Popovic, who is also the editor-in-chief of the list "Justice" today, announced the murder of Prime Minister Djindjic on 12 March 2003? I wanted to ask further – does Mr. Cvetkovic have any information on whether the Justice daily has settled all its obligations to the state, when the state can advertise such millions of ads in that list? I further wanted to ask Prime Minister Cvetkovic if he knows that all three companies I mentioned are working with Srdjan Saper, adviser to President Boris Tadic, in the closest possible way? We are deeply convinced that President Boris Tadic does not know about all this, that he is doing all this behind his back, because it is impossible for someone to finance the "Justice" list, which runs an anti-European policy, which is fighting against Serbia's official policy, and this is the state's money. Citizens are interested, if we're in such a crisis, I repeat, if there are no drugs, there's no money for colleges, then there's money to advertise public enterprises in that daily list, which I think we've talked about enough. If a government minister, or Prime Minister Cvetkovic, does not give us an answer within two days as to how it is possible for public enterprises (which are, by the way... Not specifically this one, but generally a huge loss has been shown) advertised in the daily "Justice", for millions of amounts, so every day we're going to ask these questions, every Tuesday and every Thursday, until we get an answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-31-0.u16800	Gentlemen, I should now give my word to Mr Miroslav Markic, but he cannot speak from his place because he does not actually sit in his seat, in accordance with the decision of the Administrative Committee. I would ask the MPs of the SRS, with whom I, by the way, held a conversation before the beginning of the session, which are MPs in line behind Mrs Pop-Lazic, Radete and Mr Todorovic, to take their seats in line with the decision of the Administrative Committee, which is binding for all of us, so that we can continue our work. Mr. Todorovic, before I give you my word, I would ask you to take your seats, in accordance with the decision of the Administrative Board. (Dragan Todorovic, from the place: You cannot blackmail me. I answered when you asked if anyone was answering in accordance with Article 235. But you wouldn't let me say what I had. ) Because of the breach of Article 106, the final position, and Article 104. I give notices to MPs Dragan Todorovic, Gordani Pop-Lazic, Vjerica Radeti, Sulejman Spah, Zoran Krasic, Vladan Jeremic, Milan Nikolic, Zoran Popovic, Goran Mihajlovic, Dragan Stevanović, Lidija Vukicevic, Ljubisa Petkovic, Dusan Maric, Radisa Ilic and Dobrislav Prelic. I ask the Members, in accordance with the notice, to take their seats in accordance with the decision of the Administrative Committee. I would like to inform the public and MPs that I have proposed to the members of the SRS, or parliamentary groups, to launch an initiative to eventually create a new deployment, which we should also respect, which has not been done. I note that the members of the SRS took part in the decision of the Administrative Committee... (Dragan Todorovic, from the place: It is a lie. You deceive Serbian citizens. ) The decision of the Administrative Board, otherwise, has been unanimously taken and to change it, it is necessary to make an initiative, so that I ask the Members of the SRS to sit in accordance with the existing decision, to work today, or to make the initiative to amend that decision in a valid manner, in accordance with the procedure, so that we can continue to work. [[Zagor in the O.R.]] I give a second warning to MPs Dragan Todorovic, Gordani Pop-Lazic, Verica Radeti, Sulejman Spah, Zoran Krasic, Vladan Jeremic, Milan Nikolic, Zoran Popovic, Goran Mihajlovic, Dragan Stevanović, Lidija Vukicevic, Ljubisa Petkovic, Dusan Maric, Radisa Ilic and Dobrislav Prelic. Now I ask you, indeed, to do everything in accordance with the decision of the Administrative Committee and to take your place so that MPs of the other parliamentary groups can take their seats in accordance with that decision. I express the measure of taking the words from Dragan Todorovic, Gordani Pop-Lazic, Verica Radeti, Sulejman Spah, Zoran Krasic, Vladan Jeremic, Milan Nikolic, Zoran Popovic, Goran Mihajlovic, Dragan Stevanović, Lidija Vukicevic, Ljubisa Petkovic, Dusan Maric, Radisa Ilic and Dobrislav Prelic. (Applause by the MPs of the SRS. ) Gentlemen of the Serbian Radical Party, you know that the next measure is a distance from the session and that I am obliged to apply the Rules of Procedure. I ask you not to give that measure, but to take your seats in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, or to make an objection or suggestion to the Administrative Committee. We could interrupt the session and have the Management Board consider your suggestion. (Dragan Todorovic, from the seat: Stop the session.) ) If you are willing to enter any procedure, then I fully agree that the Administrative Committee is considering your proposals, possibly, but in a formal tone and procedure that is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. I express the measure of distance from session Dragan Todorovic, Gordani Pop-Lazic, Verica Radeti, Sulejman Spah, Zoran Krasic, Vladan Jeremic, Milan Nikolic, Zoran Popovic, Goran Mihajlovic, Dragan Stevanović, Lidija Vukicevic, Ljubisa Petkovic, Dusan Maric, Radisa Ilic and Dobrislav Prelic. I'm taking a 15-minute break. [[After a break.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, obviously we have no conditions to continue our work today. I would just like to inform you and the public that a decision on the seating schedule was made at the board meeting on 5 March 2009. National MPs Aleksandar Martinovic, Dejan Mirovic and Milan Radovanovic participated from the SRS. The decision was reached unanimously. (Protests by the MPs of the SRS. I'm asking the heads of parliament to come to the meeting in O.R. for a deal. We interrupt the session and continue work tomorrow at 10:00.
