ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u27801	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam President, you warmly recommended that I write you all the problems related to the SRS and the fact that there are MPs in this House first and second order. Unfortunately, I haven't been able to write to you, but I will now present to you the problem that happened yesterday on the Committee on Foreign Affairs, when a delegation was appointed for the visit to the Parliament of the Netherlands, where members of the Committee on European Integration and the Committee on Foreign Affairs were to go. A delegation has been proposed, three DS MPs have been proposed, not to enter those who are still MPs, however, there are no SRS MPs, although we have board members on either committee. Now I ask the question: on what principle do you determine delegations? You're responsible for this, you, as president of the Parliament. Your time will be marked by the fact that individual parties are completely marginalised and that you do not respect what the Serbian citizens said in the May 2008 elections. Whether someone likes or doesn't like SRS MPs, it's, I mean, a completely peripheral thing. As president of the assembly, you are obliged to respect the will of Serbian citizens, this suggests that already by who knows which path is trampled so brutally by DS representatives. I warn you, you need to take care of it, because when all this is over, normally you'll be held accountable by you, as president of the Assembly, not some athlete, a hockey player, who's the president of the Committee, who's already written a lot of things in his biography, so that one of these things, more or less, will mean nothing to him, but you'd have to take care of it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u27802	Mr. Todorovic, the Committee and members of the committee have responsibility for forming a delegation. When I last formed a delegation, and otherwise I do, I take care of representation in the delegation of members and one and the other half of this Parliament, because we are, in fact, so divided because of the fragile parliamentary majority in a number of states. To illustrate this, I will tell you that I offered your MP, Ms. Marina Ragush, to be in the delegation and that she said she would let you know if she could accept it, and that it depends on the position of your party's president, or party, so she did not report at the time when she was due to report. And that's why you weren't in that delegation. What's in the specific case you're talking about, I'll ask around. In any case, I will do whatever it takes to assess that all parliamentary groups and real opportunities have not been taken care of. Mrs Natasa Jovanovic has a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u27803	I have a line for you, Madam President, because this information that you provide for Mrs Ragush is partly accurate, and this information that you did not get to know, or the fact that the president of our parliamentary group spoke about, is a scandal that took place in the Assembly, the right force that was present yesterday on the Committee on Foreign Affairs. And in my response in such a scandalous way of assembling a delegation from the two committee members, where they work intensively and contribute their contribution to the SRS, Dragoljub Micunovic, at the Committee session, because of my reaction that it is not democratic, that it is not the reciprocity of representation, that we are the largest opposition group of MPs, that you, in addition, have kidnapped the parliamentary mandates, but that we cannot allow any marginalisation, has given us a warning. I need to tell you what the purpose of that visit is. The aim of the visit is to address parliamentarians of the Netherlands in a day-long stay in parliament of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, in order to influence the Dutch government to weaken pressure on Serbia, all due to the fact that the Dutch are pressing Serbia over General Ratko Mladic and insufficient co-operation with The Hague tribunal. Madam President, is there any greater example and evidence of incompetence and, in fact, of the farce and the force applied in this quasi-sud than the victim and of the fact that seven years in that casamat the president of our party, Dr Vojislav Seselj, who broke the Hague and there was almost nothing left there or stone on the stone? Please, is it normal for you to form a delegation where there is no party representative whose president is living proof that it is a quasi-institution, that there is no respect for international law, that this is the force that was formed to be exclusively tried by the Serb people? [[Applause]] Besides, the president of your party was killed there. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u27804	The word is Mrs. Hope Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u27805	Dear Madam President, dear fellow Members of Parliament, I would like to say that by respecting the will of the citizens, which they have shown in the elections, and their desire for Serbia to become an EU member as soon as possible, because Serbia has a problem on this road which is first and foremost looked at in that the activation of the transitional Association and Stabilisation Agreement stops the Netherlands, that there is a decision by Parliament of the Netherlands that until Serbia meets all the conditions for co-operation with The Hague cannot be ignored, on the other hand, because of the indisputable fact that the interest of Serbia's citizens is to be defrosted and that Serbia creates conditions for the submission of the candidacy, on the initiative of the Serbian Parliament, therefore, we have launched the initiative to try to explain in direct contact with the Dutch parliamentarians the position of Serbia and the citizens of Serbia and, of course, that in establishing that delegation, we have had in mind who are the best way to present those interests of Serbia. And that, at the same time in direct talks with the Dutch parliamentarians, we do everything possible to remove this obstacle that Serbia has, which is indeed a problem for the citizens of Serbia. There's nothing more logical than that. So we don't visit The Hague tribunal, we don't visit The Hague tribunal, so whoever wants to visit The Hague has nothing to do with this delegation. We are not going there to compromise on The Hague tribunal, we are going to try to help Serbia unblock itself, to defrost the Transition Agreement, and thus to enable Serbia and its citizens not only to visa liberalisation, which I believe by the end of the year, again with the same pledge, but also to speed up the process of Serbia's European integration, which are indeed the priority interest of all its citizens. In that sense, this insistence on equal representation of political parties is simply without a lot of meaning, because what they are saying right now here, exactly what they are saying here, is a problem that has caused Serbia to have a problem in its European integration for nine years. Such a political stance is a problem that makes Serbia unable to achieve its goal, although it is in the best interests of its citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u27806	I thank you for your clarifications, Mrs. Kolundjia. Mr. Dragan Shormaz was advertised by the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u27807	I'm referring to Article 104. I think he's a very badly injured Rules of Procedure. For example, you haven't said a single moment on what basis you're giving Mrs. Nadi Kolundji's word. What replica? To whom she gives the replica. Mr. Micunović has been called. That's one. I'm not finished. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u27808	Please, it may not have been heard. So I apologize, I'll take your time, you'll have plenty of time to say. Let me just say, or I'll add as much as I'm taking from you right now. I wanted to tell you that Mrs Kolundzija came forward, she had a replica, the DS was mentioned, that is, the DS Parliamentary Group, and she was given the word as head of the parliamentary group, as Mr Todorovic was given. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u27809	Okay. First, I didn't hear Mrs. Kolundji say on what basis the Rules of Procedure, whether it was a replica, was it not. You, in fact, did not say by which member of the Rules of Procedure etc. Secondly, here, there's really a lot going on in this House. Beware, Mrs. Kolundji is called to the people's will, so-called people's will. They never told the people in the campaign when they said the SAA would be frozen, that the trade agreement would be frozen, and now they are called to the people's will. They never said they wouldn't apply, but only we would use it at the expense of the state. It is now called to the people's will. I'm more of a Euro-Mercalia here and the commissioners in this House! On the other hand, the people's will to have other MPs present in the delegation is disputed, as they too must be of some national will in Parliament. She's controversial to them and doesn't make much sense. Yesterday, this reminds you because you are also participating in negotiations with RTS, RTS played our integral videos in its transmission – the head of the MPs on the entire screen, the G17 Plus MP who speaks on the phone. There's a lot going on in this House. They only took an hour from the Sutanovac, gentlemen of the DS, so the RTS let it across the screen, the clock, to see the whole of Serbia that has the clock. They let Srdjan Milivojevic play solitaire on the laptop, with Djindjic's character, and it was not disputed to see the people do what the messenger does, but these other things really don't go. I think Parliament and how threatened it is as an institution, and so are we, by this behaviour. What does calling people's will mean? To be in a delegation, like, someone who's for Europe, and someone who, like, isn't for Europe shouldn't be. Whose expression are they? The Martians, not the peoples? What kind of argument is that?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u27810	Mr Markicevic, you answered, on what basis, as deputy head of the parliamentary group? Yeah, we just have... Mr. Todorovic, did you answer the line? There was nothing offensive or vague. No replica Mr. Vladan Batic has a word. [[Dragan Todorovic from the place: How is there no replica?]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u27811	Madam President...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u27812	I'm sorry, but the replica and you answered, the basis of the call is the replica?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u27813	I called about a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u27814	Because of the breach of the Rules of Procedure, then you have the advantage. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u27815	With all due respect, I think Mrs. Hope Kolundji's intervention was wrong. There cannot be similar and unsuitable MPs. The presentation in the Parliament of the Netherlands must be made possible by representatives of practically all parliamentary groups, not by competent and incompetent, similar and inappropriate MPs. I think it's wrong, I don't think there's any bad intentions, but it's just wrong. I didn't object, but if we wanted to use that logic whose influence on the Dutch parliamentarians could be the greatest, then I could say – why didn't you put me in that delegation? Why? Because the Dutch demochrists are first in power, secondly, by voting on the foreign political committee, a white Schengen for us is possible. Furthermore, in this House, I have proposed a resolution, and you should have put it on the agenda, about the political upheaval of the Dutch battalion, because the Dutch relationship is not because of us, but because of the internal opportunities of the Netherlands. But what's there? I think we should simply break the controversy of this species. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u27816	The word is Miroslav Markicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u27817	Dear President, I use what MP groups have right on Tuesdays and Thursdays. So, I'm looking for a notice and I'm giving you a question, Madam President. In your announcement of this Parliament's autumn session, you said several times that Parliament, or MPs, i.e. you, i.e., you, first of all, will exercise control and achieve your supervisory role over the laws that we have adopted here and which should be applied. I claim that since 2000, a lot of good laws have been passed in this assembly, good for the wider layers of the population and citizens, but the problem is that they are not applied. I want to believe that you have noticed that, too, and that this is why you have made it very indicative several times – that Parliament will play a supervisory role over the institutions, probably, which should implement these laws that the National Assembly is making, because this is also our constitutional obligation and our constitutional right. I tell you that I welcome what you said, and I remind you that nine days ago, among other things, I referred one question to you, so I would like to know through which form the National Assembly, is there a committee, a group of MPs, how are we going to control the state authorities, do they enforce the laws that we bring here in the National Assembly? Serbia's citizens will have the opportunity to hear next Tuesday and Thursday, if there are no other opportunities, which is exactly what New Serbia and I are personally thinking about. So, last Tuesday, I asked, it's been nine days now, a very important issue that almost all the media are avoiding, and I'm only going to mention one "public service", "poor"- "public service", so-called "public service" of citizens, media European service, which does not mention the question I asked here in the National Assembly, which is approved by 99% of the MPs of this assembly, including MPs of the ruling majority, because for the first time, for some of the accusations I made here or one of the MPs of the opposition, there was no replica. In the hallway they tell us you're right, push it, but on this "public service" doesn't say a word, I don't mention other TVs, because they're not paid by Serbian citizens, "public service" is paid by Serbian citizens. You asked yourself, I have no one in direct contact to ask, but you here, how will the National Assembly perform this supervisory role? Here's just one example that was in the media today. Mr Batic, it seems to me, six years ago, filed criminal charges against an NGO, I am not going to name it now, when I am going to name it – as an ordinary citizen, who is not a legal expert, those documents I have seen in the media are more than indicative and clearly say that something is wrong. And for six years, the prosecution, the judiciary, they don't move anything, and we can see that some citizens are arrested on the street, and directly, suddenly, they're going, almost, without trial, 30 days in prison. Where is the equality of citizens in front of state authorities? I firmly believe that you have said this honestly, and will you be able to manage in the towers, the Labyrinths of the ruling coalition, the New Serbia Parliamentary Group and I are here to help you – I understand your statements that have been broadcast almost on all the media several times, I repeat, therefore, the "supervisory" role of the Serbian Parliament. Because what does the citizens of Serbia have out of it if we bring laws here, we will all admit together, almost all of us were in power and in opposition, that a lot of good laws have been passed, this statement, as members of the opposition, is perhaps a bit apolitical, so what good are citizens if these laws do not apply? Just your announcement that you're going to play a supervisory role, or that we're going to do a supervisory role in implementing the law that's being passed here, I think that some state authorities should be serious, but still, I want to find out from you what you're specifically thinking, that this wouldn't remain as just one statement, since I believe that you honestly said that, you sincerely, expressed your intentions. So, to tell us through which assembly body, does the board, do any legal team of experts from fellow MPs here, either from the opposition, or from the authorities, which are obviously legal experts, not to say lawyers, through which form as Parliament we are going to supervise the implementation of the law that is being passed here? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u27818	Mr Markicevic, I am also pleased that you and most MPs and I are also thinking about a very significant supervisory function. It is also provided for in this Rules of Procedure by Article 40, but the working bodies of the Assembly did not use it in the framework of the existing Rules of Procedure either. We will, in the law that we bring, specify what the working bodies of the Assembly are, but in any case within the jurisdiction of the laws that are of the area, which are the contents of the work of that working body. So, more precision will be in the new Law on the Assembly, which is really the end and we will be relatively quick to declare here, and besides working bodies and a whole series of institutions, independent ones, chosen by the Assembly, this form of supervision of the law can and should be realised, and the Assembly should be a place not only where reports of the work of these working bodies are obtained, but more incentives to the independence and function of these working bodies. In particular, I mean the Guardian of Citizens and that type of working body. I thank you for that question. Mr. Todorovic answered, advertises the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u27819	Mrs. Dejanovic, you've broken the Rules of Procedure and you're aware of that. What are you doing this for, I really don't know. If you need to protect the DS in such a way, then I think you have completely misunderstood your role as chairman, or President of Parliament. All MPs should be the same to all of you that you have the same arches, but you seem unable to behave in this way and accept that there are first and second-row MPs in Parliament and the best example, which is why I thank you, it was your procedure when you did not give me the replica. The fact that you gave Mrs. Kolundjia, not only accept and approve, I think it's perfectly normal that we should discuss all things in Parliament and not elsewhere, but you're preventing it from taking meetings and your relationship with the MPs. I do not think there is an MP in the Assembly who would not act in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and give a replica to Mrs Kolundzhia's presentation to any representative of the SRS, because her exposure was all the time related to the SRS. I suppose that is not what I should explain to you and to some other logical conclusions to suggest that you have brutally trampled the Rules of Procedure and that you are essentially leading this manner of conduct in Parliament. As long as it lasts and as it reflects, we'll have a chance to see. I warn the MPs of other parties that this manner of action will today be radicals... . (President: Please bring the end. )......................................................................................................... Tomorrow it'll be another party... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u27820	Thank you. Mr. Milos Radulovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u27821	Thank you. Madam President, I am using the right to ask a question, what the Rules of Procedure allows. The government, the DS government has repeatedly violated the Constitution and the laws of the Republic of Serbia. It will be remembered for numerous violations, both the Constitution and the law of the Republic of Serbia. The lack of respect and non-compliance with the law has inconceivable consequences for Serbian citizens on their standard of living, on increasing poverty and on increasing unemployment. A dozen days ago, the DSS MP group asked why the budget law was being violated. According to the Ministry of Finance's January-September report, which has been submitted to the government since 5 October, the budget deficit is 74.2 billion. This goes beyond the allowed deficit of the budget as the law provides. It's October 15th. Article 31 The budget system law according to the budget calendar, the finance minister is obliged to submit the 2010 budget proposal to the government today. The finance minister said yesterday that the 2010 draft budget is in preparation and that it will be delivered to the government as soon as possible. I repeat once again, today is the 15th, the obligation of the Ministry of Finance has been to deliver the budget proposal to the government by now for the coming year. My question was addressed to Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic. Why does the government violate the Budget Law and exceed the allowed budget deficit? And secondly, did the finance minister once again violate the Budget Law by disrespecting the budget calendar, disrespecting the deadlines, because, I repeat, today is October 15th and the Government has not been given the draft budget law for 2010? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u27822	Thank you. The word is Mr. Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u27823	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the DHSS, I am asking the question of the Minister of Energy and Mining, the Minister of Ecology and Spatial Planning and the Minister of Finance. What's this about? The issue concerns the migration of the village of Vreoci due to the need to move the “Colubar” surface spear so-called fields D. Activities on the move of Vreoc started three years ago. It's a delicate job, things aren't happening clearly, they've been going on for three years, they've brought a move strategy, the Vreoci Relocation Program Foundation, it's this booklet, the contract models and so on, but it seems to me that the story of Vreoc is about Potenkin's village and not the Serbian village, and it's right next to Belgrade that belongs to the City of Belgrade. You know, it's very difficult for people who are born here, whose ancestors are from that space, whose origin it is, the graves of their ancestors are there, they suddenly need to go somewhere else, and uncertainty, and doubt, and dilemmas, obviously, continue. That's what I'm asking the ministers I've spoken to, are there ever going to be a move of the Hot Man? Is there enough money to be realised, because the people of the Hot One don't want to stay in some ruins, in some urines, like in some parts of the Moon? So everyone's asking it to be a complete move and it's a complete expropriation of their assets. In what time will this be realised, when will the fee be paid, which is promised by the end of September'? Nobody's even mentioning it now. When will be the final deadline for the completion of the work and the deadline for payment, because things are rotating? The Lazarec municipality assembly decided to ban burial at the cemetery in Vreoci, the funeral is being held day and day. Now all of a sudden, an artificial dilemma is being imposed on so-called illegal construction, as if all the problems were solved, just to solve the issue of illegal construction and it seems to me that a ping-pong game is being played with the citizens of Vreoc, which is inadmissible.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u27824	Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u27825	In the debate on new borrowing with the IMF, I opened up on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Advanced Serbia a very interesting topic, and this is a lack of control of existing budget funds, and in order not to use time for individual debates to discuss whether the Civil Aviation Directorate is legally charging funds, does not illegally reduce its salaries, how the other beneficiaries of budget funds do, I take this opportunity to use this opportunity on behalf of the Serbian citizens, who are particularly interested in not being drained out and overrun by those who have no right to do so, and I am asking the question of the Finance Minister, Mrs Diana Dragutinović, who, by means of an international contract, which is not ratified in the Serbian Assembly, the Civil Aviation Directorate, obtained the right to pay money from overflight to some international organisations or to herself, as if it were a private company. Please report to the citizens and the Assembly – what is the international contract that is above the Budgetary System Act, above the Value Added Tax Act, and when is it, and is it ratified in the Serbian Parliament? In view of the fact that the Civil Aviation Directorate has unlawfully charged services, and does not tax them, nor does it issue fiscal accounts for them, and it has not obtained the law on the budgetary system, because it is not established by the Law but by the Government decision, and as such, it can carry out the tasks of the state administration, but it would then have to transfer to the State part of the funds, which it does not do, and it charges the following services – compensation for issuing a certificate of strength of noise; compensation for issuing a certificate of gas emissions; compensation for issuing an air registration certificate; compensation for enrolment of airports in the Register of airports; compensation for issuing consent for setting up technical systems of facilities, installations, devices for which there is no basis in the Law; it has also been determined to grant an extension of the certification of organisations registered for sports and amateur flights. The base of illegally introduced taxis is listed in the application, which one of the interested airlines sent to the Ministry of Finance, which is deafened to such a request. I am interested as MPs of this Assembly and party member Forward Serbia, or the Parliamentary Club Forward Serbia – why does this organisation not pay value added tax and earn millions of dollars, charges control over our sky and overflight and does not pay the state or dinar of income from it, or the euro income, while the state is also in debt under extremely unfavourable circumstances and without the possibility of paying back those debts? Is there a reason to remain silent about the appearance of the government's prominent members in the organisation's management and flight control agency? Well, my lords, your membership, your individual membership, I demand that those names be published, and citizens are not sufficient reason for the state to approve – that the funds belonging to the state, the budget, or the citizens are poured into their private pockets. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u27826	Thank you. Mr. Vladin Batic used three minutes and asked only part of the question. He's got two more minutes. So I'm sorry, because I didn't realize it wasn't over yet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u27827	Thank you. My question is about the previous question. The Minister of Ecology and Spatial Planning and Minister of Health, I'm putting it on behalf of the DHSS, and I want to say that in Obrenovac municipality, the largest number of diseases in 2008, remember, 22.266, these were respiratory conditions, of which 50% of children's and pre-school airways. Of course, there is a dominant impact of the air pollution near the settlement where the thermal power plants of the dump, the "Nikole Tesla A" and "Nikola Tesla B" are located, Usce, Skela, Ratara, Dren, Krtinska. What I'm saying is that the highest rate of mortality is cardiovascular disease and malignancies. Once again, it is a direct causal link between malignant diseases and air pollution, water pollution, air and soil. Also, what I'm saying is that it's a negative birth rate. In Obrenovac last year, 108 children were born with congenital anomalies and is the highest percentage of perinatal mortality, which means that children are born not normally but die in their mother's womb, right in Obrenovac, of all urban municipalities. It is inevitable to stress that since the presence of the ash dump, the degree of pollution in Obrenovac and the environment is far above the average, as can be seen in the Ecological bulletin, and that there are no measuring stations and the citizens of Obrenovac are due to such a relationship between the states of the second order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u27828	Mr. Dragan Todorovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u27829	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the first part of the exhibition I would like to take advantage of, above all, to thank Mrs Nadia Kolundzija for the best way to confirm everything that we have claimed and what it would take us to prove, and to thank her for not passing as Velija Ilic, which is not offered anything that is on the menu today, so I am pleased with Mrs Nadia Kolundzija's performance. I would now return, first of all, to the problem that Serbian citizens have for working, reluctantness or abuse of government, or individual ministries. A meeting was held in Valjevo on 4 September between the producers of raspberries, refrigerators and the Ministry of Agriculture. This is one of the examples, one of the best examples of this kind of crime and corruption in our country, and proof that this crime and this corruption are embedded in the system, that this is systematically possible. You all know that for years whenever a raspberries harvest comes, there are problems between'manufacturers' and 'fridgers' because 'fridgers' are trying in every way possible to provide for themselves as favourable conditions as possible and to earn the work of our farmers, or 'creation makers', even though we have an extremely great advantage because raspberry is one of our best products, because it is the best raspberries in the world. Because of this relationship, our country suffers and is suffering 'creation producers', and the Ministry, or Government, is not only doing nothing, but it is entirely on the side of one, which is 'fridgers', and to this day from that meeting, we have no result and there will be no result. We'll get into a situation where our peasants will no longer produce raspberry. We will be in the same situation as the cherry producers in Merošina in Toplička County – the cherry remains defenseless because it is not worth picking, because everything that should belong to them belongs to the refrigerators, or to those to whom the state has made it possible. We've been wondering how it's even possible, what's going on here? What kind of tie is that we can't get to the point where the state for the immediate benefit that its citizens and the state both have is doing nothing to make it better? Then we started questioning to see what the reason was. And believe it or not, the reason is very simple. The largest number of those holding coolers are members of DS, G17 and has something from your party, Mrs Dejanovic. Since the material is long enough, I would like to read to you only the biggest ones, those who hold the largest freezers in Serbia: "Sorogoy Product" bought Rada Ljubovic from "Mala Product", capacity of four and a half thousand tonnes, the chairman of the Association and member of the G17; "Frigo Paun"-Požega, the capacity of thousands of tonnes, owner of Paun Petrovic, president of the Municipal Committee of DS Požega. Open company and in Barbados "Frigo Paun d.o.o."; "Libertas"-Belgrade, the largest producer of fresh raspberries and strawberries in the Republic of Serbia, is owned by Raka Zunic, a member of the DS. Customers: "Delta", "Maxi", "C Market", "Merkator", "Rodić", "Metro", "Veropolus", "Idea" etc. The link is very simple, easy to check; ''Stanić'-Arilje, capacity of four thousand tonnes, bought by Stanić Milan from the Land Cooperative "Lastvica"-Arilje, member of DS; "Agro-partner"-Lucani, owners of Rade Kovacevic and Momcilo Kičić, members of DS. I don't want to read you what income they are, etc. Podgorica - "Frect Osect"...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u27830	Time's up. Thank you. Mrs. Hope Kolundji has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u27831	I'm reporting from article 101. I will not comment on your intention to personally insult me by making things up. I just want to finish this debate and prove that in no way has the Rules of Procedure of the Serbian Parliament been broken. Therefore, Article 246 states that the co-operation of the National Assembly with the representative bodies of other countries is achieved by sending delegations of MPs, study groups of the National Assembly, its committees of representative bodies of other countries and receiving delegations, study groups or members of representative bodies of other countries, by sending and exchanging certain acts and messages, by exchanging documents, etc. Article 247 says: "The Committee on Foreign Affairs decides on visitation initiatives and establishes the composition of delegations to conduct talks with representatives of representative bodies of other countries. '"The board did just that yesterday and in no way broke the Rules of Procedure. I just don't think your objections stand in any way.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u27832	Mr. Todorovic has a replica, although there was nothing offensive and vague, but perhaps you were misunderstood. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u27833	Please, Mrs. Slavic, so I'll thank Mrs. Nadia Kolundji again. You're precious to the SRS. You are valuable to show the citizens of Serbia your way of understanding politics and the moment you take over the government as you should. It's not a problem with you, it's a problem with those who support it and who make it possible for you. We'll come from the unspeakable MPs to the unspeakable citizens, for God's sake, maybe we'll get to the stadium. You know, unfortunately, many countries and many citizens of these countries have had the opportunity to experience such an understanding of similarity or incomparableness. What you have read, Mrs Kolundzija, is the best proof that a delegation, any delegation of Parliament, should paint, at best, at least those parties that have the largest number of MPs in that parliament. This does not mean the right of the Foreign Affairs Committee to violate that democratic principle. Do you even know what democratic principles mean, what Parliament means? That doesn't mean what suits you or doesn't suit you, but the will of the Serbian citizens in the elections, they voted. If you were to ask the Serbian Radicals – it would probably not be any DS member or vice versa, but that is the right that we have, to express our views, the citizens say so in the elections. You abuse it because you have most. Here's the problem with those who support it, who support you. And it's going to go upside down, because what you're doing is going to happen to other parties. The moment you realize that in this way you'll be in the same position as the SRS, you'll be too late. What's worse, when you call on what I'm calling for today, you won't have the moral right to seek some rights for you, because you denied them to someone else when you had the opportunity to prevent it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u27834	Since none of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, answer for word, we continue to work. Today, the sittings were prevented from being attended by the MPs: Nikola Lazic and Željko Tomic. I would like to inform you that I am, in accordance with Article 88(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Article 88(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly called for the meetings, in addition to the representatives of the motions, to attend: Dusan Spasojevic and Igor Jovičić, State Secretarys at the Ministry of Defence Dragan Radulovic, Defence Ministry Secretary Brigadier General Mitar Kovac, Colonel Goran Zekovic and Slavica Jerkovic, Defence Ministry head and Milorad Peric, Head of the International Military Co-operation Administration at the Ministry of Defence. We move to the 5th item of the agenda: – Proposal FOR THE LAW OF THE WAR, WORK AND TERRIAL OBLIGATION (single details) On Article 48 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Škrbić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 48 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic, who wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u27835	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, in the Bill of Law of Article 48, paragraph 3) states that the reserve composition includes, among other things, "unaligned military taxpayers", in addition to the reserve composition of Serbia and the reserve composition of civil protection and other defence forces. The SRS suggests that this point 3 be deleted, because it is completely unclear what unaligned military bonds are, what their status is in the reserve system, what their duties are, what should they do in case the Serbian Army is engaged. And then the Serbian government, in an explanation of why it does not accept the amendment, rather than define what is considered and implies under the term 'unaligned military taxpayers', gives a very funny explanation. ''Amendment is not accepted because this category includes military bonds that are not deployed into Serbia's military units, civil protection or other defence forces. 'Well, that's what Article 48 paragraph 1 points 3 says. The government does not say at all what faces they are, what they should do when they are not deployed either in the Serbian Army's reserve composition or in the civil protection reserve and other defence forces. What are these people doing? According to the SRS, it's one category that's been invented. That category should be deleted. Serbia's army has a reserve composition, a classic reserve composition of military taxpayers, a reserve civil protection system and possibly other defence forces. Everything else is a novelty in this law, which means nothing. It is possible that someone from NATO said it should be written in the bill, so the government accepted it, but then it would be good to explain to the people's MPs and citizens of Serbia who are citizens of Serbia who are in the reserve system and are not in the classical reserve system or in the reserve civil protection system. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u27836	The amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Verica Radeta, who wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u27837	You have heard that Article 48 speaks of the reserve composition and in paragraph 2 says that "The obligations of service in the reserve assembly are subject to military bonds", among other things, ''2) which, under the provisions of this law, have regulated the obligation to serve the military term in another way (if assessed as capable of military service). ''We believe that this point 2) of attitude 2 should be changed in such a way that the obligation to serve in the reserve system is subject to military bonds which, under the provisions of this law, regulate the obligation to serve the military term, if they are assessed as capable or limited in military service. In this law, you do not treat persons who are limitedly capable of military service, and we in the SRS believe that they can and should also be in reserve, of course as well as during military service, with certain tasks that this restriction for military service allows and allows. The government says it does not accept this amendment because military bonds that otherwise regulated military service are subject to the obligation to serve in the reserve. The government's explanation corresponds to what we want and says that you in the government are completely unserious to the amendments of the SRS, not to read them, not to read or explain them, and only to leave your job behind gives some arguments that have nothing to do with the amendment or common sense. We have explained, in our explanation, that this is the position of the SRS, that the military deadline can only be served in the barracks and military facilities of the Serbian Army, and nowhere else. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u27838	Member of the 48th amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. Here you go, Mr. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u27839	Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I wanted to help you overcome one of the illogicalities that will appear to you in the event of the need to engage civil protection. In fact, civil protection will be much more common, don't God forbid, you have to engage than soldiers who have a war schedule, etc. They're either at war or at a military exercise. Elemental disasters, earthquakes, floods, energy and other devices working with chemistry will be much more necessary to engage civil protection, and hence its reserve composition. In Article 48, the last paragraph, you said: "The reserve composition of civil protection and other defence forces are persons who regulated the military obligation by the execution of civil service and, if necessary, military bonds that are not on the Serbian military schedule. '". What about the volunteers who would definitely come to you, because during the bombing I was the commander of the Civil Protection Staff in Zemun and the greatest benefit, the greatest work was done by volunteers who appeared, who had a military schedule, but who were not currently engaged, they came when they needed to. Trying to deprive you of the trouble you will have tomorrow, I have proposed by amendment that the reserve civil protection system is made up of people who are not on the military schedule in Serbia, counting on those volunteers who will have a war schedule the next day, but are not currently engaged. My amendment has been denied – it is not accepted because civil protection is regulated in Article. 77 to 80. The law on defence and because the persons who performed the civil service would not have any schedule in the reserve. Well, if they did civilian service and don't have a wartime schedule, then of course they'll be hired. I think the explanation is illogical and at least unspoken in this sense, because you'll certainly be able to hire them. And Article 77 to 80. The Law on Defence says: "Civil protection is organised, prepared and implemented as a system of protection and rescue of humans, animals," etc. "from elemental disasters", which can be much more than there will be any war dangers or military exercises, "technical and technological accidents", to remind ourselves of how many floods there have been in India, to remember Chernobyl, don't God, that something like that should happen to us, then we would have to have a much larger composition of people to engage, remember our floods in Banat. That's why you accept this amendment, it doesn't spoil your law, and it allows you to hire a far greater number of people tomorrow.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u27840	Thank you. You spoke for a minute and ten seconds more than two minutes, so it's your time from the MP's group. On Article 49 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljubisa Petkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u27841	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS Parliamentary Group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 49 and suggested that the text in item 1 be changed, and that the following text reads as follows: 'The obligations of the persons in the reserve assembly come from the day of discharge from military service, or from the day of termination of the professional service, and lasts until the end of the calendar year in which the soldier, a man, turns 55 years old. ''The SRS believes that men's sexes should be freed from all obligations with 55 years of life and deleted from reserve records, not at 60 years of age, as provided for in the bill. I hope you'll have at least a little respect for the faces in the late years and release them from military exercises, and with too much cargo of military equipment you'll be chasing down the hills in various weather conditions and circumstances. I suppose you're familiar with the fact that people in those years usually have bigger health problems, which is why one number goes into early retirement, because they're not capable of any work. According to these people should have, not mercy, but understanding, because if he is not capable of work, then to respond to the demands and efforts that would be put before him, as a person in the reserve. Please don't expect the country to be defended by 60-year-olds, while, on the other hand, you release several hundred thousand military personnel of all responsibilities and obligations related to the defence of the country, at the best of years, allowing them to serve in civil service. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u27842	Member of the 49th Amendment was submitted by MP Sladjan Mijaljevic, who wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u27843	I have submitted an amendment to Article 49(2) where number 50 is replaced by 45. So it's about age. The SRS believes the obligations in the women's spare composition last until the end of the calendar year in which they are 45 years old. So, underlining, it's about the backup. This is another absurd situation in continuity due to the existence of the possibility of serving without weapons, or objecting to conscience, and civil service. You, through a 50-year-old law and women, are obliged to be in reserve, that mothers, aunts, do the part of the work that you took away from boys at 20, 22, 25, who comb wigs on theaters and walk poodles. The aunts and aunts will command and hold the position, and the boys will take places in shelters and fight with grandparents for as comfortable a bed as possible. Let's at least make it easier for women by reducing this number of years that obliges them to be members of the reserve band, of course, if it doesn't diminish our battletime. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u27844	Thank you. The 49th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, who has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u27845	On behalf of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 49, in its position 3. But since attitude 2 speaks of women having an obligation in reserve by the time they're 50, let me just say that I don't have that obligation anymore, but if I have to, you can count on me, I'm here. Item 3 is talking about exceptions, so here you are, like, something you want to do to women and you say that a woman is not invited to practice during pregnancy, a military official whose spouse is invited to a military exercise, a single parent, if she has a child under the age of 15, well, that's where we're looking for that year to increase to 18 years, because it's a minor child, and a woman whose spouse isn't invited to a military exercise, if she has a child under the age of 10, that's where we're asking her to be at least '15 years', that she has at least some independence or that she belongs to this category of an elderly minor. In response to the government's response to why this amendment is not accepted, you say there are no reasonable reasons to increase the age limit of children called for to fulfil the obligation in the reserve. You tell me why there's a reasonable reason for it to be just like you suggested. As a woman first of all, the fact that a parent’s care for children is necessary until the moment they have no adulthood, i.e. until they become self-sufficient in that way that they can take care of themselves. And you'll allow it, children of 10 are in the fourth grade of primary school, and children of 15 are still at the end of primary school, so now you see how far their mothers can be separated from them in such conditions, and at the expense of those, and they say that there are 50%, who won't accept guns and serve the Army, and that's all thanks to the campaign and reputation of the Army that you have broken down to such a bizarre level. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u27846	You spoke 40 seconds longer, so, half a minute. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 49th amendment. Here you go, Miss Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u27847	Thank you. Mr. Minister, with this amendment, I wanted that member to be more pronounced, in fact, to comply with the powers of the President of the Republic that gives him the Constitution. In fact, Article 112 regulates the authority of the president and in the last position says he, in accordance with the law, is in command of the military. This member speaks of what happens during emergency or wartime. I believe that Serbia will never be in such a situation again, especially because of the fact that the last state of emergency is not abused, but in the whole world, in the international public, it is known that human rights of our citizens have been violated in the most drastic way, but if the President of the Republic takes responsibility for commanding the military, then I do not see why this amendment, which I have submitted to on behalf of our parliamentary group, where it is said - that the President of the Republic, in the event of an emergency or a war situation, can be ordered, rather than extended, that the soldiers to whom the military has expired under this law, can be kept in Serbia, as a person in reserve. Why does the President of the Republic run away from such responsibility? We, according to the law adopted two years ago, gave him clear powers which, by the way, regulated him, how it goes from the Constitution, how he can command the military, only if you do not wish to order Boris Tadic with this – it does not matter, and if Serbia finds itself, God forbid, in such danger, you do not care, or – you will take it upon yourself. I think it was better, and to make it more explicit, and therefore to commit and the President of the Republic to, according to his assessment, in such situations, do not God, if Serbia comes into such a situation, simply executes its Constitution of prescribed obligations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u27848	Thank you. Members of the 51st Amendment were submitted by MP Ljubisa Petkovic, who has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u27849	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS Parliamentary Group, I have tabled an amendment to Article 51(2) and suggested that the person in the reserve staff may be invited to a military exercise for up to 30 days during one calendar year. I don't know if there's any big explanation at all. The SRS believes that a person in peacetime conditions cannot be kept for more than 30 days on a military exercise, and as a basis, I state that a military exercise or military maneuver, no matter what proportion or dimension it may be, can be carried out at a reasonable time, for up to 30 days. In addition, reserve persons should no longer be invited during one calendar year from once, so as not to endanger their family, agricultural work or workplace. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u27850	Member of the 51st Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic, who has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u27851	We have submitted an amendment first of all to get this attitude thrown out of this article. That's not the amendment, though. The amendment is just to delete one piece. What's this about? When you looked at those double regulations, you tried to fold something in one article that was contained in several members, and then you literally mixed the grandmothers and frogs. What's this about? Here you demonstrated first that you do not know what is serving in the backup system. So you have to have a face first, you have to have a defined sex, you have to have defined years of life until that obligation exists. In the course of that calendar year, when 60 or 50 years of age are completed, the obligation to serve in the reserve shall cease. As long as you're in reserve, you're going to practice, and in the event of an emergency or a war situation, you know it's no longer a drill, it's a mobilization, it's a compliance with the law of prescribed obligations. Now you've put in a special category that the President of the Republic during emergency and wartime can invite people who are no longer in reserve in the exercise. Why practice, people? Who's practicing in a state of emergency? In times of emergency, obligations are fulfilled. At wartime, obligations are fulfilled. A completely unnecessary provision. Who do you think is Peric or Constantine, someone will call especially if there's an emergency or a war threat. They'll come alone, people. No one's gonna call them. Well, no matter what age we've gone out with, and we're not subject to the reserve, but it's a completely different area than what is fundamentally regulated by article 51 of this law. That's what this is about, and you haven't read what it's really about, and here you've actually demonstrated that you don't know what the backup is. Mr. Sutanovac, explain to me, from the point of view of human resources, how can a farmer who is 70 years old from the village of Resnik, who has been running a procedure for 20 years to get his land back from some agricultural cooperative, which, this land, the municipality gave to the company "Incubator Step"? The founders of the company are some Zoran Angelkovic of New Belgrade, with 250 euros, the second founder of municipalities, there your Bojan Milic, with 250 euros. They do all kinds of things across from a military facility – a dog hotel, and houses are made there, they say that there are Radjujko, Milic, the son-in-law who works in Rakovica, and with what will he responds to a call from the state authority? When his state legally observes his grandfather's abduction, his grandfather's. Be careful, for 10 years, there has been a judicial dispute over the return of the country. You know what the epilogue of that dispute is? Today, a misdemeanor procedure is being conducted in the administration of income against a tax inspector demanding his land returned to him. The president of the municipality ordered the IRS to initiate a procedure to get him kicked out of work! Tell me with what will would a man respond to an invitation to defend his country? How does he take this invitation seriously, when, say, the president of Bojan Milic municipality invite him? He doesn't know if it's a crime or if it's really something that people and the state need. These things can't be solved by law. I'm not calling you because you don't get me wrong. But, please, you have to do, yours is a "yellow raspberries." We've seen a new phenomenon of yellow raspberries. They turn yellow when they come to the yellow warehouses. When they come to the yellow warehouses, you can see that the cherry has become yellow in Serbia. Everything's become yellow. Everything's been black since you came to power! That's it. So, go to the Sunfall – Miljakovac 3, you have a military facility, VMA has its own warehouse, probably for drugs, etc. Ask anyone who lives there, whose houses are across the street, without a building permit, they threaten the safety of Barutana. Why? 'Cause mom's attention, mom's attention to the cancer clan. Mr. Sutanovac, since we're countrymen, I'm counting in a month that you'll get the first copy of the book "The Cancer File". And then you'll see what some of them are yours. You have nothing to do with them. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u27852	You've spoken three minutes longer than you predicted. Member of the 52nd amendment was submitted by MP Konstantin Arsenovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 52 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Mr. Arsenovicu, don't you want to? All right. Mr. Buha wants, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u27853	Ladies and gentlemen, I have submitted an amendment to Article 52. The bill, and I suggested that three more points – 7), 8) and 9 be added after point 6). For the sake of the public, I'll explain what Article 52 regulates. Article 52 provides that persons in the reserve assembly, at their request, may be interrupted or the exercise may be delayed. In principle, this article should be divided into two parts. One is a legal and life situation, when the military exercise is interrupted and the reasons are stated. You've listed here for one situation and one condition for six reasons. The second is the situation of life again and legal, when the person in the reserve requires a stay. There are different legal situations, there should have been reasons for one situation and the other, but you have defined yourself. We propose, on behalf of the SRS, that three more be added for these six reasons for interruption and delay. What we have stated in these three points 7) if he has been on temporary work for more than two years; point 8) if, in the meantime, he has changed the status of citizenship and the place of permanent residence in another country and 9) if, in the meantime, he is scheduled to marry, or the birth of a child. Both in one, and in the other, and in the third case are justified reasons. Unfortunately, you didn't accept this. I ask and ask the minister to plead for these three reasons and accept them.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u27854	Member of the 52nd amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u27855	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to the draft law on military, labour and material obligations to the 52nd member of this law, so that the third position of this member is changed. I'm not going to read the entire amendment here right now, but I'm just going to say why this member should change. In fact, if it were to remain as it stands in the position of 3 of this member, it would lead to great abuses, when it comes to interruptions, or delaying military exercises. I'll tell you now how these abuses can come about. We know that today a large number of Serbian citizens are working in private companies or private entrepreneurs, that I am not talking about what their status is with these privates, how stimulated they are for their work, etc., but the owner of a private company can find his own interest to enable or request that the person he is working with be postponed or interrupted military exercise. This delay or interruption of military exercise, mostly in cases, the owner of a private firm may request for some of his personal reasons, but some times it may also be for a reason to meet the employee. It's just that maybe he can't pay enough and say, well, since you're invited to a military exercise, I'll arrange it for you, so you don't go to military practice, but your salary will be less this month. The SRS therefore considers that, in the case of an interruption, i.e. a delay in military exercise, this is only possible under the reasoned law of the state authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u27856	The 52nd amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u27857	Mr. Minister, I allow the possibility that this amendment may not be properly presented to you as soon as he is not accepted to this day. That's why we're here today anyway. Now I will present to you on behalf of agricultural producers both left and right coasts of Morava, and I hope all other agricultural producers in Serbia, and you, after that, accept it, after my argument, believe it. Mr. Minister, it says here that an exercise that lasts for more than three days can be delayed by registered farmers and other persons self-performing in economic activity due to unscheduled work. There is no military call in the history of the Serb people, which the Serb peasant did not accept, in which he did not respond properly. Let's not go into any further history, just to give you an example. During NATO bombing, an agricultural producer from the area of Cačka Radonja Mijajlovic was hired, along with his two sons and means of transport, a truck, the only means of transporting goods they had at the time. This agricultural household makes 15 hectares of vegetables and exclusively lives on it. They're not being delayed. They went to war. When did this happen? That was 1999. I know, you'll say it wasn't you then. However, Mr. Minister, that is why we have submitted this amendment so that no such situation is taking place in the future, that because of such extraordinary circumstances all the men's heads of the house cannot be invited, that someone can remain in the process of the country, because it exclusively deals with agricultural production. But where is justice and justice? The failure to accept this amendment is indeed in favour of the fact that even in this bill there will be no justice for the Serbian peasant. Why are you transferring the ball to someone else's yard? In an explanation of why it does not accept the amendment, the government says that the farmer has the opportunity to exercise his right in the administrative dispute, to prove in the administrative dispute that he is a agricultural producer and that he needs to be released. Well, why in the administrative dispute? The administrative dispute can be long, it will all pass, so he will not exercise his right. Why didn't you predict that he was still submitting a play to the Constitutional Court? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u27858	You've been talking for 1.10 minutes. National MP Milan Avramovic submitted to the 53rd amendment. You have a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u27859	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment refers to Article 53(2), in which I suggested that there be no difference in the engagement of military officials from an active reserve on passive and active, and that the decision to suspend and postpone training, exercise or engagement of military officials, decided by the military's chief of staff, should not only apply to the active reserve but also to passive ones. The reason for all this is also in the next article. Essentially, my position on 2nd proposal on behalf of the SRS would read: "The delay and interruption of training, exercise or engagement of military officials is decided by the Serbian Army's chief of staff. “ The bill states this: “The delay and interruption of training, exercise or engagement of military officials from an active reserve is decided by the competent Serbian Army elder. ” So, in order not to share competences and interruptions, in this case, active and passive reserves, the difference between an active and passive reserve is only the time period in which they will have, as it says here, the type of training and conditioning of 45 days and 15 days. In the light of Article 6(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the The government's proposal is said: "This way of organising the reserve composition of the Army is proposed after the organisation-forming changes and analyses of the military's development by 2015. Mr. Minister, do you think the development of the Army by 2015 can even exist, given your way of ministry, as president of Serbia in the previous term? It is further said: 'risk assessments and environmental threats'. Mr. Minister, you are one of the advocates of Serbia's participation, more specifically, entering the NATO Pact – you know perfectly well that it was signed by Serbia's entry into the Partnership for Peace. Why do you have an assessment of the risks and threats in the environment if you were trying on the path to which Serbia is to enter the NATO Pact? Then the experiences of countries that have passed the period of reorganisation of the defence system and the armed forces. ''I suppose you mean the NATO Pact members. "This solution is more effective and rational for the state and the Serbian Army compared to the present organisation of the reserve composition. “ Well then there goes this difference of reserve composition, which says that ''active reserve members are invited during the calendar year for conditioning and training up to 45 days, and members of a passive reserve up to 15 days. ''So, if we arrange the procedure and the jurisdiction to postpone the exercise on request, it should be absolutely the same for the reserve. Whether it is passive or active, there is no need to make a difference, because 30 days of conditioning is something that represents a difference in your bill. That's why you don't have to make a big distribution. Therefore, accept this amendment so that this bill is more concise and clear, so that it has the same arches according to the reserve.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u27860	You spoke for 1.30 minutes. National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 54th amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u27861	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, to note that you wish to participate actively in the debate on amendments. We are submitting amendments for the reason that this law, by assessment and attitude of the SRS, is essentially very different from what you represent. I'll list two very important reasons. The first reason -- you want to introduce the army of Serbia into NATO. However, you are not alone, there is a number of former members of the SRS, who also want to do so today. Another reason – we have a deep respect for Article 45. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which speaks of objecting to conscience. You, I think, in one wrong way, want to give a basis for the application of that law. An active and passive reserve composition we want to replace with one category, and these are professional soldiers in the reserve, which represent a trained reserve composition, which can be engaged in certain places, and the rest of the article's text 54 does not differ much by our own concept. Basically, we can't say that the active composition, which is being hired for 45 days in training, is very different from passive, which would be engaged in one year for 15 days. We have accepted the engagement and schedule of professional soldiers in reserve form according to the territorial principle. It is quite logical and fine, and on this good part is based on the presentation and discussion of counterpart Mirko Munjic, which makes it effective and practical. So the distribution by territorial principle is absolutely fine. The involvement of professional soldiers during one year at the disposal of elementary and other disasters. It's also something that we fully support, but division into active and passive composition, we can't accept. First of all, Article 139. The Constitution is deeply respected and we strongly recommend to you, make a turn and read Article 139 more. It's the Constitution. It's Article 45. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u27862	The 54th amendment was submitted by MP Konstantin Arsenovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. National MP Vlatko Ratkovic submitted to the 54th amendment. The government has accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Mr. Vlatko Ratkovic, however, wants to explain the accepted amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u27863	Madam President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I believe that the concept of the Serbian Army's reserve composition, as proposed in this law, and in the form of an active and passive reserve, is much more effective and rational than previous solutions. I intervened in the amendment to Article 54, Article 4, by proposing that this member be supplemented by one standard that would allow members of the active reserve to be invited during the calendar year and up to three months to prepare for missions and tasks. Therefore, the bill provides for, as regards the active reserve, the conditioning and preparation of up to 45 days and sending to the mission for up to six months, given the specificity of missions, structures, their time duration, etc. I believe it is necessary to include in the text of the law a provision that prescribes the possibility that members of the active composition should also be invited to prepare for missions of up to three months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u27864	Thank you. The 55th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Skrbic. Mr. Squirt, you have your word. He's not here. The 55th Amendment was submitted by a group of 20 MPs of the Progress Serbia Group. Mr. Bozidar Delic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u27865	The Honorable chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, was the essence of the Serbian Progressive Party's proposal to add one very concrete position to the competition, if all the conditions mentioned were met, military bonds on the military schedule in the active reserve task force. The competition is always called for a specific duty or speciality. It is absolutely understandable that if all other conditions are satisfied that people who otherwise belong to that unit would best respond to these obligations. Mr. Minister, if this second part of your argument were only where the employer can impose special reception conditions on the competition and satisfy what we have put in our amendment, I would absolutely not report for a word, such a possibility exists, however, the first part of the argument absolutely does not stand. It says - the amendment is not accepted because Article 60 is Article 3. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia has found that all jobs are available under equal conditions. This provision of the Constitution in this case absolutely does not apply. In these jobs, those who are in civil service cannot compete, those who serve a military term without weapons. Which means we shouldn't always be called to the Constitution. This attitude is much clearer than the legislator's position and attitude 1 and 3. Paragraph 1 states: 'General conditions for service in an active reserve are prescribed by the Government, on the proposal of the minister. All right. Then in paragraph 3, he says, "A member of an active reserve may be a military official who fulfils the prescribed conditions laid down in Article 1." Those terms are different. There's something about it that's been said. So our amendment was absolutely clear on all matters and I think it was necessary to adopt it, or write a different explanation, as I have already given you here. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u27866	The 56th Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic, who wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u27867	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the position of the SRS is perfectly clear, the terms active and passive reserve are not good. We have proposed, in our amendment, that instead of the "active reserve" syntagma, one other term is, "professional reserve service", citizens of the Republic of Serbia who conclude a contract with the Serbian Army actually enter into a working relationship and that employment relationship is a source of income for them and for members of their families. It's a syntagma that's common in our legal and military terminology. We really didn't understand why this syntagma needed to be deviated, so we used some expressions that don't make enough sense, such as the active and passive reserve. Furthermore, it is truly incomprehensible that, as it says in Article 56. The proposal for a law of importance of this contract on that so-called so-called An active reserve to be prescribed by the defence minister, and on the basis of a proposal from the Serbian Army Chief of Staff. This directly deviates from the basic principles of bond law. Just to remind you, Mr. Minister, that there has been a Law on bond relations in the Republic of Serbia since 1978, which prescribes the essential conditions of all the contracts that exist in the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Why should this contract now be a specific instrument, so that closer, or essential elements of this contract should not be prescribed by law passed by the National Assembly, but by some sublaw act that you will bring, and on the proposal of the Chief of Staff of the Serbian Army? Why would the Chief of Staff of the Serbian Army be a legal expert to suggest to you what are the essential elements of this contract, about this so-called active reserve? If by law you regulate this matter, well, what's more normal than writing down the essential elements of this contract? The citizens of the Republic of Serbia who are concluding and will conclude these contracts, there is plenty. There's a growing number of people who opt to enter that so-called active reserve of yours. Then why didn't you legislate the essential elements of the contract by law? To be clear at the beginning, as soon as the law is passed, that Serbian citizens know if they opted to serve professionally in the Serbian Army reserve, what they expect, what rights they have, what obligations they have. No, you will pass the labour and material obligation law, but no one living knows what the essential elements of the contract are, until you prescribe it. Then what are you passing the law for? Then you could regulate the whole of this matter to one member of the law in which they will stand – all the details of the work and material obligation will be prescribed by the sublaw of the defence minister, rather than in a comprehensive way edit this matter, in a legally prescribed manner. You will step down from it, and something will be regulated by law, and something concerning subjective rights of citizens will not be regulated by law but will be regulated by a sublegal act by the minister, which is passed on the proposal of the Chief of Staff of the Serbian Army. I guess that Serbian Army Chief of Staff has a lot of work to do than to suggest important elements of the contract for the persons assigned to that active reserve of yours. Why would he, the man who finished the Military Academy, have to know the essential elements of the contract? It's legal matter. This should have been prepared by the lawyers from your ministry and regulated by law. There are now thousands of essential elements of the contract. There could be several of them, like any contract. No problem existed to regulate it with the law, but you continue with this bad practice to sort out a single matter instead of in a whole way, you do it partially, so you'll sort something out by law, and you'll do something by sublegal act, which you will bring on the proposal of the Chief of Staff. That's the problem with this law, that's the problem with all these so-called military laws you've proposed. They are also unarranged when voted in the National Assembly, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, to whom these laws apply, will not yet have a clear idea of what their rights are, which are their obligations to the Army of Serbia, because they will wait for the minister to bring a whole series of sublegal acts on a proposal from the appropriate persons. This practice of sublegislating something that needs to be regulated by law has been going on for almost ten years. It would be once a row to break that practice, especially when it comes to these extremely important laws to defend the country. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u27868	You spoke three minutes longer. A group of 20 MPs from the Progress Serbia Group submitted to the 57th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 57 of the amendment was submitted by the People’s MP, Verica Radet, who wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u27869	The amendment I submitted on behalf of the SRS Parliamentary Group to Article 57 also concerns military, labour and material obligations, when it comes to the reserve composition and conceptual approach of the SRS and the explanation why we do not accept the concept offered to Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Serbia is explained on several occasions. I think this was the last explanation of a colleague of Martinovic's was comprehensive. But anyway, I would like to stress that in this article 57, we have asked that there are no such terms as – persons engaged in the active reserve, but that instead there is a term – 'professional soldiers in the reserve', because what you wrote and why you did not accept the amendment to some members (Articles 5 and 4, 5 and 6 and Article 9) The Military Act and your view of the Republic of Serbia really means nothing to us, because we have expressed our position and on this and showed you that the concept of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the concept of the SRS, when it comes to the military and what you call military reform, is fundamentally different. It will obviously be a problem for the citizens of Serbia because what you are predicting in all these laws, including in this law on military, labour and material obligations in Article 57, which I have intervened on, will not bring any good to the citizens of Serbia or the military of the Republic of Serbia, or to the state of Serbia, where the military should be poorer than the stronger foundations, but thanks to your reform, which Boris Tadic, who obviously ends with these laws and the Americanisation of the Serbian Army is something that is unacceptable to the SRS, and we are convinced of the citizens of Serbia. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u27870	Thank you. Member of the 58th amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u27871	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, in my desire to improve this law in order for the members of the law to be concise, clear and enforceable, most importantly, I have tried to influence amendments to the text of the law, and I have tried to correct the law for the last term of Article 58. Since you haven't adopted the amendments so far, I hope you'll come forward later. Article 58 states: "A decision on the assessment of the capacity for military service and on the change of gender, i.e. the service of the person referred to in Article 1(1), shall be entered in the health book and the military book of the person in the reserve. " With my amendment, I suggested that the military doctor's commission enrolls in the military book as the most important document, because if we go like this, and in the health book, then I won't be surprised that the next day someone after you or you in the second term will be asked to enter both the ID card and the driver's license, in the passport, into the fishing association's membership card. The military booklet, i.e. the booklet, is enough for people who serve a civil document in which all of this should stand, and whoever calls or determines the status of that person is quite enough to look into that book, and as far as the medical book is concerned, as you say here, it stands with the organ, so it stands there and records of the file in which everything is recorded in the military book. I think this is absolutely unnecessary. You'll bring the absurdity to that record. Think until the end, and then adopt this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u27872	Member of the 59th Amendment was submitted by MP Sladjan Mijaljevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Mr. Sladjan Mijaljević.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u27873	I have submitted an amendment to Article 59(2) to change and to say, "For persons in reserve who have served without weapons, a schedule is determined and announced in civil protection and other defence forces". Government explanation: 'Amendman is not accepted because the said member refers to the category 'persons in reserve composition', not only to the category of reserve composition serving a military term without weapons. ''If the country is really in some danger, let's say, directly wartime, if there are any natural disasters and so forth, we can't assume that these people who have had a conscience or those who have served, let's say, this civil service of the military deadline, if at all it's some service of the military deadline, we can't leave them or put them in the disabled category, and that someone's been taking care of them all their lives, so all those who were really in the Army, who were working, they were serving, giving a certain sacrifice should take care of those who, in a certain way, got away from serving the military deadline. So I think we should find some appropriate solution when it comes to, say, floods or something else. It's no problem to wear sacks that will lift a rash or push a wheelchair or something. If he can't carry 50 kilos, he can carry 25 kilos. We need to get him into some kind of defense system or some kind of civil protection system. They're a fact-finding category. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u27874	Thank you. The 59th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u27875	Article 59(4), on which I tabled the amendment, asked unconditionally for it to stand: ''Faces in reserve cannot enter the service of foreign armed forces or build any relationship with those forces. ''I suggested that the words ''without the prior approval of the Minister of Police be deleted. ''This amendment deprives you of the right to decide and that it clearly states in the law that this action is practically impossible, because we are against the fact that both our army and those in the reserve are in the service of foreign armed forces, by imposing a conclusion, by reading a whole set of laws, especially a strategy, which you offered us at the beginning, where you all do everything you do to bring the state into NATO. I also read your interview at NIN, you mention NATO in 27 places, and you only talk about KIM in two places. Is that normal, Minister? So there is no dilemma that the laws are tailored to the possibilities and to what you seek, that we certainly enter NATO, although it is against the Constitution, even though you do not know what the people on this subject think, i.e. You know, but that's what you're deafening yourself about. The explanation you gave me to refuse this amendment really has nothing to do with my amendment, because you are calling for the war schedule to be a secret and that in this case, the secrecy of the data would be violated. We are not asking it to be with your approval or with any other approval, we are taking away practically that possibility from you by this amendment and asking that the person in the reserve cannot enter into the service of foreign armed forces or base any relationship with those forces. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u27876	Thank you. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 61st amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u27877	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, yesterday I discovered that I was absolutely right, of course, I knew from the very beginning, but I also got confirmation from the Serbian Army, now I'm going to tell you how, when I submitted this amendment. I have suggested, on behalf of the SRS Parliamentary Group, that such a 4 should be deleted, when it comes to the residence of military officials abroad, because you said nicely in your explanation – it is not a legal basis that regulates but a interference that a military official is staying abroad. That point I'm asking for to be erased is ''4) avoided the recruiting obligation by his guilt. "The Serbian Army site contains a proposal for this law that we are considering, therefore, not its final version, and I accidentally found this work version, in this work version this point 4 does not exist. I believe that at the last moment someone from your ministry before the meeting of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, when you adopted the final text, came up with the idea that this point should be written like this, which is impossible, because it is in direct contrast with Article 2(2) and Article 3 of Article 1 of this Law, which clearly and precisely state, I must remind you, that the military obligation in peace, emergency or wartime are all citizens who prepare and train to carry out military duties and other defence tasks, in accordance with the law. If, in the explanation of article 61, you have said that it does not regulate the legal basis but only interference, please, from where this possibility is explicitly prohibited by Articles 2 and 3. A bill to define something like that? If someone does so and avoids a military obligation by their guilt under this same law, we will come to those same criminal provisions later, he is subject to a criminal provision that is monetary or prison punishment, but now it is something that is a second part or another aspect of this law. Therefore, it was normal for you to accept, because it is more than a clear explanation – the military obligation is binding on everyone. He who has avoided his guilt, and if he avoids it with his own guilt, he will come under the influence of the law. But why should we affirm it in proposing this law and in Article 61, we state it as a possibility. In one part we say - the constitutional obligation is that, the legal obligation is that everyone has to respond to the call, and then you predict such a possibility. You can see that neither the people of the Serbian Army have accepted it, because if they did and on their site would be item 4), which I am asking for to be deleted by this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u27878	Member of the 61st Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic, who has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u27879	Article 61 refers to the stay of military officials abroad. I asked for amendment four to be deleted. It doesn't matter what's written in that attitude, it matters. The principle or style of writing this law is primarily in paragraph 5 where you went beyond all possible frameworks that exist in one legal system. Item 5 has practically given you the opportunity to edit the way, conditions and procedure with a sublegal act – something like this is not allowed, I must tell you. Exceptionally, the way in which some of the rights guaranteed by the Constitution can be governed by law, but by a sublegal act, only some technical questions can be regulated that allow certain rights to be exercised. In Section 4, you use the words “justified situations. “ Please, this, whether something is justified or not, is not a matter of discretion or of the matter of a sublaw, but of something that must be prescribed by law – that it may be known in advance. And that's the problem. Basically, we have this whole system of military regulations and regulations in the area of defence where, I must say, individual solutions are not as bad as you've opened a borderless space – that sublegal acts devalue and what's good in the bill. We'll finally have the law, in fact we won't have the law, everything will depend on the President of the Republic, the Minister of Defence and a little bit of the Chief of Staff, and there's a start and there's an end. All of this operation means, if you're godfathers, godfathers, where I've left you, go on. That's how you deal with this law now. Rightly, since you have given material for this kind of thinking and for such attitudes the entire defence system goes one way, where it is simply said – Serbia accepts that it participates in the control of the crisis that is planned, which is being implemented. We're not going to fight it, because we have nothing to fight, we're going to cooperate, that's your message after this law. You know, when it comes to staying abroad, the Ministry of Defence and the issue of recruiting obligations, military obligations, it's just one part of the whole process that's in the jurisdiction of other authorities, primarily the Ministry of the Interior. And here comes the second factor, the foreign country – whether it has approved or not, etc. Of course, I'm avoiding these restrictions on the years you've put into attitude 4, which I think is totally unacceptable, really unacceptable. What are the exceptional circumstances? What are the particularly justified cases? Which one? To grant a state a stay, and I say there will be only situations – to avoid a military obligation and of course cover the papers, but it is an act of law. It is the same as the rulings of the Belgrade District Court, these rulings on the return of the term of office or those in Kragujevac. The whole of Serbia has seen, it is clear, all the district courts have resolved, there are five or six judges who drive and say – the contract can be broken in the office of the municipality contract concluded before the court, and it boasts that it is a judge. You don't have anything to do with this, you realize I'm only making little parallels so people can figure out what this is all about. I believe that the great danger for the defence system and the fulfilment of military obligations is precisely that excessive powers are being given to the Ministry, the President of the Republic, and to the Government, because it regulates certain issues where this whole system can be distorted, especially if it takes into account that a large number of foreigners are present, not only in terms of names and names, but also those with "ic" that ended abroad, such as that – Duleta Shiptarina, Spasojevic, was so. Okay, that's the nickname. (Dragan Sutanovac from the scene: he exaggerated, instead of Dusan Spasojevic, Dusan Šiptar said. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u27880	I would ask that we apply the terms, given that the identity of the mentioned and very inappropriate terms and the Mr. Secretary of State is identical, so there may be an error of understanding. Please be more specific, Mr. Krassic, please – nothing else. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u27881	Is that what you asked me to explain?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u27882	No, I asked that when you use your own names to be precise, there should be no replacement or misread of people's identities, because different names can be understood in different ways.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u27883	You didn't understand me, sir. No identity errors. You know in the country nicknames mean a lot more. According to nicknames, people are much more recognizable in Serbia. You know, that's what this is about. I didn't know a little touch could cause the Ministry of Defense to fall.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u27884	On Article 62, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh who has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u27885	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable citizens of Serbia, I have submitted on behalf of the SRS an amendment to Article 62, and I have suggested that the 5th number "30" be replaced by "27". For the sake of the public and the citizens of Serbia, I need to explain what is regulated by Article 62. It's a bill of law. Members of the 62nd set out the rights and obligations of military officials abroad and the rights and obligations of the diplomatic and consular representative of the Republic of Serbia with regard to the determination of the rights and obligations of military officials working abroad. Article 5 provides for the following: "The diplomatic and consular representation of the Republic of Serbia shall be issued by the end of June of the calendar year in which the recruit is 30 years old. “ The SRS asks the legislator to move from 30 to 27 years of life. Why? To define all legal states and all life situations regarding the rights and obligations of military officials and end up with 27 years of life. You, and the SRS, are not giving me an argument on this, but you are giving me an empty explanation, and I will read it: “Amendment is not accepted because it is Article 61(4). Proposal for this law regulated the possibility of granting temporary stay to recruits by the end of the calendar year in which they are 30 years old, in justified situations:... “ List these legitimate situations but don’t say anything – why didn’t you accept that the years are down to 27. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u27886	The 63rd amendment was submitted by MP Konstantin Arsenovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 66th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u27887	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 66. The draft law on military, labour and material obligations so that the third position of this member is changed. Namely, I will remind you that this amendment of mine refers to recruits who have dual citizenship, who are not regulated military obligations in any of the countries whose citizenship is up to 27 years old. Here, the bill stipulates that such persons are automatically treated as persons who have been regulated by the military's civil service to the military. In my opinion, the essence of my amendment is that, above all, it is necessary to determine why some of the persons did not serve the military term, because we know that there can be many reasons for not serving the military term. In fact, these reasons can be justified and unwarranted. We've had many times the situation that the reason for not serving the military deadline was also avoiding the military deadline. It is necessary to determine whether these persons have not regulated the military deadline for the purpose of avoiding military service and if it is established then it is necessary to apply, or to act in accordance with Article 138 of this law, which says, behold, I will only remind myself, in that case, that they may be released, but be translated into a reserve, with the law of the prescribed measures for non-execution of the military obligation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u27888	Member of the 68th amendment was submitted by MP Konstantin Arsenovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 69 of the amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u27889	With this amendment, we asked that a member of the professional reserve, in addition to the fees prescribed in the contract, be entitled to a cash fee in the amount fixed for each month during the duration of this contract and that the fee does not belong to him, therefore, that he does not belong to a member of the professional reserve, during the time when he is paid for his engagement in the active reserve. We believe that the terms of the active and passive reserve are inadequate, that they are inaccurate and that they do not, in fact, reflect what this reserve essentially represents. We are just initiating, with this amendment, firstly, that this active reserve is called - a professional reserve. Secondly, that a member of that professional reserve also belongs to the fee to be determined by the contract throughout the duration of the contract. Third, that this fee does not belong to him at the time of his engagement in an active reserve. So these three things we propose by this amendment are considered quite justified and logical. If one is a professional, it is normal for an engagement to receive a certain fee, it is normal for that fee to be regulated by the contract, it is normal that the fee is not received while receiving the salary, so it is also normal for you to accept this amendment. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u27890	National MP Milan Avramovic submitted to the 70th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u27891	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in accordance with the work of my colleagues, I have submitted an amendment to correct this bill. This amendment applies to Article 70 in which we define the precise position of the SRS – that an active reserve should be converted into a professional, to divide between an active and passive reserve – should not exist in all proposals of this law, especially when it comes to absence, and everything else that implies participation in the professional reserve. Therefore, in Article 70(1), I asked that the words "active reserves" be replaced by the words "professional reserve", that, in Section 3, "active reserve", be replaced by the words "professional reserve", and in the position of the 4th replacement of the word "active reserve" so that this attitude 4 would read: "Because of engagement in the military service, a member of the professional reserve cannot stop working relationship, nor could it be in an unequal position to other employees in relation to the exercise of labour rights. ''So, in principle, the position of the SRS is already well explained in previous amendments, and from all that I have also proposed this correction to be fully respected. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u27892	Thank you. National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 75th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u27893	Article 75 speaks of one document, the SRS has nothing to do with it, but Article 4 is generally unacceptable to us. That document, which regulates Article 75, is a military book, and that's where you say who gets the military book, when you keep it and where you keep it. An interesting point of view 3 says: "It is forbidden to bring out a military book from the Republic of Serbia. “ And it says there that alcohol intake is also forbidden, but some people bring in, and some people drink a little bit. "The form of the military booklet and the way it is published is prescribed by the defence minister. ''We suggested, in Section 4, that the Ministry do so. In Article 71(1), he says, "The military bonds are managed by the Ministry of Defence on a single record." There are members here in contrast and there is no reason why the Ministry should be responsible for issuing a military book form. What's gonna happen? For example, if there were any elections, the assembly majority chose the defence minister and he came and needed a military book form in three days. Who knows better than he does? Well, they know ministry employees, which is why they should do it. It wouldn't surprise us from the SRS if one law was passed, or proposed, and to say, I, the minister of the military, instead of all of you, would serve the army. What could possibly be done by the minister of the military? For reasons that if only he were a soldier, it would be easier to complete the process of destroying the Serb army. But while the citizens of Serbia, patriotically defined, Serbian Radical parties are on a political stage, such a law will not be possible and these suggestions will always be vigorously opposed. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u27894	Member of the 76th Amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here, you have a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u27895	Article 76 provides for the obligation of recruits and reservers to declare a change in their status within a certain legal time limit to the competent military authority. These changes and these obligations are set out collectively in the draft law, and I have submitted an amendment to which I propose that these obligations be separated, that the obligation of recruits be prescribed in one position, and in the other position of the reserver's obligation, for the simple reason, because I don't think it's the same thing. Also, I've suggested erasing certain obligations, which I consider simply excessive. For example, the draft law provides, in Article 76(3), for the following reasons: “The recruit and the person in the reserve shall be obliged to make changes within eight days of the day to the territorial authority in which the application is kept: 3) any change of health status relevant to the ability of the military service. “ I think it’s about bullying, this would make sense if, for example, it had been put in place – any permanent change in health conditions. So how does one reserver know that these are health changes that are very important for the execution of military obligations. Secondly, the obligation to report the type and place of performance of the registered independent or entrepreneurial activity shall be prescribed. I think this is completely excessive, that this literally has nothing to do with military obligations. The third obligation says to report other data of importance for the implementation of the military obligation. Here again, the question arises how does one military official, how does one individual assess what data is relevant to carrying out a military obligation? They should've been cited by the legislator. You're practically going from extreme to extreme. On the one hand, you allow individuals not to serve the Army, to serve the Army without uniforms and weapons, that after that so-called military service, they no longer have any obligation to defend the country, and on the other hand, these security individuals, who correctly carry out all their legal obligations, which are morally and responsibly referred to the defence of the country, among other things, by prescribing these criminal obligations. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u27896	Members of the 82nd amendment were submitted by MP Konstantin Arsenovic. Mr. Arsenović has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u27897	Mr. Chairman, I'd like to ask you, if possible, that those amendments the government has accepted be indicated. I'm not answering for them, so it won't be... In particular, the previous amendment was not accepted by the Security Committee. This amendment to Article 82, I have to connect to Article 85 because they are bound. The problem is interpreting the concept of work and material obligations. I suggested erasing this position 2 (I will read it) which reads: "Organs of the local self-government unit are responsible for ensuring the immediate fulfilment of the needs of citizens in emergency or war" and so on. What are the needs built? I guess it's food, water, health care, schooling, etc. We are talking about a broad notion of citizens, not of those who are subject to a working obligation. The question is, is there even a place in this position, because then where is the province, where is the state, etc? I accepted that it would remain in the same definition and be transferred to Chapter V, or rather to Chapter IV, since there is a printing error here, under the terms of a material obligation. I think it's logical that she has a place there, even if it's a discussion, because that's where it's talking about the Army, and that's a problem, but if we're going to define this term, then it's perfectly logical for me to move this attitude under the term or under chapter'material obligation'.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u27898	Thank you. The amendment was submitted by MP Milan Škrbic to article 89. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Alexander Martinovic submitted to Article 90 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Mr. Alexander Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u27899	First of all, Mr. Novakovic, I see that you and Mrs. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic have introduced one bad practice not to read everything you should read, because the MPs and citizens of Serbia who are following this transfer must know what the government's position on the proposed amendment is and must know whether the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible or not. You immediately move on to giving a word to the applicant of the amendment, probably in this way you want to shorten the length of the debate and buy time, but I would ask you to respect the Rules of Procedure and to give us all the information that matters, so that the MPs in the voting day may know whether they will support one amendment or not. Just because the government has not accepted the amendment does not mean that MPs cannot vote for it. And in order to make the right decision in the voting day, they must have all the information that is important for making such an important decision, because it is a law that regulates one matter that is important for every country, so it is important, I guess, for the Republic of Serbia. It would be nice if many of these laws or some of their provisions would not be applied in practice. None of us would like to see a war, a state of emergency or the need to engage the Serbian Army, etc., but that is unfortunately the case in today's world and as much as possible. In 1999 and, before that, probably no one could assume that NATO would bomb a European state, so that happened. And these illusions of some kind of eternal peace in Europe are obviously not established enough. So there is a possibility that these laws really should be applied in practice one day, and that it would not happen to us not to know who is doing what, it would be good for the laws to be clear, accurate, that the citizens of Serbia already know what their obligations will be in the event of the application of the law, this and all the other laws that we are discussing these days. Unfortunately, the law is not complete. We've pointed that out multiple times. Many provisions that must be regulated by law will be regulated by the underlaws of the minister. That's not good. The accumulation of regulations under the law can only be at the expense of the citizens of Serbia who are military bonds and to which this and other laws we are discussing will be applied. Another appeal to you, Mr. Vice President, to report to the MPs all the information that is being followed by one amendment, not to go straight to word giving. You have plenty of time, the Rules of Procedure absolutely gives you the opportunity to conclude the debate within a reasonable period of time, but don't give us that little time left to end by not telling us what the Government's position on the proposed amendment is and what the position of the Legislative Committee, or the competent committee on defence and security issues, is. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u27900	Therefore, for the sake of the public, all MPs, without exception, shall receive a regular and timely report from the Government, a report from the Legislative Committee and a report from the committee responsible, provided that the committee is in session. Therefore, all MPs are fully informed and have knowledge of which amendment the Government has accepted and which has not, or which has declared the Legislative Committee legally impossible. Just one more announcement, today I'll set a break at 1:30 to 2:30. Thank you. Member of the 91st Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Mrs. Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u27901	I have to tell you first, Mr. Vice President of the National Assembly, that you, what you just said, are theoretically right, but you should know that we don't exist here for ourselves, that we are MPs, representatives of the people, that we are sent here by the people and that the people need to know what we say and what the committees say, and what the government says. The only way to find out is by respecting the Rules of Procedure, you act the way your colleague Martinovic just told you. Of course, I'm not his lawyer, because there's no need for that, but I've seen a man come forward to replicate you, but unfortunately you don't allow anything like that. That's why I felt the need to say this. Members from 89 to 95, of this law, speak of a labour obligation in the task force, and we have proposed to delete those members. On behalf of the parliamentary group, I have proposed to delete Article 91 because persons who do not have a job obligation cannot be called to any units, either in peacetime or during emergency or wartime. The government says it does not accept the amendment because some members of the Law on Defence are regulated and working obligations. I remind you again, and I just said it, it doesn't make us bound by what's in some other law, because the laws aren't an unchangeable category, and it's best proven by this government and this congregation majority, so we have four or five laws in amendments and additions, the laws we passed a few months ago. One reason is that these laws provided for the adoption of sublegal acts and that they are exclusively in the power of the minister. That is also foreseen in this 91st article, this law, which I propose to delete. All Serbian citizens in the media were able to learn these days that neither the judiciary laws nor the judiciary, nor the Law on travel documents, would apply these laws, because the representatives of the government and the assembly majority do not listen to us from the SRS when we say that you are passing incomplete laws, and therefore inapplicable laws, and you are only making work for both the government and Parliament to spend every two months supplementing a law that has already been passed, and you are only putting out sentences of how many laws you have passed. And you will never say how many laws that are only amending and supplementing the existing law, and how many original new laws, which is actually the essential obligation of every, including this, parliament. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u27902	Thank you. Member of the 91st Amendment was submitted by MP Konstantin Arsenovic. Mr. Arsenović has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u27903	I have submitted an amendment in terms of extending the right to call for training. I'd better read: "Decision to call and control units in peace is made by the defence minister. '"That's what it says. I added, in the event of an emergency or wartime situation, all commands of the Serbia Army's troops to the battalion rank, in their areas of responsibility, in line with the usage plans. I can appreciate that the amendment is not accepted by the government, and what I cannot accept is an explanation in which a lack of trust with the military has been expressed. I'm talking about not accepting this amendment preventing abuse by unit and institution commands. That's unacceptable to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u27904	The 93rd amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u27905	Article 93 provides that, according to the works carried out, the work obligation in the labour force units is to be disbanded. I have to go back to Article 89 to explain why I'm asking you to delete this article 93, because by introducing this new concept, which so far has not existed, you don't give enough information, information, or regulate something that's related to these working units. So, it's not defined for any purpose, by any order, nor by any term of engagement, from which category these people are recruited, because if this 89th member says they're those who don't have a specific military schedule, that doesn't mean they're the ones who didn't serve the military deadline, because there are also those who served the military deadline and they don't have a military schedule. Do you think of women here for over 50 years or men over 60 years, and especially do not know what you mean when you say - territorial unit. Somehow our legacy leads us to the idea that it's a municipality or a city, but it's not, as I can estimate from this law, so it's not absolutely well defined. In general, we believe that the entire area is unnecessarily related to the labour obligation in the labour force units. And if you wanted to sort of engage those who don't fall under any of these previous categories, then you had to regulate it much more precisely. That is why we are asking for the removal of all these members under this subtitle – Working obligation in units of work obligation, although your reasoning does not satisfy me at all, because you say that the amendment is unacceptable for the reason that the labour force is a temporary assembly that is engaged in certain tasks and tasks when the needs require it, and we do not know what they are, or what they are, or what they are, and that units are disbanded by the task done. It's logical that if the task stops, and it can take six months, a year, 15 days, and there's absolutely no such thing here. And who is it that assesses when needs occur? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u27906	The amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric to Article 94.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u27907	For the same reasons as stated by Gordana Pop-Lazic, I have proposed to delete Article 94, which speaks of a record of the engagement of units of work obligation. These units are mainly engaged in war and emergency, and according to the SRS, under such circumstances, a record of military but labour force engagement should be kept exclusively by the Ministry of Defence. You from the ruling coalition finally need to decide whether you want Serbia to have a strong army, capable of responding to its constitutional obligations, or whether you want Serbia to have a weak army. If your goal is for Serbia to have a weak army that does not enjoy public trust in Serbia, the citizens of Serbia, which no one in the world takes seriously, then you are on a good path. Continue to retire the best officers, continue to sell out the technique, continue this circus with civilian military service. If you want Serbia to have a strong army capable of responding to its constitutional obligations, which is deterring aggressors in the event of aggression on Serbia's territory and when they acquire favourable international circumstances, the release of the occupied part of Serbia's territory, or KIM, there are three solutions. The first solution is to return mandatory military service and lift the possibility of serving without a weapon and extend the duration of the military term from six to nine months. It's just impossible for an untrained recruit, a young man, to make a trained soldier in six months. The second solution is to make full professionalisation of the Serbian Army, to increase the number of its members to 50,000 and to increase the age limit for the reception of individuals, military taxpayers in the professional service from the current 30 to 40 years, and to think of ordinary soldiers rather than officers. The third solution is to introduce voluntary military service. In that case, you increase the number of professional soldiers to 30,000, and to stimulate young people, to regularly respond to military service, to introduce an unfettered service for all young people who serve the Army with weapons. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u27908	Under the name of Glava IV and Article 95 of the amendment, MP Konstantin Arsenovic submitted. The word is Konstantin Arsenović.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u27909	I've already been through the amendment to article 82, and I've explained this amendment. This is about a printing error. I would only ask the minister to really take a look at my reasoning that I gave – that the position of Article 82 be transferred to Article 95, and that is the only thing I would like to add now, ( since the minister was not there and not now).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u27910	On Article 102, the amendment was submitted by MP Konstantin Arsenovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes)
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u27911	Here is not a questionable text itself, but it is disputed how to implement it – who is to determine or define which things in the list cannot be deployed in relation to these persons that are listed here. There are no criteria, there remains free will – an assessment of the one who determines it. In order to avoid abuse, I suggested that these two attitudes be deleted. I don't think anyone in their right mind is going to ask for something from a person who's disabled. So I think it's too high, but I think there may be abuse in these two attitudes.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u27912	The 108th amendment was submitted by a group of 20 MPs from the Prosperity Group of Serbia. The word has a folk MP, Mico Rogovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u27913	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Novakovic, because of your comment a little bit, and also because of the citizens following the session, I have to explain a little bit what it is that is defined in article 108 and what it is that we are asking the proposed amendment to change. It is precisely this 108th member who defines the title of Serbia's army and its priority, because it, as such, exists in conditions of war and emergency, is an armed force, whose first and primary duty is to defend the country and, normally, it is defined by the act itself and its existence. So this article 108 speaks of the right of the championship and gives a closer explanation of the ways in which things are filled. The amendment that we have submitted to Article 108(3), which reads in your proposal: “The merger of the material obligation and the wartime layout of the person, i.e. the handler of the matter, is done if the material asset requires special knowledge in handling. ''The SNS parliamentary group proposes that the merger of the material obligation and the military schedule of the owners of things, i.e. the handler, be done whenever conditions exist, when a material asset requires special knowledge of handling. The explanation that you have stated why you do not accept the amendment is primarily contrary to the proposed text that you have given in Article 108(3) means that it is contrary to your proposal for a law rather than our amendment. I must remind you, gentlemen of the Ministry's representatives, given that Mr. Minister is not there, you remember in 1999 and everything about the NATO pact's aggression on Serbia and parts of Serbia's territory, as well as the situation years after that – that the Serbian Army account has been blocked for a number of years, given the various damages that have taken place in all this. In Article 108, we continue to complement the possibility that such a situation may not occur, namely that material asset handlers have the right to use and handle them, means, in the same way as you have suggested, only even closer to reason, and that this situation should always be used, normally, rather than misused. Given that the debate on this law is at an end anyway, and I am sorry that the minister is not there, and given that these days talk about the trend of improving Serbia's military rating, we are glad and all Serbian citizens should be glad, and it is not Mr. Minister's fault for the negative trend and rating of the Serbian Army, it comes back from the 1990s and so we say, I must remind you of one fact that Mr. Minister has been pointing out these days, that this rating proves the last period of September, where there are a lot of military debtors left to not receive instructions to serve the military deadline, for the following reasons, the minister did not want to point out. In 2008, at the September class, we had 5,000 soldiers, which was reduced to 3,200 in 2009. By reducing the military, or those who serve the military deadline, there is a trend of trust in the military and a response to military service, you have to admit, we have a situation where more than 30% of the number is lower than the previous year and compared to 2006, and now in 2009, so the number of those who are serving the military deadline with over 20,000 has now fallen to 7,000, the situation has been dramatically disturbed in favour of this story that I'm talking about. And it all needs to go to the heart of the professionalization of soldiers, because the situation in which the indicators say that a soldier at military service costs almost the same as a professional soldier, but when it comes to participation in multinational operations, because it's a very interesting topic, it says in favour of all this that the professionalization of the Army really needs to be brought to life. You remember the promise that all ministers, including you now, from year to year, that by January 1, 2010, there will be no more soldiers at military service, that the military will be professional. It's being delayed from year to year. For what reason? For reasons of lack of financial resources, because such an act and such an act, which is not only a monthly period, was able to implement Macedonia for seven months this procedure for reasons of the size of its territory and the existence of active professional composition and people who were interested. But we cannot do it in view of the environment and the situation that exists in Serbia, both geographically and territorially and everything that has happened to us in the past. I do not think that these arguments of trend are very much in favour, we are pleased that the trend continues, not because of you, but because of Serbia, because indeed the tradition that exists, that trust in the Serbian Army was really great, should return, not because you are in power, but because of the tradition and importance of the Serbian Army's uniform. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u27914	Thank you, Mr. Rogovic. On Article 114, the amendment was submitted by MP Konstantin Arsenovic. Mr. Arsenović has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u27915	Simply, this member creates a misunderstanding and confuses in general in terms of solving. I'll read it anyway, so it'll be clearer. It is said: “If the owner does not have another suitable thing, he is obliged to immediately perform a territorial authority that provides for the deployment and deployment of other relevant items. “ I understand that — if I don’t have the right thing as the owner of things, then I’m obliged to give another suitable thing, and I don’t understand how I can give it instead of a truck. I suggested, I think it's quite clear my amendment, which says, "If the owner doesn't have another suitable thing, he is obliged to immediately execute a territorial authority that provides redistribution from other owners of things. “ So, then, the territorial authority must provide the right thing from another, not now to force the previous owner to provide another suitable thing.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u27916	Thank you. National MP Konstantin Arsenovic submitted to the 120th amendment. The government has accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Thank you. The amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Srdjan Spasojevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 131 of the amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Spasojevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 132 of the amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Spasojevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 134 of the amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Spasojevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 135 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vlatko Ratkovic. The government has accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 138 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u27917	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, again I have to make one remark to Mr. Novakovic, the way you hold the session when we discuss the amendments. As I understand it, you are declaring the position of the Government and the opinion of the Legislative Committee only when it comes to amendments accepted by the Proposer, and when it comes to amendments which are not accepted by the Proposer, you immediately move on to giving words. For example, I was in doubt about Mr. Konstantin Arsenovic's amendment, whether they were accepted or not. You know, it's a little strange that an MP of the ruling coalition submits so many amendments to the bill that has been drafted, in a political sense, by his government, where his representative and head of the party is Vice-President of the government. So it would be good to say what the government thinks about what amendments are, whether it accepts them or does not accept them. This is of great importance, not because of the MPs, we have all received the government's opinion and the position of the Legislative Committee, but because of the citizens of Serbia who are following this transfer. You had a case recently under the Diaspora Bill, that the head of the ZES Parliament Club had a clear objection to the bill coming from, conditionally speaking, its governments. Again, you have a situation where the ruling coalition MP submits a dozen very solid amendments to the bill coming from the same government, and we don't know what the government thinks about it. It is an extremely important law that is in no way irrelevant. As far as this amendment is concerned, which I have submitted to Article 138, it is a life situation. The point is that the recruit who had spent 30 years of his life on the day of entry into force of this law did not go to military service, and the territorial authority found that he had not avoided a military obligation. I ask: What will be done in such a situation? The SRS considers that such a citizen should be referred to serve the military term without taking the prescribed measures. The question arises – is such a situation possible? It's possible. It's possible the military administration wasn't up-to-date. A man turned 30 years old, and without his own guilt he was not referred to military service. Then what are you gonna do about it? That such a safestin citizen should be referred to military service, without taking any kind of law. Then the government gave the following explanation: ''Amendment is not accepted for reasons that recruits are over 30 years old, in the status of extended recruiting obligations... '"Now there is one part of a sentence that I really don't understand 'and that is legally prescribed to delay the service of a military term to 35 years of life. In this way, and in accordance with Article 61(4). The proposal of this law cannot be made after 30 years of life. ''Here you say,'someone can delay the service of a military term to 35 years of life, and we say, ''those who have turned 30 years of life are referring to the service of the military term'''' and the Government says, 'they cannot commit themselves after 30 years of life.' It's a completely pointless explanation. The essence of this amendment has absolutely not been understood. This is evidence of how much the government has gone unseriously towards considering these amendments. That's why we, Mr. Novakovic, insist on hearing what the government's brilliant opinion of the proposed amendments is. Not because of the MPs, as you say, we have received in the material, because of the citizens who are following this transmission. We're not just talking to each other, we're not just talking to a representative of the government, who, by the way, is not here, we're talking to the citizens. Tomorrow these citizens will be subject to the provisions of this law. That's why we're saying this, that they know what the government is up to. You say you got it in the material! If so, stop the TV transmissions, then what citizens have to watch something they didn't get in the material, just because they didn't get it, citizens have to be informed about what's going on in the National Assembly. How is it possible for the head of the ruling coalition's parliamentary group to pass such a salva of objections to the Diaspora Act? How is it possible for Mr. Konstantin Arsenovic to propose more than 10 amendments to the bill coming from the government he supports? It's because of the citizens! It is very clear to our MPs, but it would be good for the citizens to see how the ruling coalition that promised them hills and valleys works. Now, when it comes to adopting these, allegedly, reform laws and European laws – something is stinging. That's why we've made that observation, Mr. Novakovic. It would be good for you to take that remark and really tell us what the Government's opinion on all amendments is, regardless of who is the applicant for the amendment and whether the Government accepts or does not accept this amendment. Please tell me this time I've extended my calculations as a time-authorized representative.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u27918	Thank you. A group of 20 MPs from the Prosperity Group submitted to the 138th amendment. The government has accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 138 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljubisa Petkovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Mr. Petkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u27919	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS Parliamentary Group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 138 and suggested that Article 2 be amended and that the new text in paragraph 2 reads: 'The draft which, on the date of entry into force of this law, turned 30 years old, and the territorial authority finds that it has avoided the obligation, will refer to the service of the military deadline and take the prescribed measure. 'Ladies and gentlemen, I'm sure this amendment will not be accepted by the Minister, by the Government or by anyone else, because this position 2 must remain, in the true sense of the word, in the same text of the bill. This attitude was otherwise introduced in order to avoid the painless and detachment of some individuals of a generation, who, by the order of the then Doss, avoided responding to military service and participating in the defence of the homeland in 1999. I hope you're not looking for proof of this claim, but mathematically, it fits completely. In 1999, the generation was 20 years old, today, in 2009, ten years later, in the '30s. You would only free them from military service and not only free them, but also not prosecute them. For these reasons, the SRS Parliamentary Group has submitted this amendment. We propose that instructions to serve the military term, as well as against persons who have been found to have been avoided by the Constitution of the military deadline, be initiated by a criminal prosecution procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u27920	Thank you, Mr. Petkovic. The 141st amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Batic. The government has accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Since we have completed the examination of the Bill's proposal in particular, does the Proposer's representative want to make the final statement? No, I don't. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 6th point of the agenda: – PROPOST OF THE LAW OF CIVILNO JERVA (individual) You have received amendments submitted at the proposal of the law by the MPs: Konstan Arsenović, Tomislav Nikolić, Jorgovanka Tabaković, Zoran Antic, Veroljub Arsić, Zoran Babić, Igor Bečić, Jelena Budimirović, Bozidar Delić, Stefan Zankov, Mito Kišmarton, Milan Knezemić, Saka Maksimović, Zoran Mašić, Predrag Mijatović, Ljiljana Miladinović, Neboša Poskurić, Gojko Radić, Mićo Rogović, Vučana Tožanović, Dragović, Dragan Čalan Čalko Ratović, Vlatko Ratović, Čatko Ratović, Čamir Jovanovic Jovanović, Čaran Ostović, Zaljan Ostović, Veštović, Veštović, Vesna Poš, Nebojljan Poš, Nebojša Poš, Nebojljtić, Neboščević, Nebić By written amendment, they withdrew: Parliamentarian Konstantin Arsenović to art. 45th and 57th, a group of 20 MPs from the Group of Members of the Parliament to Serbia on Article 13th and MP Zoran Antic on Article 17. You've received the Government's opinion on the amendments. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs Cedomir Jovanovic, Zoran Ostojić, Vesna Pesic, Nebojsa Rangelovic and Kenan Hajdarevic submitted together to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Mr. Ostojić, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u27921	Thank you, President-in-Office, dear Minister, for coming, colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament and MPs, we propose that in Article 1, the definition of "military obligations in civil service" be changed to "execution of civil service". We think that this formulation shows a fundamental misunderstanding of what civil service is military service and therefore we think that "execution of civil service" is a more appropriate term, especially when it is later used in this particular term – "execution of civil service". I will remind viewers that the Council of Europe, the Commission for Human Rights of the UN and the European Parliament, in 1987, declared this principle, as an obligation for countries belonging to the Council of Europe, that recruits have the right to express their objections and to allow them alternative services, not military services without weapons. In November 1999, the Council of Europe published a study of the legislation of the Member States, which served as the basis for the 2001 Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe's recommendation to express concern over the widespread restrictions on the application of the right of conscience, as well as discrimination against individuals who are calling on it. The Amnesty International called on the European Parliament, therefore, to regulate the special resolution to recognise the right to object, as well as to determine the duration of the alternative service, not the military without weapons, within which it itself does not constitute a punishment and so on. The fact that this is how it is formulated shows a lack of understanding of what our obligations are to European integration. Civil service is defined here, by this definition, as serving a military term in civil service, while individuals who used the right to object are actually soldiers at civil service. Hence, a solution was created to ensure that the former Ministry of Defence's civil service was carried out through its territorial units. Also, we think it's better this way, and nothing is essentially going to change. According to data available for 2008, the percentage ratio of military taxpayers who are referring to military service with weapons and persons who object to conscience and perform civil service is 52 to 48 in favour of civil service. So there's a little more of those who don't want to carry guns. Of the approximately 70,000 requirements for military service service in 2003, we have this information, the competent authorities have rejected approximately 3,900, which is generally acceptable. The Council of Europe's recommendation number 87 contains a number of principles that competent authorities must abide by in respect of the right to object to conscience and to provide alternative services. The first principle - the competent authorities are obliged to inform an individual who is recruiting through various information materials about the right to object. The second – if an individual who objects to his conscience is rejected, he must be given the right to appeal. The third – the authorities that are considering the complaint must be separated from the military and placed in a way that guarantees their independence in the work. The fourth – individuals can exercise the right to object at any time of military obligation, including the reserve composition. The Fifth - Alternative Service must be performed in a civil institution. The sixth – length of duration of the alternative service must not accept the character of the penalty. The Council of Europe says that double service is already a punishment, that one and a half, roughly, is acceptable. All these principles are the reason we submitted some more amendments. I'm going to stop now, because the first amendment, in fact, refers to the definition of civil service. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u27922	Minister Sutanovac has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u27923	I can agree with your discussion, but I think it's less important than what the Constitution obliges us to do. The Constitution in Article 45 says: "A person who is called upon to object can be called upon to fulfil the military obligation without obligation to bear arms, in accordance with the law. "It is simply that we have consulted the Constitution and we cannot insert what you propose, whoever suggested it, because it is for us a legal act that binds us.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u27924	The National MP Nenad Canak submitted to the 1st Amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Mr. Chanak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u27925	Thank you. Since the League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina has submitted several amendments mainly to the same thing, which is a matter of regulation of this matter, I would like to begin with what the important Mr. Minister has said. So, Article 45. The constitution says: "A person who is called upon to object can be called upon to fulfil a military obligation without obligation to bear arms, in accordance with the law. "So, without obligation to carry a weapon, according to the law. "The law cannot prescribe that the face still carries the weapon. And right now, there's a series of misunderstandings that we've tried to correct with our amendments. It should be said that this law is extremely good and important for regulating the area it deals with, but some things need to be clarified. First of all, all our amendments are based on the fact that the definition of civil service should be based solely on the free will of a military debtor and that there must be no body that assesses his conscience, nor on the conditions under which one can object. This is in line with the documents of the Council of Europe and the EU, which express that it is one of the fundamental human rights. Resolution 337 of the 1968 Council of Europe says that the body that makes the decision to object should be completely separate from the military authorities and its composition should guarantee maximum independence and impartiality. In this law, it's not meant to be. Also, Recommendation 816 of 1987 states that the right to object should be seen as a right that logically and directly stems from the fundamental rights of an individual in the democratic rule of law, guaranteed by Article 9. European Conventions on Human Rights. All our amendments are aimed at adopting the principle defined in Resolution 337 of 1967, that no commission can question the conscience of an individual and that the motives of each individual to object to a conscience must be satisfactory, in most cases. In other words, it is not on the European path of developing this country that the military commission is reviewing the individual's conscience. Our amendments are heading in this direction so that each of us, without questioning, can determine whether or not they will perform military service with or without the use of weapons. On the other hand, I would warn that the law makes it difficult to exercise the right to object, for example, in Article 5 of this law – a number of reasons are put in place that make it impossible for a person to express his conscience, one of them being a member of the'shooter' and'shooter' society. Article 7 also requires that proof be submitted that he is not a member of such a society and that he was not a member of such a society. Look, I'm talking about shooting and shooting companies. In what way, Mr. Minister, if you'd be so kind as to answer me, do you think someone can collect confirmations from all the "shooting and shooting companies" in the Republic of Serbia that he is not their member? It thus restricts the possibility of exercising the right to object and we think it would be useful to remove all restrictions on the use of this institute of conscience. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u27926	Thank you. National MP Boris Aleksic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Canak. Thank you very much. The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Acimovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Mr. Acimovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u27927	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have tabled an amendment to the Civil Service Act and I suggest that a complaint be deleted in article 3. This law enables some, instead of military training, and this minimum time period is served with honor and honesty, as our ancestors did in the previous period, civil service of the military term by hospitals, public utility companies and other state institutions, which is a demeaning of the Serbian military tradition and the entire Serbian people. The objection of conscience, which treats this member of the bill, does not mean civilian service of the military term. The objection of conscience means that the person who calls on him simply does not want to handle the weapon, and this problem can be regulated through other laws, such as the law on military, labour and material obligations. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u27928	Thank you, Mr. Acimovic. The People's MP, Nenad Canak, submitted to the Third Amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Konstantin Arsenović. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Mr. Arsenović, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u27929	I would ask Mr. Minister to listen carefully to my amendment. I suggested that Article 3 be deleted. I will read it: "The objection of conscience can also be made by a military official in the Serbian Army's reserve system, after a four-year period has expired since the end of the service of the military term with arms. '"Mr. Minister, if this stays theoretically this way, all those who served a military term four years ago may object to their conscience and that you no longer have a reserve. I don't think a specific can stand. So I ask you to reconsider this article or redecorate it, or accept this amendment of mine. You are the most responsible man to function in the army. We need to think about what's going to happen tomorrow. If it stays like this, we'll lose our reserve. It remains to defend the state only for the youngest four generations, which is unacceptable.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u27930	Thank you. The 3rd amendment was submitted by a group of 20 MPs of the Progress Serbia Group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) In the same text, the People's MPs Milorad Buha and the MPs Dragan Šormaz, Jovan Palalic, Miroslav Petkovic, Milos Aligrudic, Aleksandar Pejcic and Zoran Nikolic submitted to the 4th amendment. The word is Mr. Milorad Buh.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u27931	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable citizens of Serbia, I have submitted an amendment on behalf of the SRS to Article 4, which is why I have requested that it be deleted. For the sake of the public, I will read the provisions of Article 4. The bill, which says: 'The territorial authority is obliged to recruit in a call for entry into military records, medical examinations and service of the military deadline, deliver a notice of his right to object and act in order to exercise that right. ''This legal formulation is what we have obliged the territorial state authority to literally urge a person in all procedures, administrative and legal procedures, to be able to do so. Therefore, even when introducing military records, it is mandatory for the territorial authority to deliver a notice in the course of medical examinations, then to serve the military time limit, etc. We're just trying to get him to take advantage of the law. Is it in our interest for that person to serve a civilian or military deadline? This is literally coaxing, which is an anti-constitutional category. He can achieve his constitutional right regardless of whether we persuaded him not to. This is even contrary to the legal provisions of the Law on the Army and the Law on Defence. That's why I'm asking this member to be deleted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u27932	Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Konstantin Arsenovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Mr. Arsenović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u27933	I'm not going to explain this amendment, but I'm going to take the time to just say one more thing about the previous amendment. I once again ask the minister to consider it, since I didn't get his opinion. Otherwise, as a man I bring, I wonder if I should ever vote for this law. You know, despite my personal convictions, that I've expressed my praise about this law and I think it's well written in many elements, but this kind of rule, once again I withdraw, brings me into a dilemma of what and how to act.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u27934	Thank you. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Veselinovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Mr. Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u27935	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this civil service law is just a continuation of the further collapse of all the values of our system, as well as the undermining of the defence will of the Republic of Serbia. Namely, in front of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 5 of this Civil Service Act, where I demand that Article 5 be deleted, and the whole law should not exist in this form, because, as I said, we undermine our defence power of Serbia. Article 5 says the right to object to the conscience cannot be achieved by a military official, recruit and person in the reserve. Then here are the provisions relating to the possession of a weapon, then if it has filed an application for carrying and holding a weapon, if it is legally convicted of a criminal offence for which it is prosecuted by official duty, and so on, it's listed until point 9, not to read. If we take all of this into account and take it seriously, we will have a large portion of the young population serving a civilian military deadline. Normally, we'll also compromise the number of soldiers who will serve the real army. I want citizens, and for the sake of the public, to say that the Civil Service Act is harmful and this could have been included in some other law on military obligations. In this way, it would avoid forcing young people, young populations to serve the civilian army. Hala. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u27936	Thank you. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Vlatko Ratkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Konstantin Arsenović. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Arsenović.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u27937	This amendment, which I have submitted, simply, is the harmonisation of the provisions of one law and another, I have equated the right to object, that is, if one cannot exercise the right to object, and in the Law of Military, Labour and Material Obligation and Civil Service, by adding two other provisions, because I do not believe that there should be any difference between the objection of conscience to civil service and the objection of conscience to military service without weapons. Therefore, that was the purpose of this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u27938	Thank you. On Article 5 of the amendment, with correction, was filed by MP Nenad Canak. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 5th amendment was submitted by a group of 20 MPs from the Prosperity Group of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Vukovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Canak. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs Momcilo Duvnjak and Nenad Canak submitted to the seventh amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Momcilo Duvnjak.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u27939	Dear People's MPs, we have before us a proposal for a civil service law on which the SRS has a large number of objections. The basic and main is that we consider this bill to be harmful and unnecessary, and for these reasons I submit an amendment and suggest that Article 7. The bill is deleted because it treats the request for civil service. Namely, this kind of right to object to the conscience of a person who is under military obligation and to carry out a military obligation in civil service is the latest date and, as far as we know, there are fewer and fewer supporters from year to year. For this reason, the proposal had to make a detailed analysis of today’s experience in civil service. Namely, what has been the contribution to the work of the authorities, organisations and institutions of engaged young people in civil service, who are these young people, the structure, the profession, their education, which are dedicated to civilian service of the military term? According to some of our research and knowledge, this and such work in bodies and institutions was carried out by employees in them, and if the work increased, a number of unemployed persons from the National Employment Service had to be employed. It would be good to know how much material savings there was in certain bodies and institutions, where there were young people in civil service, as well as how much costs they cost for this type of military service. There are many shortcomings in this law, for example, state authorities, organisations, institutions, legal entities, where civil service can be done. How come you did not predict that civil service could be done in institutions, businesses and organisations, for example, informative activities? We have here in law that civil service can be done in organisations financed from the budget of the Republic of Serbia. Why can't civil slavery be done in organizations financed from the budget of local self-government? Finally, in addition to these and other shortcomings, the Civil Service Bill, which is unnecessary, should be returned to the promoter for serious work. I think you'll accept this proposal. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u27940	Thank you. The 8th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by a group of 20 MPs of the Prosperity Group, Serbia and MP Branimir Djokic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u27941	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, together with colleagues from the Prosperity Group, Serbia-Serbian Progressive Party, I have tabled an amendment to the Civil Service Bill proposing to delete a member of the 8th draft law. The draft law in Article 8 provides for the establishment, i.e. the establishment of a Centre for Civil Service, which did not exist in the present system. That way, you're just unnecessarily increasing such a huge ministry. That the Ministry of Defence is unnecessarily grotesquely telling the fact that within the framework of the Defence Policy Sector there is a Liaison Group with the Parliament of the Republic of Serbia. I would like to know, and I believe that other fellow MPs would like, what is the work of that group and for what is it that citizens of Serbia, taxpayers, pay from their own resources? That the unnecessary establishment of such a centre also speaks of the fact that there are authorities in the Ministry of Defence, as well as military-terroral bodies that have so far carried out tasks related to the planning, organisation, coordination, control and execution of civil service. In addition, within the framework of the Department of Defence Policy, there is an Organizational Administration whose job is to be the holder of tasks and post-organisational and mobilization functions of the defence system and thus also civil service. It is an unmistakable explanation, Mr. Minister, that analyses, controls and conclusions regarding the way civil service has been done so far have unequivocally pointed to the need to form a Civil Service Centre. All this suggests that the government of the Republic of Serbia, along with more than a hundred agencies, is now moving to form various centres where it will hire political equalists and throw money away, while citizens of the Republic of Serbia are squirming in existential problems. I urge you to accept this amendment in the voting day, and free the citizens of Serbia from new charges.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u27942	Thank you, Mr. Granny. The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u27943	I absolutely agree that the needless existence of the Group for Co-operation with the Serbian Parliament and currently only one man is working in the group, and according to a new proposal for systematicisation, the group is being abolished as such. That's where you hit it, but it's an inherited condition, what do we do, we'll figure it out real quick.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u27944	Thank you. National MP Srboljub Zivanovic submitted to the 9th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Srboljub Zivanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u27945	In front of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 9 of this Civil Service Act. The argument of the Government states: 'Amendment shall not be accepted for the reasons set out in the explanation of the amendments under regular number 1.' Based on this answer, we can see how the government understood this law, because it did not want to answer me as an MP to this amendment. In this article, you're talking about the Civil Service Centre to allegedly track a civilian soldier in his service. I would like to take the opportunity to ask the Minister a few questions: 1) What are the criteria for deciding on the number of regular and civilian soldiers, since we had previously heard Mr. Minister say that there was a greater number of those who wanted to serve the military deadline than there were opportunities? We do not know what conditions it is that all the soldiers who wanted to serve the regular military service could not have been accepted? Also, I'm afraid that with civilian military service, you're hiding a difficult situation in the barracks, I know that many have been bombed and that their reconstruction has not been done. You probably know that you didn't need them, because there are a lot of those who are construction workers among the soldiers, so with a little investment, but honestly, everything would be restored and reconstructed. Look at those barracks that are used, living conditions and staying in them are bad, objects are insecure and dangerous. 2) The weapons and the tools are obsolete, and in many, they are faulty. Motor and combat vehicles are as capable as the Enver Hodge. I'm asking you, did you do anything as a minister, on that matter, because I know you're a technical person? And you're probably fighting one big battle these days so that dedicated production, or weapons and tools factories can compete with the world's forces. If you'll excuse me, I would like to answer one question, which was asked yesterday by a group of MPs when in the discussions many called on the daughter heroes – I believe they turn bones when their descendants talk about their heroism! Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u27946	Thank you, Mr. Zivanovic. The title above article 10 and article 10 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Canak. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) The 10th Amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Zivkov? Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MPs Nikola Žutić and Nenad Canak to Article 11 of the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Antic. The word is Mr. Antic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u27947	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Article 11, refers to the Civil Service Commission, which is educated as a special commission unlike what we've had so far, that military sections educate a special commission to do this work, so it's under the supervision of the military department. This law proposes that supervision, in fact, of the work of these commissions be carried out by the ministry, possibly by an authorised person in the ministry. Obviously, we have one quite opposite practice of what we've had so far, that these commissions are so unchangeable. Eventually, if there are any abuses across the military district's command, the ministry is asked to amend the members of those commissions. In my opinion, it has gone to an entirely different extreme, that this commission, which seems to me, is much more exposed, and could be abused when these demands for civil service are military. The mandate for members of the commission is reduced to three years, which seems to me to be too little, given that in the 3rd position of this member, the minister has the opportunity to react directly when it comes to the members of the commission – if there are any abuses or if there is a need to change one of the members of the commission, or a person who is authorised by him, can change one of the members. He can do that very easily. However, knowledge of the area requires professional people, people who will be able to meet the obligations arising from the law in a longer period of time. I felt it was necessary for this deadline, which is too small, to be extended to at least four years. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u27948	He's got the word Mr. Shutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u27949	I answered the word for the applause that my colleague Babic gives to his colleague Antic, which is the negation of his amendment. So, you made Babić a proposal to abolish the commission, and your colleague Antić makes a proposal – to increase the commission that has three members to four. Now you're applauding him. I'd just like you to explain to me how it can be four better than three, in a situation where you're trying not to be one? Really, I mean... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u27950	There's a word Mr. Zoran Babic, mentioned, sorry, Mr. Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u27951	You denied me the right to reply, Mr. Minister, knowing that you do not accept the amendment of the Serbian Progressive Party, in this context Mr. Antic was also speaking behind it, I would just like you to explain to me something you said yesterday, that the Ministry of Defence, or the Army of the Republic of Serbia has never been in a better situation, has it ever been in a better condition – does this mean that you are much, much, more Defence Minister than Mr. Boris Tadic? (Dear Shutanovac from the scene: if what you came up with yesterday? )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u27952	Please, Mr Anticu, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u27953	I would say briefly, this amendment that I was talking about, I filed it myself. It is therefore not a parliamentary group, and it is perfectly normal that as an individual, they may have a different opinion. As part of the Parliamentary Group on Different Themes, we all have our views. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u27954	We understand. Thank you, Mr Antic. The amendments were submitted to Article 12, by the MPs Nenada Canak and Radiša Ilic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were submitted to Article 13 in the same text by the MPs Natasa Jovanovic and Nenad Canak. The word is Miss Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u27955	Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here you are all witnesses to this and you know that the SRS has always claimed that serving a civil military deadline has led to absurdity, especially in a situation where the state is obviously not concerned about what is the social interest, which is a demographic problem, which is a problem for the future, and as many Serbian radicals have said – a problem for the defence power of the country. Since the world and the century, in Serbia, when a male child is born counts and rejoices in advance that he will one day go to the military and serve his military time fairly, show himself in the right light and thus light his face and his ancestors. In a book I have not yet given you, and I intend to, Mr Sutanovac, "The Ideology of Serbian Nationalism" by Prof. Dr. Vojislav Seselj, especially because of your truly brilliant observations yesterday on the subject of betrayal, the loss of honor and everything that has happened in some who have forgotten what ideology they have advocated, and now have gone to that side of you and become more radical in their approach to the NATO Pact, the EU and everything that they now advocated even louder than you, therefore, in that book, Professor Seselj's research, not only through what the writings have come to, Laze M. Kostic, but also from others who have written, and even many foreign authors, travellers, statesmen – what has been the role of the Serbian army over the centuries? So there's no historical data that says otherwise, because the Army has always been honorable, highly moral, ready to carry out all tasks. Now in this situation in Serbia, when there are 15,000 young people, healthy, real, who commit themselves, and now the Constitution and the law give them the right, the so-called civil service of the military deadline, the question arises – and how do you take care of unemployment and the fact that these same jobs can be done by people who are unemployed or people with limited working skills? This Article 13 shows, although you intended to civil service of the military term, after the 2003 regulation, and the 2005 ones, you did not go to the end. Article 13, which I ask to delete, because it is unspecified, because the rule on how to form the First-degree and Second-degree Commission will be reorganised by a sublegal act, or you will, as a minister, be the one to make the rules, which was, therefore, an observation to the past law, and here it is now and again in this. We believe that young people in Serbia, and especially people who need to know what our tradition is and who are fighting for a better future in this country, should commit to what I have always said to them was the honor and pride of every Serb and every soldier. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u27956	Thank you. Now, on the basis of Article 85(1), we interrupt work for one hour, until 2.30. Thank you for your cooperation.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u27957	We continue to work in the afternoon part of the session by discussing details of the 6th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Civil Service Act. The debate in particular continues with the amendment to the title above Article 14 and to Article 14 submitted by MP Nenad Canak. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Radica Jocic, submitted to Article 15 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter, Radica Jocic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u27958	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, honourable citizens, on behalf of the SRS Parliamentary Group, I have tabled an amendment to Article 15. Proposal for a Civil Service Act, which, as well as my colleagues in previous amendments, I have requested to be a member of 15. The bill is deleted. Since we've been discussing a set of military laws for several days now, it's likely that the SRS is already a clear stance on civil service. The SRS believes that the honorable citizens of Serbia, who have a rich military past, do not need such a law at all. I come from a place where today is a special honor to serve the Army in uniform. The pyrot is a city that many, probably from this hall, remember by being there, serving the army, met the Pyrocans as worthy and benevolent people. A city where she once worked and lived with the city was one of the largest barracks in which there are now only 30 miles [30 km] from the Gradin border crossings no soldiers, and more than 20 active elders and civilians travel daily to Zaječar to work in a barracks there. The area above the White Palanca known as the Sljevivacski vis, whose strategic significance were obviously to meet in detail and all the foreigners, because it was immediately shot at the start of the 1999 bombing and since then there has been no military crew, it has been said that for very little money it has been sold "Belami TV". These are just two small examples from southeastern Serbia where military facilities sometimes and with all their assets are going down daily. In the meantime, we're dealing with details about a farce called civil service, which is funny to everyone who serves a military term, and by the way, they're no longer called "soldiers" but "face," and their parents and everyone else. We still have to imagine that these faces will be able to, evil should not, defend the state. Still the government in this article prescribes where non-deployable persons can't be deployed who have a request for civil service. They're just missing a schedule where they used to be employed, where their employees are family members or where they go to school and study so they feel absolutely at home. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u27959	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) If not, the People's MP, Nenad Canak, submitted to Article 15 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 16 of the amendment in the same text, the MPs Nenad Canak and Ljubomir Kragovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has the People's MP Ljubomir Kragovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u27960	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on the proposal of the Civil Service Act, I have submitted an amendment to Article 16 requesting that it be deleted. The reason for the amendment lies in the principled attitude and policy of the SRS that the Civil Service Law proposal violates the defence power of the Republic of Serbia. The reason we received from the Ministry of Defence is by the Constitution guaranteed the right of citizens to object. I would ask the question of the minister and the ruling majority that makes this coalition in this parliament – why is there no such possibility of a right to work, especially for young people who have completed their education and cannot reach employment or the right to live that is necessary for Serbs in the area of Kosovo and Metohija? On the other hand, I would like to point out that this policy and such legal projects have just violated Serbia's defence power and it comes down to what Boris Tadic answered recently, a few days ago, in an interview that gave the "Nin" list the question of what about Kosovo and Metohija -- that a year and a half ago the interest of citizens in the Kosovo and Metohija problem was 75% and now it fell to 5% to 6%. That is exactly what suggests the execution of all these legal projects and the execution of this government of the Republic of Serbia. If the state and national issue is the problem of Kosovo and Metohija, it has managed to come down from 75% to 5%, then it should be asked this people what kind of government this has succeeded in such a short time that one state and national issue, which should be a priority, which is the area of Kosovo and Metohija, and the constitutional obligation of all to protect the state of Serbia, reduces to such a small percentage of Serbia's citizens' interest. Otherwise, I can say that if you are so much in favour of this objection of conscience that citizens in the Republic of Serbia can serve civil protection, I would also like you to advocate the right to live the remaining 130,000 Serbs in the area of Kosovo and Metohija, as well as the right to return 250 thousand Serbs who have been expelled from the space of Kosovo and Metohija. This morning, watching Dnevnik, I listened to information that the German government decided to return 10,000 Roma to Kosovo and Metohija, which I welcome, but therefore there is no action, no initiative by the government of the Republic of Serbia to return 250,000 Serbs to Kosovo and Metohija. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u27961	It was used one minute from the MP's group's time. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 17 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u27962	It is a conceptal disagreement, and I also say there is a problem with the constitutionality of this bill. I'm gonna take the chance to explain a little bit what this is about? In Article 45, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia states that the situation could result in the fulfilment of military or other obligations, which include the use of weapons, being excluded because of the so-called objection of conscience, which is, by the Constitution, religious commitment and one of the beliefs. Of course, the fact that someone has to fulfil the obligation, so it's fulfilled in another way, and not by means of a weapon, you've replaced it with a kind of synonym, you've introduced civil service. To justify this, you said in Article 3 that these could be religious reasons, moral and other justifiable reasons. You see for yourself, what is basically and essentially in this bill and what is, if I may say so, a legal framework or constitutional authority is a big difference. I have to do it because of the younger viewers who are monitoring this transmission, and also because of the older viewers I want to remind, you see 70 to 80 years ago, it was a great honor to serve the Army. In this way, man was thought to show his loyalty and love for his homeland. The ultimate evidence of patriotism was that man responded to the call of the state. When we were attacked, we almost didn't need a call. There was no need for law, no reserve composition, no this, no that, that was interesting for the faces with uniforms, but for the common man it was a matter of honor. As it is a matter of honour in Russia to respect Serbia, it was in Serbia and the Serbian people the matter of honor to take everything and everything into their hands to defend the state, defend the people, because we were always attacked. It may seem funny to you, but before, say, 40 years ago, my aunt went out to some fair, a nice guy came along, they liked each other, the first thing she asked him was, did Nikola, did you serve the Army? He says I came ten days ago. Let me see. It was legitimate for him to serve the Army and that he was a real man, capable of hosting the family. When I went to the Army in 1980, I had a colleague who said, well, you fool, you're going to the Army, you're going to lose one Golf, so much to make in that year the amount of money you're supposed to be in the Army. Unfortunately, he's blind today. It was in the Army of those who pretended to be crazy, to avoid the Army, today they're all crazy. What they were doing, it seemed funny at the time, interesting, but the weather showed that they weren't very real, they were just like that. So I call on our youth, they will vote this rotten coalition of this bill, they will introduce this synonym civil service, they will all end it nicely – children dear, you love your Serbia, you love your people, you respond, you go, you serve the Army, you handle them a little bit with these guns and with those things, they're bad times! Today is the time of great individualism, people need to be ready and able to live a collective life to demonstrate some unity. I wish civil service was a young man's labour force, so let's back it up. Of course, all states choose their systems to provide defense. Take an example of Israel, take an example of some other countries, it is an honor and pride everywhere to defend your country. A lot of bad things have been done in this country to degrade, demean, and every thought of defending your country and your people. That's why I call on young people, you love Serbia, you love our army, we'll change in a few months who lead the army!
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u27963	Two minutes and 50 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u27964	Ladies and gentlemen, the SRS has tabled several amendments, and the MPs of the SRS have given appropriate appropriate explanations, which are why they disagree to introduce civil service in this way, to regulate how this is foreseen by this bill. The question arises, that Zivojin Misic, Stepa Stepanovic, Duke Radomir Putnik and Duke Petar Bojovic are alive – what they would say now in this situation. You should ask someone who's a soldier whether he wants to serve a civilian part or military. Just to remind you, in the Balkan wars, King Peter visited the front and encountered a fighter who was traveling in the column and held on to the horse by the tail. The king stopped and asked what was wrong with this soldier. The soldier replied – I lost sight of the explosion. The king said, "Well, soldier, what would you like now?" Your Majesty, I would now like to see me kill our enemies! We couldn't defend ourselves against three empires. The Serbian Army has shown through history and has proved that it has successfully defended itself against far larger enemies. So, the three empires of the Serb army have fallen to their knees! We are opposed to such bill of law, that someone chooses whether to serve the army or not. Anyone who calls for conscience and complaint of conscience, if he can't carry a rifle and a rifle, he can carry a rifle with ammunition. As a result, the SRS is against such laws and such a way of regulating military obligations for military officials. The defence of the state must be based, above all, on the physical direct abilities of members of the Serbian Army. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u27965	Two minutes and 25 seconds were used from the time of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? The 17th amendment was submitted by a group of 20 MPs of the Progress Serbia Group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 17th amendment was submitted by Miroslav Markicevic. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by the MP Miroslav Markicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u27966	On behalf of the New Serbia Parliamentary Group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 17 of this Civil Service Act, which reads: "In Article 17, the words 'Nine Months' are replaced by 'Twelve Months'. ''I gave one explanation, and since the New Serbia amendments have been rejected in a row, I would not report on this amendment either, because I would not want anyone to understand on these matters that I want to score political points, but I have come forward because of the arguments you have given when you reject this amendment. A similar amendment was given by a Serbian Progressive Party counterpart (who has not yet been on the agenda) which also increased the duration of civil service by nine months, because he asked not to include working days. I asked my amendment that civil service would take 12 months instead of nine months. Now listen carefully, especially the lawyers on your team, Mr. Minister. You said that if these days didn't count then the length of civil service would have to increase more than nine months, which is not the intensity of this law. Therefore, the legislator, the legislator, has the right to have political intensities, and that is nothing to dispute with me, I would not answer. But my amendment was rejected with an explanation: ''Amendment is not accepted for the reason it is in Article 20(2) and (3). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia has been governed by respect for the level of justice achieved. ''When you read Article 20, paragraphs 2 and 3. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia does not see what this argument really has to do with Article 20. That's one thing I want to tell you. The other thing is, from this explanation of yours, it turns out that my amendment doesn't comply with the Constitution. Then it seems that the Legislative Committee here has not done its job, in the light of the Legislative Committee it says that this amendment is legally possible. As soon as possible, it means it is in agreement with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Then how is it possible for you to give this explanation to me, I repeat, whether I like it or not, the legislator, the legislator, has the right to say – it is my political intensity, it is in agreement with the Constitution and nine months and twelve months is in agreement with the Constitution. So I know you're not going to answer anything, just to let you know how serious this argument is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u27967	It's been spent 35 seconds since the parliamentary group's time. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 18 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Krstin. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 18 of the amendment, MP Zlata Djeric submitted. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter, Zlata Djeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u27968	The esteemed chairman, Mr. Minister, in front of the New Serbia Parliamentary Group, I have tabled an amendment to Article 18, demanding that Article 2 be deleted. To remind myself, it refers to the possibility of extending the service of the civilian deadline, and that possibility is allowed up to 30 years of life. We asked to keep it within 27 years of life. The amendment was rejected with an explanation: ''Amendment is not accepted for the reason that the position of the 2nd member gives the possibility of an exception. Such a solution is necessary for recruits who have been evaluated as temporarily prevented from working until the 27th year of life and whose recruiting obligation has been extended to the 30th year of life. Until now, serving our army has always been limited to 27 years of life. To say the least, in a way, it's also in accordance with our military tradition. Any rule allowed by the exception ceases to be a rule and much more often it is an exception which is neither clear nor legally defined and then enters into the possibility of abuse of the law, in the possibility of resorting to the institutes in the law. It wouldn't be good for everyone to be equal before the law just to make some more equal. Any exception allows, or invalidates, the rule entirely.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u27969	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 19 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Maric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter Vesna Marić.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u27970	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the respected citizens of Serbia, I have submitted an amendment to Article 19. A bill on civil service, which requires that part of the law be deleted. You all know that this entire civil service bill is unacceptable to the SRS. It's unacceptable because it's undermining the state's defence system. We're not an empire, some great force that can afford such a luxury. If we have an army and some of its traces remain, all citizens must be equal. Civilian service and military service are not the same, nor are they similar. They can't change each other. According to the idea of the Serbian government, our country will send some children to serve with a rifle, while others will clean windows and wash diapers for alleged religious or moral reasons. So someone should be where they can get hurt, and others should enjoy and work as aunts. You could possibly replace military service with weapons with civil protection that lasts longer, so let those who are so disgusted by the army go digging channels, saving property and people's lives. That already makes sense. Since you introduced the so-called civil service, more and more young people have been declared members of religious sects, they are pronounced by their own safety. If our ancestors had done so throughout history, Serbia would no longer exist. Imagine what would happen if Duke Zivojin Misic instead of carrying a gun and an order of "St. Djordja", "St. Michael" scrubbed windows -- Serbia would not be there. Mr. Minister, unfortunately, he's not here, if that civil service is so good, then instead of Cobra, you're being guarded by people who wash diapers and act like they object. In the end, I remind you that most of the debtors, those who opted for civil service, are sitting at home and therefore I urge you to accept my amendment and break off with such a radical practice in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u27971	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 19 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Canak. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u27972	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 20. It is the most appropriate amendment to this article, and I was very uncomfortablely surprised by the decision of the Minister and the Government that the amendment would not accept me. The amendment reads, "Article 20 is deleted. ''I was even more surprised by the reason why the amendment was not accepted, ''Amendment is not accepted for the reasons set out in the explanation of the amendments under regular number 1.''' To see what it is, I opened an argument under regular number one, which says, "Amendman is not accepted for the reason he is a member of 45. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is governed by the right to object, and it is believed that both the member and this second part of the argument are covered, 'as Article 48 is paragraph 3. The defense law prescribed that the right to object would be heard... '" etc. I took the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, member of the 45th said, "A person is not required, contrary to his faith and beliefs, to fulfil a military or other obligation involving the use of weapons. A person who is called upon to object may be called upon to fulfil a military obligation without obligation to carry a weapon, in accordance with the law. ''So, in the Constitution as the highest legal act, the system of supremacy must be all the laws incorporated into this Constitution. Anything that comes up as a bill must be contained within the framework of the Constitution and we have found no civilian service of the military term. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the only thing you can do in the voting day is to adopt amendments to the SRS on all members of this bill, and they are all identical to my amendment, and then we'll put the Ministry in a position to think a little bit, that those who don't wear weapons because of the objection of conscience can work in barracks and other jobs. If he doesn't want a gun, I can shovel, broom, etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u27973	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 21 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sladjan Mijaljevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's Messenger Sladjan Mijaljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u27974	"Article 21 is deleted. '"That's my amendment. The SRS believes the Civil Service Bill will violate the defence system of the Republic of Serbia. For this reason, it is necessary to delete the members of the Bill in Glava – Civil Service. I think my colleagues, the MPs of the SRS, have made it very clear today why we should not serve the civilian service, or serve the army in this ugly way, but there will be no burning to underline another time or once again this attitude. So there are many questions that are being opened through this law, and very few answers. There's even confusion. The position of the SRS is to erase civil service from the law, as well as the objection of conscience, as well as the objection that because of some religious belief someone can refuse to serve the Army with weapons. To introduce you to a situation that is several thousand years old -- there is no religion in the world that has an objection to conscience that is not used with weapons. There are several small religions, such as giantism, which is one subtype of Hinduism and monastic levels, as in Buddhism really have a moment to rather suffer than defend themselves, but what rests on the foundations of Christian civilization is that absolutely no religion in Christianity has this moment of conscience. Therefore, the objection of conscience is only made up to spread defetism and to encourage those who should bear arms not to wear it. Of course, in principle, you also said that these people can be used for various activities. We consider this attitude to be demeaning and human, and any man, I underline, demeaning institutions and demeaning the state. Although you said people could be used, say, to dig trenches, we think that when a man isn't dressed then he's being abused, because while someone's been training in digging trenches, shelters, firearms fire jobs, some have been doing various jobs that don't have any contact points with military work. Imagine that the person who combed the wigs during the war determine to dig up 122 millimeter hoodies and invite someone to pull the loose on the hood, where it's about a few tons of ground and a couple of tens and a hundred pounds, without saying that this unfortunate man is, say, at the position of the hood battery when he fires a burst of fire, you literally bounce from the ground by 20 centimeters. Imagine an unfortunate man who worked in community service to find himself in such a place. Of course, there are also natural disasters, but since someone who has not learned to work on the team, who should listen, or execute command, especially in a large group, in a company or battalion, can do so. They, as untrained, are dangerous for themselves and others, and their use would be abuse, and their non-use is a very serious demeanor, not only unable to help themselves and others, but they have been deleted from the list of usable ones. According to us, the intensity of the law itself goes in the direction that young people, military bonds, are encouraged to serve civilians, which is beyond any common sense and against the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u27975	Thank you. Two minutes has been used since the parliamentary group's time. National MP Sladjana Myaljevic, I did not interrupt you to warn you that you cannot speak with disrespect about constitutional provisions, so I am doing so after you have finished your presentation. If you have any other amendments, I warn you that the objection is a constitutional provision and that you are obliged, as a MP, to speak respectfully of the Constitution, whether you personally like any of the constitutional provisions or not. I remind you, please, don't throw it out of place, it's a violation of Article 104, and it's the basis for a warning measure. I am obliged, on the basis of Article 27, to remind you that there is also a procedure for amending the Constitution, and if you want, you have, as every other citizen of Serbia, a space for amending the Constitution, until then the responsibility of the public word implies a careful choice of expressions and sentences that you use when you talk about the provisions of the Constitution and the rights that are written for all. Anyone else want a word? (Sladjan Mijaljević, from the place: Replica. ) You want the word, you can use the time of your parliamentary group, explaining the amendment. You do not have the right to a replica, I remind you to read the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the article. 27, 104, 106, and the course of the session. (Sladjan Mijaljević, from the place: Just please explain to me. I remind you now, People's Messenger, that you have no right to throw away. National MP Filip Stojanovic, and I remind you not to throw from the scene, I am obliged to, like you, protect the rights set out in the Constitution. The moment that for any reason, it happens to all of us, you distract it with your mind, Article 27 obliges me to remind you of that. You have no right to reply to the President's reaction. You can talk about the amendment if you want. You want to talk about the amendment next? No, I don't. ) The People’s Parliament of the Faith of Radeta wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u27976	Yes, after the injury of Article 27. Rules of procedure on your part the same way you did yesterday, but to be clear, I'm talking about this today and it would be really good to stop scaring the MPs. The court of record and the political party's position here can be presented by any MP. Article 103. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Mrs Comic, said in its 2nd position: "The MP cannot be called to criminal or other responsibility for the opinion expressed or voting in the performance of his parliamentary post." Please respect the Constitution, and if the public prosecutor, the one, you know, Radosavljevic who says Boris Tadic does not drink, but celebrates, and the ordinary man when he celebrates, drinks in the stadium, answers criminally and criminally, and Boris Tadic does not, for he, God, celebrates, celebrates the victory, and these probably celebrate the defeat when they drink, so he, the one who thinks so, let Mr Radosavljevic look at this Constitution before he acts according to what you are trying to do yesterday and today to impose on the MPs. Please respect the Constitution, we respect it, thank you for asking. Let the MPs do their job. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u27977	National MPs, there is no violation of Rule 27, and just as chairman, I serve as well as anyone else, to remind the MPs who interfere with the rules of the Rules of Procedure and the course of the session to remind them of that. So, you would have to know that I neither explained that a crime was committed, nor accused anyone of a crime, I apply the Rules of Procedure, and you would have to know the difference between criminal charges and the explanation that something is a crime and the application of the Rules of Procedure to which each chairman is obliged. With insight into the stenogram, MP Sladjan Mijaljević will see which and what words he has qualified one right written in the Constitution. That is not allowed by the rules and by the members of our Rules of Procedure, and I ask you not to abuse the right given to you by article 100, so that you may receive the word because the Rules of Procedure has been violated, because I think we share the view that he is not injured in this case. Anyone else want a word? National MP Aleksandar Martinovic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u27978	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think that, Mrs. Comic, you brutally violated Article 104. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia because you, as chairman, do not have the right to comment on the political position of any MP and cannot give a flat-rate assessment that Sladjan Mijaljević will look at the stenogram, so that he will then understand which members of the Rules of Procedure he has injured. If he has injured a member of the Rules of Procedure, you are obliged, as chairman, to say – Mr. Myaljević, you have injured that and that member of the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Mijaljević had no intention of disabling the Constitution. If you have noticed, Mrs Comic, the intensity of the SRS parliamentary group is to point to the fact that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has broken the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia through such a bill, which is Article 45, which does not speak at all about civil service, but talks about the rights of individual citizens of Serbia who have religious or other beliefs, to serve a military term without weapons, and serving a military deadline without weapons and civil service are two completely separate categories. The Civil Service of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia does not know. If you were to draw attention to the violation of the Constitution, you should have done so to the government of the Republic of Serbia and to the present representative of the government, Mr Sutanovac, and not to any SRS MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u27979	People's MP, there's no breach of article 104. Either you didn't sit in the O.R. while Mr. Mijaljević spoke or you didn't sit in the O.R. after he had finished the presentation, and I explained to him that I didn't want to interrupt him and now warn him, after he had finished, that he chose more carefully, and in accordance with Article 104, when it comes to law written in the Constitution concerning the objection of conscience. Your will to speak of civil service is your will, but it is not the subject of what I have said, nor is the subject of which MP Sladjan Mijaljević was warned. He was warned because he spoke of the law written in the Constitution with disdain. That's the Rules of Procedure, in Rule 104... (National Members of the SRS, from the post: What member? ) National MPs earn and violate Article 104. If you wish, as instructed by MP Aleksandar Martinovic, that I should make clear without explanation, that I am available to, including the measure of giving notice for the rejection and violation of Article 104, which I am sure Mr Markovic knows is written in the Rules of Procedure. Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 21 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Canak. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 22 of the amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Ljubenović. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Tomislav Ljubenović.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u27980	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am submitting before the SRS an amendment to the Civil Service Act proposal to delete the proposed article 22. The SRS believes that the Civil Service Law proposal will violate the defence system of the Republic of Serbia, that it is unnecessary and harmful, that this law implements the Americanisation of the Serbian Army through NGOs, which deal with the right to object and the civil service that has entered all the pores of the service, affecting their control. By adopting this law, civil service of the military period leads to absurdities in the country's security system because the training of recruits in civil service is not adequate in the country's defence system and does not contribute to any improvement in the more efficient and secure functioning of the military. Serbia's army has come into a situation that justifiably fears arises among citizens, on its willingness to defend our country and to respond in new conditions to forms of security threats. One country is as safe as it is able to defend its integrity either by diplomacy or by armed force. The primary task is for the army to be effective, to increase quantity to quality, to respond to modern security risks, to define the situation of the Serbian Army on the basis of the estimated security challenges of risk and threats Serbia can face. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u27981	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 22 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Batić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 23 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marko Milenković. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Marko Milenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u27982	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you know the position of the SRS on the harmfulness of the Civil Service Bill. The systematic weakness of Serbia's defence power and the disintegration of the military began after some automation and continuity, early retirement and demobilization of the most capable management personnel, was continued by disbanding operational structures, destroying proper combat technique and bringing the army to the brink of poverty, but also by bringing unprofessional people to the leadership post at the Ministry of Defence and the General Staff of the Serbian Army. Of course, these people should only have one qualification, which is to blindly implement a policy dictated by the world's power centers, above all, the US and NATO pacts. At the request of his American friends, Boris Tadic has destroyed 1,200 "Strele-m" systems in time, so today our army on helicopters, low-flying planes, spy and other aircraft can only act with basic infantry weapons, as was the case in World War I. Today, the systems for facts at the mid-level "Neva Kub" and "Dina", are the same systems that have brought down criminal and aggressive NATO planes, due to lack of spare parts almost out of use. By doing so, of course, the sale of our army isn't over. To those who have killed our civilians, destroyed housing, hospitals, maternity homes, bridges, today our power in depriving the sale of wisdom and the combat capacity of our people to maximum discipline and other combat activities, as a unique product of our knowledge for mating with the most modern fighting assets of the West. Finally, of course this amendment should be adopted and, of course, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the draft civil service law is damaging.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u27983	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 23 of the amendment was submitted by a group of 20 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" Group. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Bozidar Delic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u27984	Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the essence of this amendment was that those who serve civil servants, who also wanted to stop civil service and to continue teaching in the Serbian Army, whether as soldiers with weapons or without weapons, would be cut short by a three-month period of time in a month. If it is said that, at the earliest of 15 days, they can make such a wish, or the need to make such a request, we felt that it was sufficient for them to do so at the latest when they spent a month in civilian service. Because it's said here that it's for practical reasons, and we also say that our amendment has been submitted for practical reasons. As the explanation puts it, this is a 90-day border case, and if we add more time to that, for which the territorial authority needs to decide to end civil service, it's already more than three months. If the territorial authority is to carry out certain activities that are also proposed in Article 43, medical examinations, etc., and it is required for the civilian to direct it within the next deadline, we believe that there is far more time if he does so if he is 30 days in the military than if he is 90 days in civil service. It's okay, then there's another 4.5 months for training. Since two days spent in civil service count as one in the military, yet for 3 months, he spends as his generation is at that regular military service. There is little time to carry out all these activities that need to be carried out by territorial authorities, to meet this condition, to instruct him on regular military training with other recruits serving military time with arms or without weapons within the next deadline.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u27985	It's been used 30 seconds since the parliamentary group's time. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 23rd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Cedomir Jovanovic, Zoran Ostojić, Vesna Pesic, Nebojsa Arangelović and Kenan Hajdarevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has an MP, Zoran Ostojić.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u27986	The essence of our amendment is double, to equalize some proportion that already exists in the service of civil service and military service, which is about one-and-a-half, and to give this member who talks about a person who changed his mind within three months and wants to be directed to military service with or without arms in the Serbian Army, therefore, to give the person the opportunity to serve the military term. The recommendation of the Council of Europe is that any calculation of civil service over one and a half days in relation to the service in the military is already a punishment. And here it is predicted that since the person has changed his mind and wants to go to serve the Army, that it counts for two days of civil service in one day of the military, it is completely incomprehensible to me why the military deadline is served for 6 months, civil service 9 months, that is, according to the Council of Europe recommendations, but the explanation says that the day counts eight hours for the one serving in civil service, and the soldier has 16 hours, because in his spare time he has to fulfill the wishes of the elders. I don't think the argument is in place, as is the previous explanation in Article 1, Mr. Secretary, that the Constitution is binding, is not in place. After all, in the government's explanation, it doesn't say it's against the constitution. Because if it were against the law, it wouldn't be just civil service. I guess for civil service, which lasts nine months, working day is eight hours, as it is for military service, let's take 16 hours – why didn't you count sleep, then it could be one to three? So I think there's either some kind of mistake or someone wants to punish their faces. A person who has declared a complaint of conscience and has changed his mind within three months and has, for example, two months worked in civil service and wants to be a soldier, now counts only a month of military service. I really don't understand it and it doesn't comply with the Council of Europe's recommendations. When some colleagues already use the opportunity to address children, I can also tell these same children that I hope that there will never be cannon meat again to the wrong policies and that the application of this law will only last until the full professionalisation of the Army, and I hope, Ministers, that it will be within two years. I hope that never again this country's safety depends on the cannon meat of the poor, but on the system of collective security. There's only one in front of us right now, and that's membership in the North Atlantic organization.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u27987	One minute and 15 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 24 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vlad Milojkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 24 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Nenad Canak. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 25 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 25th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Cedomir Jovanovic, Zoran Ostojic, Vesna Pesic, Nebojsa Rangelovic and Kenan Hajdarevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Kenan Hajdarevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u27988	The President-in-Office, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Article 25. The bill speaks of the way civil service is interrupted, and the LDP here has given an amendment to Article 25's position. According to us, this position, which says that the person in item 1-1, 3), 4) and 5 of this article, is referred to serving a military term without a weapon in the unit of the Serbian Army. We think this attitude is unacceptable for two reasons. The first reason, reading this member, and especially this attitude, is because it is as if serving a military term in the military of the Republic of Serbia is a punishment, or those who commit a violation in civil service are punished by continuing to serve the military term in the Republic of Serbia without weapons. That's one argument. The second argument, why this position should be deleted, is that the right to object to a conscience can also apply to serving a civilian deadline in any unit of the civilian army. We believe that, instead of this attitude, the criminal provisions provided for in Chapter VII of the proposal of this law can be applied quite correctly.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u27989	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 26 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ognjen Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 26th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Cedomir Jovanovic, Zoran Ostojic, Vesna Pesic, Nebojsa Rangelovic and Kenan Hajdarevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Kenan Hajdarevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u27990	Article 26. The bill discusses how civil service is interrupted when it comes to scientific worker, top athlete, member of the Republika Srpska team and artist. We have here submitted an amendment to Article 26(2). The bill, where we say that after the word "Defence Ministry", words are added – "which is required to decide on the application within eight days". We absolutely understand the answer that you have provided here, where it is said that this amendment is not accepted because they are a provision of Article 208. The general administrative procedure law provides for the time limits within which the Authority is required to comply with the application. However, the Law on Administrative Procedure, it seems to us, should specialize with an exact time limit of eight days, because if it responds to a request, any athlete, any artist, after 15-20 days, there are deadlines when this artist, or athlete, has to get an end to civil service of the military deadline. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u27991	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 27th amendment was submitted by MP Goran Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Goran Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u27992	Dear fellow MPs, the SRS Parliamentary Group has submitted a number of amendments to the Civil Service Law proposal and all the amendments submitted treat the most of the same problem, trying to show the general public all the senselessness of adopting such a law, which, in the name of some complaint of conscience, directly demeans all the traditions of the famous Serbian Army, undermines the defence power of the Republic of Serbia, and at the same time demeans the Serbian youth in such a way that, instead of disturbing one call for an honorable military call, it is indirectly deterred from it and instead sends it to various homes and institutions to guard one's grandparents. It is certainly not in the spirit of the famous Serbian tradition, and all of this is explained by the proposings by some need for these institutions to employ a number of civilian persons. I would ask one logical question: if these institutions need to employ certain persons, why not take them from the unemployment bureau because unfortunately there are more Serbian youth on the bureaus today than ever. In the absence of a real employment strategy, it is hard for this youth to have something good and to hope for. In particular, my amendment refers to Article 27 relating to the postponement and termination of civil service under certain circumstances, such as temporary inability to work, death or serious illness of a family member, an elemental accident or a decision by the civilian himself to continue military service with or without weapons. There's all the illogicality of this amendment. Article 21 The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia says they are all equal and equal before the law. I'd ask: what if an inverted process happens if someone who serves a military deadline with a weapon suddenly develops a conscience and wants to move on to civil service, and worse, hypothetically, that it doesn't, God forbid, happen at a time of direct war danger? What if most soldiers decided to move to civil service? You can conclude for yourself that in a direct way this would endanger the security of the country and the military as a whole. Finally, I would say that, in addition to this finding of mine, the fact that this whole bill is given on page 22, and the explanation of the motionor on even page 13. It seems more to me that the motionary cares more about convincing the public that the law needs to be passed than he cares about the content and essence of the law itself.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u27993	One minute has been used since the parliamentary group's time. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 28th of the amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Mladenovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 29 of the amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's Messenger Mirko Munjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u27994	Mr. Minister, we made sure this morning that silence doesn't always have to mean approval. You silently, I think, have not accepted my amendment that I asked farmers to postpone their military exercise in certain justified reasons. I will say this to each other, therefore, and to those on the left and on the right, that you have not accepted it, and when you come down, explain to them why you did not. I'd like to talk about this now. Article 29, whose erasure I asked for, speaks of where civil service is being carried out and how those persons in civil service can be transferred to another organization, therefore, from kindergarten to kindergarten, from kindergartens to cafes, etc. We are in principle against civil service. As soon as we're against civil service, it's normal and logical that we're against moving the one who serves from one institution to another. We are for every young man to be adequately trained and trained to defend his country, not for aggression, but for defense. In order to be adequately trained to defend their country, they must undergo certain military training. It's a long way from that, Mr. Minister, that someone likes war. We are all aware of the fact that war is the worst thing that can happen to one country and its citizens. As it is said, no one is stupid enough to wish for war, not peace, because in peace the sons bury the father, and in war, the fathers' sons, unfortunately. That's the ugliest thing. But those who, for the sake of the country's defence and security, know that much of their gross national income is set aside for training their young people, but they are still training their people to defend the country, and we will not, or you, through this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u27995	Thirty seconds of time used by the parliamentary group. The word is made by Minister Dragan Sutanovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u27996	Dear Mr. Munjic, for the left and right of Morava, Article 52 says this: the exercise can also be postponed for registered farmers and other persons who perform their own agricultural activity, if there is no other member in their household capable of attracting. So it's not true that farmers don't. However, you haven't read all of this, and please, when you leave where you came from to apologize to your colleagues who have been led astray.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u27997	Right on the line, MP Mirko Munjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u27998	Mr. Minister, I read this amazingly. However, what you said in the first part is true. However, you have not read whether or not you have forgotten to read the second part, which is – that those who do not do so, or that farmers in the administrative dispute can do so, Mr. Minister, the farmer to exercise his right in the administrative dispute. I said this morning, "Well, why didn't you prescribe it before the Constitutional Court and not in a administrative dispute?" That's the point, or somewhere in Strasbourg. (Dear Shutanovac, from the place: where does it say? )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u27999	National MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Injury of the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u28000	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, members of 106 and Article 113 have been violated. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Therefore, Article 106 states that the notice is made to the MP, among other things, if the speaker interrupts the presentation or throws, or interferes with the speaker, or otherwise threatens the freedom of speech, and Article 113 states that the provisions of this Rules of Procedure apply to all other participants in the session, in addition to the MPs, as well as to the meetings of the committees and other working bodies of the National Assembly. So, Mrs. Komic, there is almost no MP of the SRS who throws him in various ways, either ridicules or makes fun of the face, or chats with you, or with his colleagues, or invites us to even communicate informally with him. So, if Mr. Minister believes that any position by any member of the SRS or any other member of the People's Parliament is not in line with his political commitment, he should answer the word and then communicate with us in a formal manner, to hear it. In a sad way, this really endangers the dignity of the National Assembly. It's possible that Mr. Minister is too smart, so we don't understand what he's really saying to us by this bill, but I urge him to tell us his mind in an official way, to answer the word, to turn on the microphone, so that we can hear what is epochal in this bill, which is whole, starting to end, opposite to Article 45. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Please, Mrs. Comić, if you could transfer Sladjana Myaljević to an infringement of the Rules of Procedure that does not exist, you would draw attention to Mr. Sutanovac to behave. So we're not his rapists here, we're not in charge of making him coffee at the Ministry. We are the People's MPs, and I ask you to protect both the institution and the function of the MP. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u28001	People's MP, there's no breach of Article 104, and there's no breach of Article 113. The dialogue that took place between MP Mirko Munjic and Minister Dragan Sutanovac was about whether or not the law states that agricultural producers in registered agricultural households who make their own law were allowed not to go to military exercises, Colloquially, to shorten a member. National MP Mirko Munjic claimed not to write it. Minister Dragan Sutanovac read it and said it was written. National MP Mirko Munjic received the right to replication and did not read where he said he was right. The minister did ask – where does it say and suppose they both read and spoke in good faith and hope. Therefore, MP Mirko Munjic will have an additional minute if he can read from the Bill of Ministers where it says that farmers from registered agricultural households who are the only perpetrators do not have the rights given to others, and as far as I repeat, I do not remember the full member of the law, I apologize when they participate in the military exercise. Does MP Mirko Munjic want to read that farmers do not have the right for which the minister, in the full provision of the members of the law, has determined by reading that they have the right. You don't want a word? You want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u28002	Mrs. Komic, this reminds us of everything but the National Assembly. We're not in court, we're not in school to act like this, so you can tell me if I want to read it, whether I don't want to read it, whether I have a minute or not. Where does it say I have a minute for that? And you simply explain what I said. I don't know what kind of leadership this is, and I'm asking you, please, to conduct this congregation with dignity, what it looks like, and what it says in the Rules of Procedure. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u28003	National MPs, the leadership of the Assembly is aimed at informing the public. It is my duty for you to have a chance to inform the public that you are right to read what you have determined and what the minister has challenged. Anyone else want a word by amendment to Article 29? No, I don't. ) On Article 40 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan M. Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has, just once press, a short name has appeared to you, MP Milan Nikolic. Here you go. The word is made by MP Milan Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u28004	Dear People's MPs, on behalf of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 30 in order to delete it. Article 30 proposes a way of determining organisations or institutions in which civil service will be carried out. The government has not accepted the amendment for the reason why the Constitution has established the right to object, but the civil service of the military deadline will also be governed by a special law. The SRS, you saw, is against the civil service of the military deadline and believes that the objection of conscience can be effectively carried out within the barracks. Civilian military service was introduced by Boris Tadic when he served as defence minister. This was done by the reputation of the most economically powerful countries in the West. It was considered a democracy, although it has nothing to do with democracy. The introduction of a civil service of the military deadline began with drastic destruction and destruction of the Serbian Army. The destruction was continued by General Ponos, who, although still being removed, still receives the salary of the Chief of Staff, and lives in the state residence, i.e. in the villa from which Ojdanic was expelled. Civilian military service doesn't make sense, because they don't learn anything from military theory and about defense of the country. Serbia is a country that lies on the bones of our ancestors who have given their lives in wars for the freedom and dignity of their people. It was all designed and done to destroy the army of Serbia and the patriotic being, military pride and dignity of the Serb people. Serving the military term in Serbia has always been a tradition, a patriotic act, pride, a great test of maturity and a huge preparation for a longer life. When Serbian youths do not go to regular military service, it will be the end of the Serbian Army. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u28005	Anyone else want a word? If not, the MP Gordana Paunovic-Milosavljevic submitted to the 31st amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Gordana Paunović-Milosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u28006	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of Serbia, on behalf of the SRS Parliamentary Group, I have tabled an amendment to the draft civil service law. The amendment concerns Article 31, which speaks of the rights and obligations of a civil service person. The amendment reads: “Article 31 is deleted. “ Like all our amendments, this one is not accepted. The SRS considers that the draft civil service law is pointless and should be deleted, so that the amendment is a logical follow-up to the previously submitted amendments of the SRS. This material should be regulated in other laws that treat military, material and labour obligations. We believe that civil service has been introduced under the auspices of the democracy of society and the reform of the armed forces, with the aim of weakening Serbia's military and violating our country's defence power. In the long tradition of the Serbian people, going to the military is a test of health, maturity, responsibility, personal and national identity. If more young people choose brooms and shovels instead of uniforms, I don't mean anything in a pessimistic sense, in the streets and schools of Serbia there would be much less violence, drug abuse, alcoholism, crime, and more order, discipline, respect, accountability and a healthy lifestyle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u28007	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 31 of the amendment was submitted by MP Konstantin Arsenović. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Konstantin Arsenović.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u28008	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, according to my record, this amendment has been accepted by the government, but I want to use this time to react to the part of yesterday's discussion when we discussed the problems of the homeless. I have to tell you that my efforts to solve the problems of members of the Army, former and present, make me feel like a moral obligation, have nothing to do with party belongings, and I would do that if I were a member of your party. So, your remarks at yesterday's session, when we discussed this problem, I must say, when you get up, it's not clear here, I'd ask you to sit down when you're talking to us so we can hear you better and understand you. Here's what you said - from your party is the vice president of the Serbian government. The best thing to do is talk to him, give him a solution, and let's see how that can be solved. I'm convinced you'd know that, to advise yourself on how to handle it, because in these 10, 15 or 18 years since they started coming here, no one's been smart enough, apparently, to solve it. Mr. Minister, I don't share you, Government, by any party membership, I see you as one comprehensive organism and I don't care at this time who is personally vice president or minister. But I think it's your duty and duty, because if I were a minister, and I wasn't, believe me, I'd either handle it or I wouldn't be a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u28009	People's MP, it is our duty to speak on the subject of the agenda. If there is a connection to the discussion of the previous day or in the morning with your amendment, then it is understood that you have the right to mean that kind of discussion, but it must have some connection in the discussion, otherwise I am forced to warn you that we are sticking to the Rules of Procedure. National MP Dragan Shormaz wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure and he gets his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u28010	You are something now, like, said, but I really think you've broken Article 27. Rules of Procedure and how to run it. First, Mr. Arsenovic took us two minutes from those ten hours. The last law we are going to discuss is very important and will likely be spent for 10 hours, and we are full of stories about the control of the military security agency, and for the amendment that has been accepted, it tells and defends their Krkobiæ. And now I have to defend the minister from the DS and say -- there is no homeless person and you are wrong, and 25m euros are spent annually on solving these issues, and no one is going to go to Negotin and Zajecar to live there, and when it comes to the agenda to consider Serbia's regional development, you will talk about an empty space in eastern Serbia, about Negotin, about Zajecar, about pensioners' rights. Which pensioner did you protect?- I'm sorry. Do you know how much less the purchasing power of a pensioner is compared to last year without talking about last year? Now you're giving someone a lecture and you're taking away time that's valuable, because we want to talk about other very important things, and it's going to be 10 hours for these pointless regulations of the Rules of Procedure. And you allowed it, Mrs. Comic. First of all, the man was talking about things that weren't right. Secondly, he spoke of an amendment that was accepted and the word one did not say about the amendment. (Zoran Krasic, from the place: give yourself a warning! )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u28011	The People's Messenger, the suggestion of Parliamentarian Zoran Krasic, to give myself a warning, I would, if there were a reason. There isn't! I can interrupt the MP, because only the chairman has the right and listen carefully, because what I have warned MP Konstantin Arsenovic, after having finished his presentation in his two minutes, did not bring into contact some part of the discussion yesterday and his amendment, which the government had accepted, but did not accept the committees in charge, so that he must vote on it, so that he has the right to his two minutes. If you insist on interrupting MPs too quickly, I do not think that such application of the Rules of Procedure would be good and that MPs need different times to connect different topics, and that they are still talking about the agenda and that is why two minutes the MP has used it. Time to 10 hours – there are 274 minutes left, it is 137 amendments at this time available within business time, so that MP Arsenović and everyone else who wants to explain it will explain it in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, of course, and my careful listening. National MP Zoran Ostojic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u28012	You say there's no reason to give yourself a warning, to help you. Article 103 was just violated. I didn't react, but now I have to. I don't know what it's all about, but we're wasting our time. There won't be any amendments, let's just say, to these military secret services for such a waste of time. A colleague, Munjic, was just talking about peasants who can't delay the military exercise, was replicated by the minister. We've been listening to their debate for 15 minutes, but it has nothing to do with the law that's on the agenda, it's the law that passed. It was a law that was over. It's controversy, but objectively you had to notice that they're talking and arguing about a law that's not currently on the agenda. We're discussing civil service, not the previous law.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u28013	There were no violations of the Rules of Procedure in the previous case, for two reasons. First, the time available for replicators does not enter at 10 o'clock for the Rules of Procedure to discuss in particular, and I made it clear that the MP gets one more time for replication and that he can spend a minute on reading, so that it would be absolutely clear what kind of provision is being made. I repeat, the strict application of the Members of the Rules of Procedure relating to the obligation of the Members of Parliament to speak on the agenda would mean a debate without any liveliness, and for that, you will then have to give to another chairman, I think that MPs have rights both in their own style and in their own style to connect things and to prove that they are in the subject of the agenda, but in their own own way within the rights that the Rules of Procedure allow them to do. The debate between Minister and MP Mirko Munjic was within the Rules of Procedure and will be allowed to anyone who believes that the minister has not given a good enough answer to what he considers to be a question, a problem or a lack in law. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 31 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Antic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Antic. Excuse me, MP, please sign in. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u28014	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in this Civil Service Act, we have the fact that we have a complete record, say, of a regular, extraordinary, rewarding absence, possibly of disciplinary sanctions, of a responsible person in an institution and of an institution where a soldier serves his own military time. It seems to me that such a solution in the law is very bad and that since we have already organized territorial authorities at the level of one, two or three municipalities, everything depends on the number of recruits we have, even if those jobs were to be done by those authorities. So the territorial authority could take care of whether the soldiers who serve the military deadlines by law exercise their rights in the right way and whether they have abuses by institutions and institutions. We have many examples from some practice so far, where soldiers at civil service came in the morning, checked in and went home, responsible persons doing very little surveillance, in the law itself, surveillance when it comes to performing a civil military deadline is very weakly defined. I think we're going to have a lot of abuse on the ground, because a lot of these recruits are actually from that environment, from that municipality and the directors of those institutions and institutions that are most often responsible don't want to go in and resent recruits, so this solution, this institution that's given in law, is going to allow a number of abuses and belittle in some way civil service of the military deadline. I think it's a major failure in the law and you should have more understanding of this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u28015	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 32nd Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by the international MPs Sreto Perić and Zoran Antić. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u28016	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the syntagma of "the village burns and the grandmother combs" was absolutely applied in this home. The minister is present here all the time and that's something that's okay, but it's a lot of informal communication with MPs, a lot of gesticulation, which isn't appropriate and it's not good. We were expecting here today, and otherwise when it comes to the Law of the Army and the Law of Defence, that a group of soldiers sitting on the balcony of this high house at the service of a military service with a weapon. I suppose colleagues to Konstantin Arsenovic would also play their heart out, as would many of us who served military time with weapons. However, counterpart Ostojić, it is not by chance that there are some stories here that do not have much to do with these laws. In order to pass something easy and simple, but we remember yesterday's story – Grandpa participated in the Cerska Battle, showed heroism, didn't go there and invited someone from the white world to settle for it, but he defended his homeland, and the grandchild is sitting here today, or in continuity for a certain time, and he doesn't care what goes through this law. In front of the SRS, we had no alternative but to submit an amendment to Article 32 of this Civil Service Act. See what it says – a person in civil service during the service can be granted a trip abroad during a regular or extraordinary leave, so it stands still who approves it. Minister, you don't have to approve of going abroad at all. The Charic Motel in Ibarska Master's Office is much closer than any other abroad. Anything you need to do or end up there you can do here. Remember, you have friends who are 2001. The years, or a little later, went there to take over very important military documents, so now you can do it here, not to send out those who allegedly serve military time in civilians so that even these armies that have now kind of beat themselves up. You said, among other things, that there was an increase in the number of persons who wanted to serve military time with weapons. It did not increase because of you as military minister, but, unfortunately, it increased to learn how threatened this country is, as well as the possibility and love to defend its country. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u28017	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 33 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dušanka Plecevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Dušanka Plečević.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u28018	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I propose that Amendment 33 be deleted. This article discusses the possibility that a person referred to civil service in an institution may submit a written objection to the First-degree, or Second-degree Commission if he is treated in an unworthy, inhumane and humiliating manner. The Commission is obliged to take appropriate measures. I ask, what and what measures? In the proposed law, it was not defined. What kind of authority can a commission have on institutions such as health homes, hospitals, kindergartens, municipal enterprises, the Red Cross and the like? Will these commissions take down the directors of the facility if they're harassed by soldiers? Of course not, because they don't have any authority over those facilities. In addition, serving a military term, a taxpayer in civil institutions has no purpose whatsoever, nor has some results been achieved so far except that it is a source of abuse both by soldiers and by these institutions and businesses. Neither are soldiers, men, nor is civil protection training for 14 days something that benefits them and others. With what right do they expect someone else to defend them and their families in case of need? I think it's better to free these young men from military obligations if there's no way they're already serving military time in barracks. Earlier, the military served and was able to serve without the obligation to carry arms. So they had a sense of belonging to the military during military service. What are soldiers in civilian institutions? How do they feel? The descendants of our famous heroes go to military service in the barracks and have no objection to their conscience, as my great-grandfather, the Thessaloniki fighter, on whose monument I will write – 'He fought for Serbia's freedom in two Balkan and First World War and had no objection to conscience! '" [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u28019	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Cedomir Jovanovic, Zoran Ostojić, Vesna Pesic, Nebojsa Rangelovic and Kenan Hajdarevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Kenan Hajdarevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u28020	Ladies and gentlemen, Your Honor, Mr. Minister, as you have heard, Article 33. The bill speaks of the possibility of a person serving a civilian military service to make a written complaint to the First-degree and Second-degree Commission if he is treated in an unworthy and inhumane manner. The LDP has submitted an amendment relating to position 6 in this Article 33. Otherwise, the 6th position reads: "The second-degree commission's decision is finally by administrative procedure. ''We have suggested that this attitude be changed and that it should be ''against the resolution of the Second-degree Commission can be triggered by an administrative dispute. ''The explanation for this proposal for our amendment can be found in some ways related to Article 16 which discusses a decision on a request for civil service, where paragraph 5 is said: 'Agreeds against the solution set out in Article 3 of this article may be initiated by an administrative dispute. "And attitude four says, "The Second-degree Commission's decision is finally in the administrative procedure. 'According to the fact that what it says in article 33, it is absolutely possible to reflect from Article 16. Also, I would like to say that with some of the shortcomings that my colleagues and I have discussed about the bill, this bill represents a qualitative shift in relation to the existing situation for two, at least, reasons. First, because it replaces the regulation that was in force during the previous period, and this bill defines many of the shortcomings observed in the previous period when civil service of the military is being discussed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u28021	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 34 of the amendment was submitted by Vitomir Plužarevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Vitomir Plužarevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u28022	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have submitted an amendment to article 34 and we suggest that this article be deleted. Chapter I and civil service obligations should be deleted, as the complete civil service bill is harmful. This matter should be regulated by other laws that treat military, material and labour obligations. This law directly undermines Serbia's security struggle. You have introduced this civil service law into Serbia because of these white world desires, we were once a world and military-recognized force, and then we were represented by everyone in the environment and beyond. Today we devastated Serbia's army, the military's reputation fell to the lowest branches. We are working on this law of self-destruction as if the sects had made up this law for us. The tradition of our people was that the soldier was a figure of strength, youth, masculinity, a soldier serving a military term was a man, or he would be capable of the state and his family. With this law, you're actually destroying both tradition and state and family. Imagine that in this law you have foreseen, the next member or principles, and that is, that young men who serve the civilian deadline in the morning are at work at some firm or institution, and that after noon they exercise intensive military training and stay in a place called. Would it then be so many of these young people who want to serve civil service? You wouldn't! I know how these young men serve that civilian army. That time has been spent without a goal, or goal is that when they finish that service, they are not for any military or similar readiness, for example, God forbid they have to defend their country tomorrow. This law should be withdrawn from the procedure. That would be the best solution for the current government and for you, Mr. Minister. I know you'll never do that, because what your bosses would tell you at the time that they're sitting in all the military cabinets doing for a variety of intelligence services. The person addressed to the civil service during the civil service is entitled to, and is now listed here, on the salary. Why did you foresee comparing those who are on civil service and those who serve the regular army to have the same relationships in this material sense? Costs of transport and that's not right. Then, for the cost of food, you predict here Article 3 that a soldier who serves a civilian somewhere in an institution can be fed there in the cafeteria, etc. And you know for yourself what state today's businesses and institutions are in and that they're looking for a piece of bread, or they're looking for people to get at least for salt. As far as security is concerned, this is a matter of safety and health. Health is fine, but safety means those who serve the civil service alone can't be safe. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u28023	A minute has been used since the parliamentary group's time. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 34 of the amendment was submitted by MP Konstantin Arsenović. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u28024	The government has accepted this amendment, and therefore this time, and since the next three amendments, I'm giving it to the DSS.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u28025	Anyone else want a word? If not, the People's MP, Gordana Pop-Lazic, submitted to Article 35 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word has a folk letter from Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u28026	Mr. Minister, on behalf of the SRS Parliamentary Group, I will invite you to withdraw this law from the procedure, there is still time and you know that this possibility is at your disposal. I ask you a question, what kind of law is this if the title of the law is a bill of civil service. Where? Of what? Where is the Army mentioned here? How do we even know what this is about? If you wanted to promote civilian military service, you could have done so in this previous law and you could have packed it in four parameters. You didn't need this 86 law or how many members there are already. However, there was to be some illusion that those who serve the civilian military should either have the same obligations, or are in line with those who narrow down the army under arms. I'm sorry, but they're not. I must indeed tell these young people that your only task, as well as the task of Boris Tadic, is to drag the country into NATO, which is an impossible mission, the mood in Serbia is anti-nautical and it will only increase in that sense. I'm sorry that the gentleman in uniform is laughing, because he's obviously in NATO's role as well as you. I really don't think it's right to be ridiculed here by someone from your escort or one of your associates, because I speak for the people. You are an ordinary Serbian government official at the head of one administration, and you should all treat us with due respect, because we are the ones chosen by the people to give you what they think. I'm not just saying this for myself, but for those of you who brought me here and this place. You were brought here by your political party or by the assembly majority, which you created anyway. You've been brought around or forced by someone from the NATO Pact who can't forget 1999. And our people can't forget in 1999 because they were killed by NATO bombs, but NATO can't forget then our Army of Yugoslavia, because it wasn't allowed for land troops to enter our country's territory, because we did have an army that had its basic function - to sort of deter other military forces from aggression, as far as I know in the Army, and I had pre-war training back in 1974, it's a strategy and it's one of the roles of the Army. That role is clearly no longer needed by our army, and that's why everything is done this far and wide. A system of values has been disrupted, unfortunately, mothers are unable to force their sons to be late vacuum cleaners and to help their mothers, but that's why they go and wash the windows somewhere else and the Kobajagi serve the Army. I tell them, kids, that's not what you need to learn and what you need to do, you're wasting your time here, not where you should take the gun. There you will learn or socialize, so the Army will fix what it used to be, what the family missed or the school missed, there you will learn what authority is so that you will not be anarchists tomorrow and that you do not strive for anarchic society. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u28027	The minutes and 55 seconds have been spent since the parliamentary group's time. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 36 of the amendment, in the same text, MPs Zoran Popovic and together, MPs Cedomir Jovanovic, Zoran Ostojić, Vesna Pesic, Nebojsa Rangelović and Kenan Hajdarevic submitted. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Zoran Popovic, followed by MP Zoran Ostojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u28028	I have submitted an amendment to Article 36 before the SRS Parliamentary Group. A draft civil service law, by proposing that Article 36 be deleted. Our party's position is well known when it comes to civilian service of the military. As a Serbian radical and captain of artillery and missile units, the PSC is a disgrace to the municipality of Ljig, from which I come, civilian soldiers wash carpets in the Red Cross and serve a military deadline. As for the concrete amendment, Article 36, Minister Sutanovac suggests that persons in civil service be banned from organising and participating in the strike during civil service. It is further proposed that all information on an organisation or an institution, other than the information available to the public, is considered to be a business or official secret. With regard to this proposed solution, we in the SRS find it inadmissible, because civil service law cannot regulate matter access to information of public importance, because this matter is governed by a special law that was passed in this assembly in late 2004. Therefore, we believe that it cannot be de facto prescribed that something is an official secret when it comes to institutions and organisations that are in the nature of the business of public authority holders and are treated as public authorities. In doing so, if this article was adopted and entered into force, it would be pointless, since its matter is decorated with a special lex special. The final position of Article 36 provides that during the course of civil service, persons in civil service are at rest of the rights and obligations of employment and that they cannot be employed and do your work in accordance with the law. This is where Minister Sutanovac probably thinks of a working relationship in the state body, because the private employer's interest is not to keep a soldier's job and thus endanger his position on the market, while the same soldier spends military days with an apron or a shovel in a state organ. How will the competent inspections control you, whether someone is working black after working hours in civil service, whether they will go from soldier to soldier, from house to house. I suggest you reconsider and adopt this amendment. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u28029	The word has the People's MP Zoran Ostojić.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u28030	Since some colleagues are constantly starting to express their words – our party's position on this law is well known, too, the LDP's position on this law is well known. We support civil service and that is a constitutional category. In this article, we specifically believe, Mr. Minister, if people who serve civil service are banned from being forced to strike, they are equalized with professional members. We don't think that's right, among other things, because others will see them as strikebrehers, and in the end, it's possible in some assumed situation to use people who serve civilian strike enforcement in public enterprises, which we don't think is appropriate. On the other hand, I, Madam President, will spend our time now. We have another amendment, and I won't answer it. I'm glad those with whom you wrote the Constitution together now accuse you of breaking the Constitution, voting, writing, adoption and so forth, and in some ways it turns out that you are now between the two fires. But it's not the same. You brought together such a constitution. Among other things, when we talk about tradition, the right to object is recognised by Serbia-Montenegro's Constitutional Charter. When someone here is talking about the famous tradition of the Serb army, perhaps a famous tradition of the Montenegrin army might be remembered. Since there is no modernist of the Serbian Army from the beginning of the century, only the contemporary JNA, and I assume that the famous military tradition is being called to that time, including gentlemen from the ruling majority, who may, by age, be close to the Serbian Army, but still are not. I can only say that I understand and that LDP absolutely understands people who didn't want to participate in pointless wars and that this calling for tradition is a little sad. I remember Bora Jovic's book when he convinced one conversation and General Adzic's reference. I guess those who talk so much about the famous Serbian military tradition think of both that time and those wars that people rightly ran from. So, according to Adzic Kadjevic, Milosevic, Jovic, at one point on Vukovar, and I quote Adzic: "A real disaster on Vukovar. The roller coasters completely escaped. It's about orthodox Serbian nationalists. "That's what Adzic said. That's probably true. It just means what kind of war it was when Serbian nationalists fled such a war. So let's make it possible for people who don't want to be soldiers not to be soldiers. Let's make it possible for people who want to be soldiers, to be their profession, their profession, and to do it for their wages. I hope that this Serbia will go in that direction and that these laws will indeed be a thing of the past. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u28031	Anyone else want a word? Ambassador Dobrislav Prelic submitted to Article 37 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Dobrislav Prelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u28032	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, the intention of the SRS is to convince you that this law, namely the Civil Service Act, is not good and that it is anti-constitutional. I will read to you from this Article 37. Just 1st position so that I can try to convince you that this law, or bill, should be withdrawn: "Faces addressed to civil service work on the tasks and tasks assigned to them by a responsible person in accordance with the needs of an organisation or institution, where the professional prepares and interests of persons in civil service are not a binding criterion. "In this regard, ''they are not a binding criterion' today, Mr. Minister, in the Republic of Serbia, it is generally known that neither knowledge nor education nor ability is necessary nor at least responsibility. All that matters is a political resemblance. I will now give you an example when civil service is at stake. We all know that in almost all municipalities, our children serve a civil military deadline, some in health homes, some in public enterprises. One child has chronic bronchitis and has been given a home of health, another boy has been given to serve in the Public Communal Service Company. After three days, that child who was given the service in the Public Communal Company has put such pressure on the management of the company because he does not want to serve the military there. Normally, certain people reacted in two days and he got to go to the health home and write recipes. It's just, I have to point out, he had to use another argument to say he was a member of the DS. I saw you, Mr. Minister, in Sombor on the oath of soldiers. I'm from the West Coast, and I was present on the last four oaths of soldiers in Sombor. What's very good is that today our children are making more and more decisions in the traditional way of serving the military, that in their consciousness is an increasingly present national patriotic option, but certainly, Mr. Minister, that this is not your credit. What I would resent to you, Mr. Minister, when you were in Somboro, is that you didn't go down after that to the soldiers, to their parents, and you saw by some estimates there were seven, eight thousand people, to take pictures with those soldiers, because swearing is something you remember your whole life, but I also understand you. What you promised the citizens in 2000, namely in one of your own, allegedly contracted with the people, of ten points, you did nothing, and that's why you can't join the people. I am convinced that this will not take long and that because of everything you promised the people in 2000, you will soon have to leave your chairs and that the people will have the authority they deserve. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u28033	One minute and 45 seconds of time spent by the parliamentary group. The word is made by Minister Dragan Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u28034	Mr. Flea, everything you said about the oath that was in Somboru is false if you let me tell a lie. On every oath I attended and spoke, I went down into the people. You'll be told by your colleague sitting behind you, and today he's not here, on every oath I take pictures with the people and we have at the Ministry of Defense site you can look at and find photos from the Somboro oaths. It's not that you insult me, it's that you insult all those young people who were there, with whom I took pictures. On the other hand, it is absolutely irrelevant whether I have contributed to the reputation of the military and the military profession returning to its place of origin. You can dispute that, but that's the fact that it was done and the fact is that the most ruined reputation was in the time when you were building the fate of the Serbian Army. Today, members of the army live more politely and twice as well as at a time when you had the opportunity to decide their fates. You believe me, I'm sorry we didn't get a chance to see each other in Somboro so we could talk, so we could talk to the parents of these soldiers and the soldiers, and hear what they think. The insults you bring to me now are nothing more than an insult to all those who have gathered in Somboro to greet not only me, but to greet and finally to return to the old tradition by the army of Serbia and finally by tradition we have women in the military, which we have future officers who are women. So it's not just tradition, there's something about modernization. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u28035	National MP Dobrislav Prelic, right on line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u28036	Mr. Minister, I least expected you to say I'm lying. I was present at the barracks, at least 200 people were around me who could confirm it, and I didn't see you coming down into the people. As for tradition and return, that is, increasing the number of our recruits, you really can't be an example of it and you can't be responsible for it, especially since it's generally known what attitudes you represent. When an aggression was committed in 1999 at the SRJ, at the time your leaders fled Serbia and called for more bombings. Many of you were locators here in Serbia, and I'm sure the number of recruits that, for example, are in Somboro or the quotas they have since 350, in the last four departures in the military is even bigger than double. Of course, it's not your merits. It's that in the young people, in our children, there's a national awareness. This government is not the will of Serbian citizens. Serbian citizens voted for the national government, be sure of that, they are deceived and will no longer allow it, Mr. Minister. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u28037	The word is made by Minister Dragan Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u28038	Mr. Prelyu, this government is the will of the citizens of Serbia. If there is any democracy, it is the government's choice and the way in which there is no more theft, in which there are no more deadlock boxes, in which there is no longer the possibility that those in power alone are counting votes. Your colleague behind you is not here today, his last name is, if I am not mistaken, Shkrbić, I spoke to him personally on the oath. He was with me. If you do not believe in me, trust him. Believe me, with all my views that are generally known, the number of young men who serve the Army is increasing. If I were you, I wouldn't associate it with each other, not in positive, not in negative, because whatever my opinion is, it's known, and the popularity and reputation of the Army is growing, it's not good for you to connect it, because it only goes to me to honor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u28039	Anyone else want a word? National MP Mirko Chikiriz is using the time of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u28040	I propose that the amendment of the SRS be rejected and it is good that the Serbian public sees an honest view of the SRS that has not changed in anything since the 1990s. Namely, one who calls for the famous tradition of the Serbian Army cannot interfere with that army and the behaviour that was in the 1990s and the First World War, the Balkan wars, the Karadjordjev uprising and all that is most famous in Serbian tradition. In the First World War, we brought down three empires, but not a single godmom, we didn't bring down anyone's home, we put in concentration camps of civilians, there was no rape, there was no robbery, there wasn't everything that was 90 years old, there were no paramilitary formations, which seriously brought down both the military and the state's reputation. I ask the members of the SRS – did they notice why in 1999 the response was remarkable, unlike the 1990s, in a code, unfair and contrary to all the standards of the international community, bombing of the Republic of Serbia. First of all, because our people recognized the objectives of unfair bombing and because they felt that it was very honorable to give life in such a situation, unlike wars that had no purpose, their own justification, because the political reasons of Serbia caused us not to have any military goals, that we resisted the reforms we were carrying out with 20 years of delay. I would pray that whoever calls for the famous tradition of the Serbian Army does not interfere with that period of the '90s, which is the period of our greatest disgrace.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u28041	Two minutes has been used since the parliamentary group's time. People's MP, I remind you of the obligation to discuss both details and in principle what is on the agenda and that it is currently in the debate of the amendment submitted by MP Dobrislav Prelic to article 37. With all the argument that MPs have the right to use, I remind you that it is an obligation for the MP to talk about a subject on the agenda. National MP Aleksandar Martinovic, right on line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u28042	I'm reporting from the Rules of Procedure. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a member of 101 has been injured, and position 2. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, because my colleague Chikiriz, for reasons I have been completely unknown, presented a whole series of untrue qualifications on the SRS. Mr. Chikiriz, since the SPO came under American control, you want to erase the memory of Serbian citizens. To remind you, the SPO municipal committees conducted public records of volunteers in the so-called Serbian National Guard in 1991. Let me ask you, which party belonged to the late Djordje Bozovic – Gishka? Which party belonged to the late Branislav Vojnović – Dugi? Which party belonged to the late White? Where did Gishka die? Was he hunting rabbits in Cosmaj or while defending the Serb people and fighting Ustasha at Gospić? How did this suddenly become pointless? You have dived your tears over the coffin of Đorđa Bozovica – Giške. Did he die for pointless reasons? Did he invent Franjo Tudjman? Did he invent a vampered constitution for an independent state in Croatia? As for tradition, Mr. Minister, it seems you haven't heard of Milunka Savik. Turns out you invented the concept of a woman in the army. In whose army was Milunka Savic fought and was awarded the highest Serbian military medals, because she was the best woman bomber in World War I? Turns out we Serbs didn't have women in the army until Dragan Sutanovac became defence minister. The CIA knows a lot, Mr. Sutanovac, but Serbia's history is still insufficient. I understand that they trained you in various things, but they didn't seem to tell you that in World War I there was a woman named Milunka Savik. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u28043	Messenger of the people, there is no harm to the messengers, nor is it done in the quoted one. Please don't throw it away. MP Suleiman Spaho, please don't throw away. So, on several occasions, various MPs have asked for strict respect for the provisions of the Rules of Procedure and I really do strictly apply it, but I warn you that there can be no rights that apply only to one and for the other that are not valid. What would a friend of mine from Pirot say, "it's not a democracy for opponents." So if we're looking for the right to apply to us, then those same rights have other rights. I ask you not to throw away or disturb the speakers, as you have the full right, each of the MPs, to ask that he be not distracted and not throw himself at him. The breach of the Rules of Procedure was not done. The People's MP Mirko Cikiriz has the right to reply, and before him Minister Dragan Sutanovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u28044	It's not a question of whether I've heard of women who've ever been to the Serbian Army, believe me, I know more about it than you do. For the first time at the Military Academy in Serbia, we have generations of cadets who learn to be officers of the Serbian Army and that's the first time. But it's not the first time anyone in Serbia has collected volunteers for participation in the war. You know, there was a war led by Americans against Iraq when Iraq entered Kuwait. At that time, Vojislav Seselj gathered volunteers to go to war to support the US military against Iraq. Can you imagine how things changed during such a short period of time, so from the greatest friend of the American people, you became the greatest enemies.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u28045	National MP Mirko Cikiriz, right to replica, and then, MP Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u28046	I thank you for this right to the replica, for what the SPI has been advocated in the first place, it will be denied, and after a while it will be accepted. Today we have a Serbian Army of the Republic of Serbia called the Army of Serbia. If it were up to us, it would be called the Serb army. Volunteers who were dominantly members of the SPO were members of the Serbian Guard. The "Serbian Guard" was formed at the time when the Croatian Guard was formed, in response to that formation. We were then politically looking for and sending official letters to the General Staff, as the JNA had obviously disintegrated, that in response to the formation of the Croatian army the Serb army was formed and that clear and political and military objectives were set. The regime then defended the Yugoslav idea, Tito's idea, the Yugoslav Army, not the Serb army. A well-known Hague indictee told Djorđa Bozovicu-Giski in Knin that instead of a Serb coat of arms with a two-headed crown, Nemnjević prefers to see the chess room. Now, we came to the point that JNA was humiliated as never, not by the guilt of officers, not by the guilt of soldiers, but by the guilt of politics. For the weekend, students and students came to the army who had both the power and the water shut down in the barracks, to practice the shooting, to humiliate the soldiers, to kill them. The Belgrade regime laughed at Slovenians saying it was a hunting group, and we were humiliated in Slovenia as well. If the SPO's position had then been accepted, only the fact that there is a Serb army would have twice forced Tudjman and others to consider whether they would be going on adventures for which they are equally responsible as the regime in Belgrade.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u28047	National MP Aleksandar Martinovic, right on line.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u28048	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, of course Vojislav Seselj will be much better off answering Mr. Dragan Sutanovac than I am when he returns to Serbia. But it would be good if Dragan Sutanovac told us – how many volunteers did the SRS send to help Iraq? Where are they trained? How did they fight that? And as for you, Mr. Chikiriz, you yourself admitted that those wars that were waged in the '90s weren't pointless. You are now saying - we have proposed the formation of the 'Serbian Guard' because a Croatian, Ustasha army was formed. Then how come there's no war? What was the Serbian people supposed to do in the then Serbian Autonomous Area of Krajina? To experience the slaughter as it was in 1941. A year?- I'm sorry. We are not talking at all about communist JNA generals here, I am talking about the existential threat of the Serbian people in the then-Serbian Autonomous Area of Krajina. That people had no other solution than to raise themselves to arms. Tudjman, as you also admitted, told an American journalist in Germany in 1989 -- that blood will flow in Krajina, just as it was in an independent state of Croatia. The SPO, Mr. Chikiriz, I don't know if you were a member of that party back then, but in 1990, there were no villages in Serbia where the bandits were not stuck to the cards of Greater Serbia, which was printed not by the SRS, but by the SPO. You gave it up. Why did you give up? I don't know. Mr. Sutanovac seems to have forgotten that the DS didn't come to power for the first time in 2000. Well, whose ministers were in the government of Milan Panic, Mr. Sutanovac? The army was under federal control, it was the Federal Ministry. Your people were sitting in the federal government of Milan Panic. Your coalition partner was, as I recall, the foreign minister at the time of NATO aggression, when Zoran Djindjic, with the help of criminals, fled Serbia to Montenegro and from Montenegro to Germany, and urged the regime of Slobodan Milosevic from Germany to collapse by stepping up NATO will strike Serbia's military and civilian targets in Serbia. At the time, it was a public secret that as many bombs fall on Serbia, Slobodan Milosevic will fall sooner. That's what this is all about, and you've forgotten all about it. You think history only comes in favor of you. It's not like that. Not only has history started since 2000, I guess there's been history before. Looks like we're attending some kind of family argument between DS and SPO, so now they can't agree on who did what in the '90s, '92 and '99, who supported who and who did what. I don't mind you arguing about it, but don't use the National Assembly. When you sit in restaurants, you solve your divorce cases past the citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u28049	The word is made by Minister Dragan Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u28050	For the sake of truth, Zoran Djindjic never invited anyone to bomb Serbia. Zoran Djindjic moved out of Serbia at a time when it was clear that the regime in which you were participating to kill him, as killed Slavko Curuvija, as he killed a large number of people in the 1990s. He moved to Montenegro, and his family was in Valjevo, Valjevo was the city most bombed in 1999. Montenegro was bombed at the time, so when you say it escaped from Serbia, you need to know that it escaped from you and those who, for your authority's sake, killed in Serbia. Thank God, that's when he managed to save himself. Unfortunately, it wasn't after that. As for volunteers, it's not a secret. You can read that, please, Mrs. Radeta, don't throw it at me as I speak. Vojislav Seselj enrolled volunteers to support the US military in the war against Iraq in the First Gulf War, with a delegation of his co-workers, went to the US Embassy to offer his units. They didn't know if he came from an institution or from a street, so they treated him that way and told him to turn somewhere else, to help him out there. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u28051	National MP Sasa Dujovic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure and gets the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u28052	I'm advertising Article 103, Section 1, which says, "The speaker can only talk about the issue on the agenda. ''I have a duty, within the time to advertise the Rules of Procedure, to say on behalf of hundreds of thousands of war volunteers who laid down their lives in the 1990s on the altar for the salvation of the Serbian people, not to repeat it in 1941 and 1945, defending the Serbian people through the Drina, mostly in the Serbian Krajina and Republika Srpska, that we did it with honor and honesty, because I am one of them. Secondly, I want to deny one predecessor who said Serbia had some kind of camps. I personally know, and I'm sure the state authorities, in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, no camps, no prisoners, existed. Clear, for the sake of the public, and for the sake of knowing what's true.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u28053	Anyone else want to talk about an amendment to Article 37? You have no right to a replica. National MP Aleksandar Martinovic does not have the right to reply. (The Faith of Radeta, from the place: explain why. Please don't throw it away. National MP Verica Radeta violates Article 104. Please stop, or I'll be forced to give the first warning measure. The gesture you have shown, this gesture is not allowed in the Assembly, it is not appropriate for me and will never be used, and I ask you to compare your gestures and your conduct to the members of the Rules of Procedure to which you are obliged as a People's MP. Member of the 38th Amendment was submitted by MP Marina Ragush. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Šormaz, Jovan Palalic, Miroslav Petkovic, Milos Aligrudic and Zoran Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Dragan Shormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u28054	Please, what's more than two minutes from the MP's club, and not from my 15 minutes as authorized, I'll spend it at the next item of the agenda. As far as the DSS is concerned, we have already said several times that the bill, as well as the previous law on labour and material obligations, is considered a step forward and that they are essentially much better than they have been, which does not mean that we praise the Government of the Republic of Serbia. One owner doesn't make spring. The military can't help much if the state goes bankrupt, because then there won't be money for either the military or the professionalization of the military, and we're not talking about not winning anyway, because the ruling majority has rejected the amendments I've made to the budget proposal, that the military gets a minimum of 2.5% of what the money is in the budget for its needs. It always gets less, but somehow the ruling majority has no hearing to do so and to help the minister in this work, to help the Army of the Republic of Serbia, and I see that everyone is full of the mouth of the Republic of Serbia, traditions, etc. I must say that we at the DSS have long advocated professionalization of the military, it's a constitutional obligation to allow civil service of the military, and I personally respect men who serve the military more than civilians serve the military. But that's their constitutional right, we all voted for that constitution together. On the other hand, the same doctrine of an armed people, I have to say, I've been listening to it here for two weeks, so it's so old and if we're talking about tradition, and if we're talking about something history has taught us, it's always a much better well-armed and well-trained soldier unit and army regardless of number, but I don't know a few million people whose tunings suck in the hands and they have no idea what to do with it. I served the Army and I'm involved in the war, when it was the defense of our country against the NATO pact's criminal attack, illegal, I agree with the SPO gentleman. The right to tell you, there were soldiers next to me who, whenever a bomb broke, everyone knows that a soldier is better off with a soldier as capable of fighting, than someone he can't count on, so I don't know what number they have. Leonidas stood up to a few thousand soldiers of the entire empire, knowing what he was doing until it was a betrayal. Alexander of Macedonia won with ten times as many soldiers, I speak when it was even more important to have a professional army than an armed people, with ten times less soldiers defeated Persian Emperor Dari in battle in an hour. When during the reign of Father Emperor Dushan, two armies, Bulgarians and Turks, with only one squad of well-trained gunmen, young soldiers, Serbian nobles, then the emperor Prince Dusan, with one attack, with one squad, forced the entire Bulgarian army to flee. So, we have a lot to call on, a lot is familiar with. You know, a professional army is much stronger. We at the DSS, and while we were in power, we tried as hard as we could to do it and do it, and it should still be. This should continue and should support the state in these efforts, just so that as a military neutral country, we have a capable military army to meet all its obligations and constitutional obligations, both towards the state and the people. As far as these amendments are concerned, we have submitted only two amendments to this law and both have been rejected. I have to say, it shows here that they were rejected in a way that excludes each other. I'll explain, you'll see how illogical the way they've been rejected is. Let's say, where we said that Article 4 should be deleted, because we believe that the recruit is suggested to be subject to an appeal of conscience, so when the recruit comes, this law stipulates that the officer to whom the recruit comes is the first time to report is obliged to tell him about the complaint of conscience. Why would it be a commitment? In response, we are told that it is the constitutional right of everyone. Yes, but why would it be an obligation for an officer to tell him that he has the right to object? It's like saying that when a judge loses a criminal dispute, someone who's damaged in that criminal dispute, he has to say that he has the right to file a civil suit and so on. It doesn't say it has to. We can give as many examples as you want. Now I'm talking about the amendment where we proposed to be in Article 38. "The organisation or institution in which the civil service is carried out is obliged to provide civil service persons with the rights prescribed in Article 34 of this Law. "It further lists what the person is doing in that organisation. We wanted to, just because we don't see it standing clearly, because we at the DSS think it's most important for the civilian service of the military term that one who defines himself as serving a military term must, at least, finishes what's called civil protection training. That's what's important. For this reason, we wanted to make sure that the organisation or institution in which the civil service is carried out is obliged to ensure, in collaboration with the territorial authorities of the Ministry of Defence, that the person in the civil service completes the training for performing civil protection matters. So, that organization he's heading to, she's bound to suggest. Practically, as it says in Article 4. We ask that he suggest or that he is obliged to ensure that this person completes his civil protection work training. In response to this amendment, it is said that this is already regulated in Article 41 and that it is therefore not accepted, since the training for performing civil protection activities is carried out outside organisations or institutions in certain terms and for a period of at least 14 days, the organisation or institution is obliged to refer the person in the civil service to conduct civil protection activities, at the request of the territorial authority of the Ministry of Defence. That's exactly what we wrote, that's what she's supposed to do. The article doesn't say. I remind you in article 38, it doesn't say she's in debt, and in response we're told that it's already written in article 41. I read article 41, which says: "Civil protection training includes professional training to carry out tasks" and so on. "The programme, procedure and method of organising and conducting civil protection tasks training for at least 14 days, i.e. 84 classes, as well as other issues of importance for training, is prescribed by the defence minister on a proposal from the authority responsible for civil protection matters. Civil protection training is normally carried out in the place of civil service. 'If not, then the nearest. "Faces in civil service that are not qualified for civil protection jobs are referred to again in training in the first future." So, it doesn't say what we're looking for in Article 38, and in reason we're told it says that this organization is sending it to training. It all says, that the minister and that they are obliged to do so, but it doesn't say who, why don't we, let's say, the hospital, I said that I know that in case a man was serving a civilian army in the service of 988, why don't we be post office or Telecom in an obligation to train him, that's one possibility more, to make sure that whoever's taking over the civilian soldier takes him to this training, and not to waste time and then to determine whether he's finished that training from civil protection or not, and then to call him again to finish and to make the cost of administration. Simply, one instruction, a legal obligation – please, gentlemen, when it is done, you must also tell him and that he is obliged to complete civil protection and to direct him to the authority that is obliged to do so.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u28055	Anyone else want a word? If not, MP Milovan Radovanovic submitted to the 39th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 40 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Nikola Savic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u28056	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to the 40th Civil Service Act, with the idea of erasing that member. The essence of this law is to give legitimacy to destroy Serbia's military. Since the beginning of a civilized world and a civilized society, there has been a clear distance between military and civilian institutions. It is clear from this that everything related to the Army involves both arms and uniforms, while that is not the case when it comes to civil institutions. However, this law that lies before us today is trying to prove impossible, which is that someone who has never seen or touched a weapon or uniform is a soldier. I really think that someone who had no weapons in their hands and never put on a uniform, that he couldn't be a soldier, and that's really how it is, here I ask the present minister -- are such people who served the military deadline in a civilian way going to call for a military exercise and if he invites them, what are they going to do on that exercise? For example, we know that in a set of these laws we are also considering the Law of Features. Will such faces get medals, promotions, etc? For that reason, the SRS is absolutely against the adoption of this law. We find the law unnecessary, and the matter being treated in it can be regulated by other laws, and one of them is the law that we had discussed before, and that is this law on military and material obligations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u28057	Anyone else want a word? If not, the People's MP, Suleyman Spaho, submitted to Article 41 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has been given by the People's Messenger Suleiman Spaho.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u28058	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, on behalf of the SRS Parliamentary Group, I have tabled an amendment to Article 41 which I have proposed to delete. As Honorable colleague Gordana Pop-Lazic, Mr. Minister, has just said, I suggest that you withdraw this law from the procedure as soon as possible because of everything that is going on in the military. It is stated in point 1 that a person in civil service is trained to carry out work tasks in the work of an organisation or institution, as well as to carry out civil service tasks. The SRS is very interested in information – which organisations or institutions refer to as civil service, which are allegedly in the interest of defending the country? According to you, Mr. Minister, the civilian service can do anything but defend the country. I served a military term of 18 months, and when your friends from the West started tearing Yugoslavia apart, I'm proud, and proud of my volunteer SRS, I went to defend the Serb brothers from the Ustasha knife. Thanks to my 18-month existence in the military, I came back alive to my family, my SRS and my Serbia. [[Applause]] And if I was in civil service, which you're up for, maybe I wouldn't be here. Civil service is just one part of what you have to fulfill towards the EU. Always Serbia when it wanted to defend itself and as long as there were patriots, without any civilian or any service, went each Serb and every Serbian citizen and will go to defend Serbia. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u28059	Anyone else want a word? If not, MP Dragan Stevanovic submitted to Article 42 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? People's MP, you're reporting for the next amendment? The 43rd amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Filip Stojanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u28060	Dear Members of the People, ladies and gentlemen, I have submitted an amendment to request that Article 43 be made. The Civil Service Bill proposal is deleted. The SRS considers the entire Civil Service Act to be harmful. Such a solution undermines the defence system of the Republic of Serbia, and the Serbian Army becomes a kindergarten. The environment in which our country is located is not harmless at all. According to experts from the West, KIM is an al-Qaeda logistics base, and its terrorist cells can also be found in BiH. Cypriot terrorists pile up troops and weapons and raise more money in training and equipping special forces from Serbia. The first man of the US Congress to fight terrorism, Joseph Bodanski, has repeatedly designated KIM as the logistics base "Al Qaeda" in the Balkans. Serbia is particularly threatened by the actions of Islamic fundamentalists and Shiparian terrorists. I think this is enough evidence to support that the Republic of Serbia must have a strong army and a strong police force. For the example, in order to become a respectable unit in the region, the gendarmes would have to get the equipment and weapons worth $30m. With such legal proposals, which the SRS criticises, you slowly abolish the military and leave the state for mercy and mercy. If we don't have our own army, we'll have to pay someone else. Perhaps you want the NATO Pact to replace the Army of Serbia. We don't want to, and that's why we stand up to your suggestions. For all of this, I urge you to re-examine this law and adopt my amendment requesting the erasure of Article 43. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u28061	Anyone else want a word? If not, a proposal to add a new member, MP Konstantin Arsenovic has tabled an amendment proposing the addition of a new member of 43a. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Konstantin Arsenović.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u28062	The Honorable Presidency, Mr. Minister, is not controversial, it has always been that individuals have had the resistance to carrying weapons. They even disagreed, to say the different ways they expressed, even went to prison, at a time when they couldn't object. So, we don't talk about people like that, and it's certainly a good thing that this law, like this, is going to be passed. However, here is the problem of abuse of this law by many of those people who are the same. I knew a lot of people, I didn't know many, but I knew individuals who didn't want to carry guns. They were mostly involved in humanitarian or educational affairs, etc. Now, there is one problem here that there are no destimulating measures in this law that those people who really don't think so, or who don't have real consciousness, object to their conscience, to prevent them from using that institution. This is where I suggested, this member, certain measures. They may be broad, but it would be good, if nothing else, Mr. Minister, to consider, maybe this could be a different formula. I've seen him like this, and I'm not saying he's the best, but it certainly would be good if there were one member in this law who would detimulately act on those people who don't have an honest relationship with their conscience. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u28063	Anyone else want a word? If not, MP Ljubisa Petkovic has submitted to the 44th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Ljubisa Petkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u28064	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the SRS Parliamentary Group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 44, and I have suggested that Article 44 be deleted. I would say, ladies and gentlemen, that not only a member of 44, but the whole civil service bill is vague, incomprehensible and inconclusive. In addition, fellow SRS MPs have already said several times that he is harmful, both for the safety and defence of the Republic of Serbia. When I say it's unclear, it's inconclusive, I'd just like to read to you the first position of article 44, which says, "The person who finished the civil service, on the day of his release from the organization or institution, becomes a person in reserve and enters the reserve record. '"It's really a little vague, not just for me, I don't think it's defined here at all what kind of spare composition it's about, some football club, or a sports club of divers or so on. I am sure that this person is not meant to be in the reserve composition of the Serbian Army, for the simple reason that article 1 of the 44th would absolutely be in collegiate with the draft law on military, labour and material obligations, and Article 4 in which the last position, so that I would not now count exactly what order it is, says that the military official who performs the civil service does not have military status. That's what the bill says. Therefore, the person serving the civil service cannot be included in the Serbian Army's reserve. In addition, the entire draft civil service law is also in conflict with Article 2. The draft law on military, labour and material obligations, in fact, even in all three positions, but I could read to you Article 2 which says: "A military obligation is the right and duty of citizens to prepare and train for participation in defence. ''The position of Article 2 states: ''The military obligation in peace, emergency or war is to all citizens who prepare and train to carry out military duties and other defence tasks, in accordance with the law. '"I really think this civil service law is so vague, it's collapsing with the proposed law. I would suggest, Mr. Minister, I think you'd be much smarter if you'd called this law, the Civil Service Bill, another more appropriate name. My assessment is that it is better that you put forward a bill on legalisation, desertion from the Serbian Army. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u28065	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 45 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljubisa Petkovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Ljubisa Petkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u28066	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS Parliamentary Group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 45. It's a bill of law. Paragraph 3 states that in the event of an emergency or a war situation, the President of the Republic may decide that the person to whom the civil service has expired, under this law, is to remain in civil service as a person in reserve. Article 45 provides that persons in civil service are also obliged until the 1960s. Personally, since we had a similar amendment to the Bill on Military, Working and Material Obligation, I suggested that the border be 55 years, and I really don't see any serious reason here why in the 1960s any person would be activated if we had a large number of young people who could respond both physically and mentally and in any other way. I would say, except in Article 45, in all of the law, which was proposed and put into assembly procedure, that this law has another political background. I am convinced that this law is recruiting young people in the role of DS. The SRS has never dealt with such things, and it will never be done. The SRS could say -- let's destroy the army, if it doesn't exist, we don't need civilian service. I believe that one part of the electoral body would give us a large number of votes, but the SRS has no intention of giving up its policies, its ideologies, and has no intention of breaking Serbia's military's readyness at some point.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u28067	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 46 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljubisa Petkovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Ljubisa Petkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u28068	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 46, and I would like to remind you of paragraph 4. The proposal for a law which reads as follows: ‘Extremely, during an emergency or wartime situation, the President of the Republic may decide to engage: 1) persons in the reserve assembly who have completed the exercise in the course of the prescribed provision of Article 2 of this Article; 2) persons in the reserve composition who have completed the years of life under Article 45(1) of this Act. ''Really, I think this is inappropriate, that people over 60 years old or 60 years old, no matter whether it's a military obligation or civil service or civil protection, invite them, direct them or detain them during the war. I wonder what benefits civil service will have, what will the Serbian Army benefit from if people of those years are referred to, and I would like to say that, God forbid, there is a situation in about 10-15 years until any war on these premises, be sure that we will have over three million people in civil service, civil protection, and the question is whether we will have 3,000 soldiers to defend our country.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u28069	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 46 of the amendment was submitted by MP Konstantin Arsenović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 47 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljubisa Petkovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Ljubisa Petkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u28070	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 47, and what I could notice is that, in Article 47, there are mostly certain issues that are related to the interruption or release or disposal of a military exercise, of course related to civil service law. There are so many reasons here, where you're fortunate to have given more reasons for those who would have had to go to military exercises, you've given much more space to civil service, but what to do, you intend to enforce this law in such a way. As far as I am aware, the Civil Service Act is mostly intended for persons who have decided not to serve a military term because of their objection to conscience. That by any chance, Mr. Minister, by at least one attitude or by one member in the bill of this law, you have inserted that civil service can be served, and the civil service can be used with weapons, to give them a hekler, to give them some light firearms, a CZ gun, a scorpion or anything, I wonder if they would then really want to have a conscience complaint. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u28071	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 48 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljubisa Petkovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Ljubisa Petkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u28072	Mr. Minister, maybe that's funny, I agree with you that it's a whole law at all, but I'd like to get one explanation from you, to tell me if it's really some expert team or if you've been involved in putting together this civil service bill. I may have made a mistake at the very beginning that I did not ask the chairman to attend today's session, when we discuss this civil service law, to be present here as the legislator of this law. Mr. Minister, I don't see any mention of the Army, and on the last page of the bill, all MPs have, I can show it, it clearly says which legislator of this law. I will read to you: ''The Civil Service Act is in accordance with its provisions: Resolution 337 of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe; Recommendation 78 (1967) of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe; Recommendation 816 (1977) of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe; Recommendation No. R (87) 8 Council of Europe Council of Ministers, Resolution 1042 (1994) of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, there are also some English, French, etc., that I do not read. These are the promoters. I was expecting one of these promoters to show up today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u28073	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 49 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljubisa Petkovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Ljubisa Petkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u28074	Thank you. I have nothing to say.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u28075	Member of the 49th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Antic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 50 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Dusan Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u28076	The SRS is against civil service and therefore we have proposed to delete all members of this bill. I'm taking the opportunity and the presence of Mr. Minister to ask him to give me a few explanations, if he please. Maybe after them, I'll change my mind about civil service. First, to make the termologically clear to me the concept of civil service of the military. I admit that after a few days of debate, it's not quite clear to me. In my opinion, it's even impossible to explain for reasons of incompatibility. The military deadline is military or not military. When you instruct the recruit to be a kindergarten teacher or a cleaning lady in the Red Cross, it is the same as to welcome this young woman into a mountaineering society and then to guide him on the plains of Vojvodina and to say that you have directed him on a hiking trip. The second explanation I need, and I don't understand how it's possible for a recruit to serve a military term without ever entering a barracks in his life, never in his life wearing a uniform and never in his life taking a gun in his hand, and then giving him a military book, you write in that military book that he served his military commitment to the state, and you confirm that by sealing it. A third explanation, how it is possible that this false soldier, after serving a false military term, has absolutely no obligation towards the Republic of Serbia, to defend the Republic of Serbia. This is where you mention his reference to the backup system. I'm interested in what my colleague Petkovic asked, which is the reserve composition in which it is directed after the so-called military service? My colleague Popovic says it's a dilemma whether it's a spare diaper washer, a spare carpet washer, a spare window washer or a street washer. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u28077	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 51 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Dusan Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u28078	I have proposed eradicating this member for the following reasons – I believe that if this law is adopted, it will be directly in the function of weakening the Serbian Army and the defence power of the Republic of Serbia, as I believe anyone who votes to adopt this bill will do a bad thing to his country and do a bear service to the Serbian youth. Thanks to DS and other Dosov parties, and now I see with a significant contribution from the SPS, instead of teaching and training his sons to be men, soldiers, to be fosterers of the family and defenders of the country's responsible people, hosts, Serbia teaches them to be deserters. Teach them it's normal that instead of in a barracks with rifles and other soldiers, with officers, where they belong, the military service is like aunts in kindergartens or cleaning women in health homes. Thanks to this, instead of the mutilated men, the trained soldiers, the gunmen, the artillerymen, the army is returning to our hair the healed mothers and father's sons, who are professionally and morally prepared to appear on some pride parade rather than on a military parade. Finally, Minister Sutanovac, Vlada, but I am asking us all in this high house one question, which really bothers me, what will happen if, at one point, in one day or in one year, all recruits, all soldiers, can all officers and all the reservers call for conscience. Serbia will be left without the Army. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u28079	People's MP, I warn you not to question the Constitution of guaranteed rights and disqualify people or label anyone who, by our Constitution, would have the right to appeal to conscience. If you do not want to take seriously the Constitution of prescribed rights and my warnings, then I will be forced to apply the criminal measures of the Rules of Procedure to remind you in such a way that we are obliged not to disrespect the provisions of the Constitution that is in force. You were warned yesterday. This is the last warning. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 52 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Dusan Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u28080	For the reasons listed by the MPs of the SRS, which I have spoken of and which I will now speak of, I have proposed to delete this member of the bill. What my next might be, perhaps, the biggest dilemma is what will happen if Serbia ever has to mobilise. What are they going to do with a third or half of the soldiers who served the military deadline, civil service of the military, who don't know what a rifle looks like, let alone a rifle to handle. There is no telling what is worse – whether to mobilize them or not. If we don't mobilize them, the mobilization will fail, because I assume that the other half of the military pledges will not agree to respond to a military call, a team as long as 18 years ago and while you were opposition, and now that you're in power of the Serbian citizen, you convince that the defence of the country is neither an honor nor an obligation but a matter of choice, and it may be a matter of risk, because anyone who participates in the defence of this country is the same state, as far as tomorrow, can declare him a war criminal. That's the kind of example we've already got. If you mobilize them again, the danger is that they pose a greater danger to themselves and to their comrades than to the enemy. Anyone who participated in the war and who held weapons in their hands, especially in the war where they were killed and killed, knows what I'm talking about, because as long as they learn to handle their weapons, I'm telling you they'll kill more of their comrades than the enemy soldiers. By passing these laws, you are making problems that will not be possible in the near future and that in 15, 20 years at the latest, can seriously threaten the survival of this country. You're building an army that in 10 or 15 years will be completely unusable.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u28081	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 52 of the amendment was submitted by MP Konstantin Arsenović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 53 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Dusan Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u28082	I suggested erasing this member, and I was right to say the following fact – you know that once Serbs sent their sons to the military with trumpets with folk joy. Since you rule Serbia, there has been more and more mass emissations in silence and more and more shame, because they are not sent to barracks, where soldiers have been sent to kindergartens, health homes, the Red Cross, municipal enterprises ever since the world and centuries. You know that once fathers lived in fear that their son would not be invited to the army, and today they pray that a military caller would not knock on their door with a military call. The fathers used to make fat connections to make sure that their sons who had a falinky get a call to serve their military time, not to be as popular as "scissors" by the medical commission. Today they're bribing members of the medical board to declare their sons unfit for the Army. Back in the day, the fathers made fat connections in the People's Defense Department to ensure that their sons served their military time, say, at the School of Reserve Officers in Bilaqa. Now, today, they demand that their sons serve their military term most often in kindergartens and homes of health. Health homes today are the most extensive facilities for military service. This is essentially the result of your irresponsible policy and this is the result of your reforms in the area of defence and security of the defence forces of the Republic of Serbia. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u28083	Anyone else want a word? The 53rd amendment was submitted by MP Konstantin Arsenovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 54 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Dusan Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u28084	I suggested that this member of the law be deleted as well. I suggest you accept my amendment. I suggest you accept all amendments to the SRS MPs, to withdraw this law from the procedure. All the young men of the so-called soldiers who are on the so-called service of the military service to serve a military term in the nearest barracks or military unit. So one move will do more useful things. First, you will save the honor of a Serb soldier. Secondly, you will strengthen Serbia's army. Third, you will increase the defence power of the Republic of Serbia. Fourth, you will free five, six thousand jobs currently occupied by these false soldiers. In this way, you will fulfill the pre-election promise you made before the last elections, that if citizens show you confidence, you will open two hundred thousand new jobs. Six thousand, not two hundred thousand, but when it comes to you, that's enough. I find it inadmissible that those who avoid serving the military deadline, except by lying in danger of the country's safety, take jobs for those Serbian citizens who would like to work. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u28085	Anyone else want a word? The 54th amendment was submitted by MP Konstantin Arsenovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 55 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Dusan Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u28086	I have nothing to say.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u28087	Anyone else want a word? The 55th Amendment was submitted by a group of 20 MPs of the Progress Serbia Group. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u28088	Here, ladies and gentlemen, this is, I mean, the last amendment to the SNS. Just as generally, for the end of this debate on amendments, let me say that the SNS thinks that this proposed law is too liberal, that there are very many shortcomings. In particular, this amendment refers to the full exclusion of the territorial authority in this law, and it has been able to contribute in many ways to making civil service a much better quality of military service. Therefore, we regret that we are under the impression that in some way the civil service of the military is favoured, and what, unfortunately, in these few days, is the debate of the laws concerning security and the military seems to me that we have not been given the answer to the basic question – what is the future and perspective of our army? What is expected in some future period when it comes to the number of recruits who are supposed to serve with weapons, without weapons, or in the civil service of the military? I hope that in some subsequent debate, we will explain some of the topics that literally relate to the future of our army and the need to serve the military term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u28089	Anyone else want a word? The 56th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Škrbic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 57 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Škrbić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 58 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Škrbić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Cedomir Jovanovic, Zoran Ostojić, Vesna Pesic, Nebojsa Rangelovic and Kenan Hajdarevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 59 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Škrbić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 60 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Škrbić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 61 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Škrbić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 62 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u28090	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today's debate on amendments to the Civil Service Bill is largely pointless. We are discussing a bill that is all the way from the first to the last member to the contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. This bill seeks to introduce one category of law into the legal system of the Republic of Serbia that the Serbian Constitution does not know. What the Serbian Constitution knows is the Serbian Army as one specific state body and involves two types of service in the Serbian Army. One type of service is the classic one that's centuries old, that's serving the Army with weapons and another kind of military service is serving a military term without weapons. The bill introduces a third category that the Constitution of Serbia does not know, which is so-called. Civil service military service or civil service in the Serbian Army. This famous Article 45, which is called upon by the legislator, and which is why all amendments of the SRS should be rejected, reads as follows: "A person is not required, contrary to his religion or beliefs, to fulfil a military or other obligation involving the use of weapons. A person who is called upon to object may be called upon to fulfil the military obligation without obligation to bear arms, in accordance with the law." So the only possibility allowed by the Serbian Constitution is that someone is serving the Army, but not carrying a weapon. But that someone doesn't go to the Army at all, that's to do that so-called. Civil service, the Serbian Constitution does not allow that. Although Serbia is indeed a legal state, although we suspect it is, unfortunately, the Constitutional Court will have to pass this law if you adopt it to put out of force, because it introduces a category that is directly contrary to the Constitution. Now, to make the irony bigger, the legislator is now calling for article 45 and is reportedly a member of 45. The constitution is the reason why our amendments should be rejected. No, Article 45. The constitution is the reason why all amendments to the SRS should be accepted, because the amendments to the SRS protect and defend the constitutional order of the Republic of Serbia. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u28091	Thirty seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. The 63rd amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u28092	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, since during this afternoon's debate, Mrs. Chairman played the political lawyer of Mr. Secretary of Defence, since he is obviously not capable of defending himself against the opposition attack, here I am going to say what Vojislav Seselj presented at a press conference held on Wednesday, 29 August 2001, about what was happening in Serbia in 1999 and who was behind certain murders. I filed with the Ministry of the Interior today...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u28093	People's MP, I remind you of the obligation for a People's MP who gets the word to speak on the agenda and I warn you that disrespect for a member who prescribes that the agenda is being drawn up by the chairman's obligation to express the measures of caution. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 64 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u28094	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think all Serbian citizens can see that the dignity of this National Assembly is respected and how much democracy is in Serbia. Indeed, "shut parliamentaryism" was introduced to Serbia as soon as you say something...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u28095	National MP, in my previous announcement, I warned you that you were obliged to speak on the agenda subject, and now I am warning you the second time, the amendment to article 65 is on the agenda, which you have submitted as a People's MP, and the amendment reads, "Article 65 is deleted." Please, in your next announcement, you must respect a member of the Rules of Procedure who prescribes that we must talk about the points of the agenda. The 65th Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u28096	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Serbia is a sad state in which the defence minister defends one person of the opposite and gentler sex. I informed them in the first letter that Zoran Davidović-Canda and Branko Jevtović-Jorga had been killed by Slavko Curuvija...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u28097	People's MP, I give you my first warning because of the disrespect of a member of the Rules of Procedure who prescribes that an MP is required to speak on the agenda point. Member of the 66th Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u28098	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, here, I think this is the best picture of the DS imagining democracy and parliamentaryism in Serbia, but well, I think the citizens of Serbia received all the necessary information from Vojislav Seselj as early as 2001. As for the draft civil service law, it is clear that it is directed against Serbia's natural, national and state interests. So, the Serbian Constitution does not know any civilian service of the military deadline, that the civil service facility existed, for example, during the time of the Serb-Turkish wars, if it existed during World War I and the Second, the question is whether Serbia would be today. There's one more question here, it's more logical-language problem than legal. Now it turns out, the one who goes to civilian military service, he has a conscience, the one who goes to the military, he's unconscious, so whoever defines that instead of carrying the gun and serving the Army, he keeps the girls in a nursing home -- he's a safe man, and whoever, for example, defends Serbia's border towards Bulgaria or Romania, he's unconscious. Now you can see to what extent the Serbian government has really reduced Serbia's military to absurdity. Furthermore, this bill fully extends the list of conditions under which someone can serve the Army without a weapon, aside from you identifying the service of an army without a weapon with a civilian service, you've obviously confused grandmothers and frogs. This is about you extending the bill to something that is regulated by the Constitution. The constitution says – someone can serve the Army without weapons, but only for religious or other beliefs, and you say in the bill – for religious, moral beliefs or for other reasons. Now the question is asked – what other justifiable reason is that? Mom and Dad's son came to the Department of Defense and said, "I'm emotionally tied to my goldfish in the aquarium, I can't separate myself from them and serve the Army." And you're going to say, well, that's a valid reason, he's tied to his cat, to his dog, to his computer, to his laptop, to his games, to his child to go to the Army. You will say – that is a valid reason, do not go to serve the Army, but as a god, go to civilian service of the military. I don't know what country in the world that's threatened by aggression that's threatened by the beating of its territorial integrity can do this kind of thing. It turns out that Serbia has no security challenges, that no one is jeopardising our territorial integrity, that there are no paramilitary formations in Serbia's territory, that there is no occupied part of Serbia by the Cypriot terrorists and NATO pacts, that no one threatens Serbia's territorial integrity in Vojvodina and that we can now play with the military, to mix military service with weapons, without weapons, with civil service, to introduce something that has never actually been in Serbia's history. It is clear that whoever votes today for the Civil Service Bill's proposal, votes against Serbia's lack of military, votes against the elemental national and state interests. I don't know, Mr. Minister, if you're familiar with the fact that, say, Croatia and Albania have recently been admitted to the NATO Pact, I don't know if you know that in Srem, which is based on this non-history border with Croatia, there is no military of Serbia, except in Sremska Mitrovica, and Croatia has entered the NATO Pact. And in Croatia there are direct concerts by Marko Perković-Tomson, who celebrates Jasenovac and Stara Gradiško and Max Luboric and the massacre of Serbs. What happens tomorrow if this and such Croatia within the NATO alliance starts to realise their plan – Croatia to Zemun, who will defend the citizens of Vojvodina, the citizens of Srema, who will defend, after all, and the individual Belgrade municipalities that should be found in the 'independent state of Croatia'?- I'm sorry. When you say "Croatia to Zemun", that means both New Belgrade and Zemun. Who's going to defend them? One barracks with 200 soldiers. You are here nonchalantly referring to this problem, not being able to enter into an argument with the MPs, but protecting the chairman by having the power to turn off the button. It is no problem to turn off the button for one MP, the problem is that you will turn off the light in Serbia. There will be no one to defend this people. But, it's easy for you, you have a back-up country, you've been brought into Serbia in 2000 to make a plan that someone else came up with, and when that plan is over, you're going to leave, but people living in Serbia have nowhere to go, that's the difference between you, which protects that button on the chair table and other Serbian citizens, that's a drastic difference. [[Applause]] [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u28099	Four minutes have been used since the parliamentary group's time. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 67 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u28100	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think it is scandalous in itself to have a debate on an unconstitutional bill, and that no representative, or commissioner, of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, has the need to take part in this debate. We have heard today from representatives of the ruling coalition a whole series of words that if they had been heard somewhere in a democratic Western state, the question is whether such a national MP would have gone without any consequences. We have, for example, heard that patriotism is a completely fictional, non-existent ideology, that it is to defend your country – participation in a pointless war, that Serbs had some concentration camps and that it was justified that, according to Serbs and Serbia, that is, the former Yugoslavia, such a criminal policy is opposed to international law, as it has been led since 1991. We have a situation here that the bill explains to us a man who openly advocates joining Serbia's NATO pact. We have a situation in which individual political parties participating in the Serbian government and who support the Serbian government are openly pushing for Serbia's participation in the NATO Pact, to organise seminars that Serbia should enter the NATO Pact, and those seminars are attended by people from the US Embassy. They boast at these seminars recently held in Novi Sad, that the largest achievement in Serbia's military reforms and our defence system is the fact that today, in 2009, the number of Serbian Army soldiers is down to 30,000. This is not said by the SRS, according to a political adviser at the US Embassy in Belgrade, they boast that they have succeeded with a project that started since 2000 -- that there is no more Serbia's Army, or that there is only paper, that the number of soldiers of the Serbian Army has been reduced to the least possible. They say it's a NATO standard. And Turkey's in the NATO Pact, and you see how many soldiers there are, how many fighter planes there are, how many tanks there are. As many Bulgarians have soldiers, twice as many as Serbia, and NATO is a member of the pact. How do some standards apply to some countries and some countries do not? Anyone who understands a little about geopoliticals, geostrategics knows that Serbia's position today, at the beginning of the 21st century, is not the same as the position of many countries today in Europe. It's easy for some country. No one threatens their territorial integrity. No one banishes their people from their centuries-old hearths. No one threatens to secede part of her country's territory. It's all happening in Serbia! Instead of the Serbian government proposing laws to protect the elemental, national and state interest, to strengthen Serbia's Army, no, we are doing everything we can to ensure that Serbia's armies are gone. The ground is being created, the brain of Serbian citizens softens, in order to be announced at one point -- people, there is no other solution, we need to enter the NATO Pact. There's no one else to protect us except to stand under that security umbrella of the NATO Pact. As for the SRS, we will take all measures of democratic and political struggle so that Serbia never enters the NATO pact, that the Serb soldier never participates in any operations conducted in Iraq, Afghanistan, anywhere in the world, in American interests. If the defence minister is ready to die for American interests, let him do it, let him not send Serbian children. What does Serbian children have to do with the war in Iraq and Afghanistan? Did we create Al-Qaeda? Did we in the early '80s support Saddam Hussein, then turn the turkey upside down? Why should we get involved in other people's things? What do we do for American and English drug dealers? If the Secretary of Defense participates in this, let him participate with his lawyers, allies, assistants, officers, we don't mind, but don't send other children. Don't be voluntary donors to other people's blood. You point to a personal case that you're willing to die for American interests, so when you do, maybe you can convince us that you really should. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u28101	People's MP, the subject is the Civil Service Act. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 68 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Ms. Verica Radet. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from the Verse of Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u28102	Through these five six amendments that I have submitted to the bill on behalf of the SRS Parliamentary Group to address first and foremost those young people who are standing or standing up for the military, in no way pursue the idea offered by this law and Minister Sutanovac, which is the first step towards Serbia's entry into NATO pact. I am quite certain that most of these young people who accept this civil service of the military do not intend to vote one day for Serbia's entry into NATO pact. Article 139. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia foresees that the Serbian Army defends the country against armed endangerment outside and executes other missions and tasks, in accordance with the Constitution, law and principles of international law, which regulate the use of force. This member of the Constitution is being ridiculed today by the representatives of the motionor, who, however, were merely throwing away and did not report for the word of the President-in-Office of Parliament, and yet on the basis of this article, you have proposed Article 2 of this Law on military, labour and material obligations, item 2 which says: 'A military obligation in peace, emergency or wartime shall all citizens who prepare and train to carry out military duties and other defence tasks, in accordance with the law. '' Which is, of course, in accordance with the Constitution and according to the tradition of the Serbian people and all citizens of Serbia, that is, the state of Serbia. I'll continue after the next amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u28103	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 68 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Batic Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 69 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Ms. Verica Radet. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from the Verse of Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u28104	The members of 68th and 69th prescribe the same thing, it's obvious. You must have written this other article by mistake in translation. In fact, Article 68 says, "The rules for the enforcement of this law will be laid down within 90 days of the date of entry into force of this law. ''Article 69 says: ''The individual acts necessary for the implementation of this law shall be brought by the defence minister, or by a person authorised by him within 90 days of the date of entry into force of this law. ''On the side of the SRS's position that there should be no civil service of the Army, that it is not in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and that it is not in accordance with this law on military, labour and material obligations, which you have also proposed to Parliament. And if we weren't in principle against this kind of military service, we'd be making objections to the members of 68th and 69th. A bill of this law. As I said, first of all for reasons, which is the exact same matter regulated by two members, and on the other hand, we are confident that the Minister and the Ministry will not fulfil this obligation within these 90 days, which they are taking over by this law. This will lead to this, that this law will be inapplicable, which of course corresponds to our views and principles. I'm saying this argument, because these days we're meeting as MPs, first of all with the materials we're getting from the government, with the motions to amend and supplement the laws we passed a few months ago.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u28105	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 70 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Ms. Verica Radet. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from the Verse of Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u28106	On behalf of the SRS, the People's MP, Verica Radeta, says we're saying you won't meet, gentlemen of the Ministry, this deadline that you're giving yourself with this law, because it wasn't done by your colleagues or by the Ministry of Justice or by the Ministry of Justice. And that is why, when this House adopts one law and within two or three months, we have amendments and additions to the same law. During the debate in these bill proposals, as we have done today and these days when these laws are of the group so-called. military laws, we draw attention and warn ministers as government representatives, that they cannot fulfil that obligation they give to themselves in certain laws. Then we have what we have. Today we have received a proposal in the material on three laws amending and supplementing the law in the field of justice, we have a law on amendments and amendments to the Law on travel documents. We spoke as if all four laws had been passed that you couldn't, that you weren't ready, to arrange what was written in the law. One day, that law, of course, arrives for payment, even though you bring it only to stay away from something that you've received in some scheme of regulations that you need to make. You do not engage at all, I am convinced that none of you have even read what it says in all these laws that we are discussing today, and therefore, of course, there is no debate that would be directed by the proposing representatives to the MPs. Excuse me, time.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u28107	The word is made by Minister Dragan Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u28108	Article 68, to which you have given the amendment, has already been amended. The amendment given by MP Vladan Batic was accepted and the time for the adoption of sublegal acts was extended. Thank you for noticing that, and we also noticed that. In the 1990s, once upon a time, a Serbian nationalist, asking what the Internet is, said he does not know what the Internet is, but is convinced that it is made up against the Serb people. Today, an MP here said that he doesn't know what we were talking about after a full day's debate, but he knows he's against this law. The second MP said that anyone who votes for these laws votes against Serbia's 'no' military. To translate -- anyone who votes for these laws votes for Serbia to have a strong, strong, stable, modern army. The laws debated over the past two days are laws that finally shape legislative reform and the possibility for Serbia to get a fully professional military, which will be ready and able to meet all the challenges, risks and threats that threaten Serbia today, but also in the future. What we are facing here as a problem is that even in the 21st century in discussions in the Serbian Parliament the sentences of ancient times, from the times, from four centuries ago, three centuries ago, in ancient Egypt, what Zivojin Misic, the Duke of Travelnik, and so on would say. I want to convince both you and the public of Serbia that the laws are neither made for the Duke of Misic, nor for the Traveler, nor for the old Egypt, the laws are made for the modern, modern state in the Balkans, as Serbia should be. For Serbia, which we want to be a full member of the EU, with all those standards being implemented in EU countries. [[Applause]] The fact that something is unclear from these laws does not oblige us to withdraw these laws, but to try to explain it to you. Unfortunately, today's discussion went so far that even one of you asked me – who brought me to Serbia. Dear Martinovic, a shameful question. At your age, young man, as far as I know you're working in college, to ask a question, not rude, rude, to ask me a question about who brought me to Serbia and when... The emissaries are getting it. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u28109	I ask the People's Messengers not to earn it. All those who now listen with surprise to the minister's answers, I refer to reading a stenogram of debates by the MPs and finding parts of the text that the minister is quoting now. The moment the minister breaks or approaches the violation of any member of the Rules of Procedure, he will be warned. And I remind you that you can't disturb the order of the session and I understand that you're surprised to hear the sentences we've all heard here. National MP Aleksandar Martinovic claims not to be true. I'm referring you to a stenogram. National MP Aleksandar Martinovic, you said that – whoever votes for this law, votes against Serbia's lack of military. The minister said one sentence to that obvious lapus of yours. Other MPs also quoted the offensive questions "who brought you here" and "who will take you away". Please either listen carefully to each other when we exchange discussions here or before reacting to what needs to be the minister's answer or anyone else, look at the stenogram. Until then, I ask that, with respect for the Rules of Procedure, you listen carefully to the Minister's answers to the questions and objections you have given him. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u28110	Honorable MPs, citizens of Serbia, regardless of what ends in tension this day, because it is obvious that there is a nervousness of those who have no topic and who are trying to use their time to disabling both the state and the military and the people, I want to tell you that this set of laws – a set of laws that allows the state to finally, in terms of the defence system, change and that the state as such gets a standard that it has not had before. If we're talking about the past, I have no problem sharing it with you. There was talk here about Cer. By circumstances, I am a descendant of the dead warrior of Cer, a descendant of the fallen warriors of World War II. I have no problem telling you that I am a descendant of World War II prisoners and I am willing and eager, whenever you want, to personally discuss our past. But what makes me and you different and what you and I don't share, that's the future. We don't want to give up the glorious future for our glorious past. And no one has the right to tell us what's ever been good if they're not aware of the time we're living in right now. The time in which we currently live dictates some new conditions, dictates new changes. Rest assured, all these great ones, to say psychics or visionaries at the time they lived, wanted to see the Army of Serbia as we are currently forming it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-15-0.u28111	I hereby conclude today's work in the afternoon session. The paper continues tomorrow, Friday, with a debate in particular on the draft civil service law, the amendment debate on Article 71, which was tabled by Ms Verica Radeta. Thank you.
