ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16007	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Second Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 100 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 88 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that more than one third of the MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Velimir Ilic, Jelena Travar-Miljević, Zoran Bortic and Nikola Novakovic. According to Article 88(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I have called for the session to be attended by Aniko Muškonja-Hinrich, State Secretary at the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights. I welcome the Minister and Madam Secretary of State. We move to the 1st point of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination (exist in particular) The amendment was submitted by Parliament of Goran Mihajlović to Article 3. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Mr. Sluzzard, you have your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16008	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have submitted an amendment to Article 3 paragraph 2: the word "just" is deleted. A stranger in the Republic of Serbia, in accordance with international agreements, has all the rights guaranteed by the Constitution and law, except for the rights that only citizens of the Republic of Serbia have under the Constitution and law. We suggest that this word "only" be deleted and thus this Article 3 would be protected by the rights of the person, it could have a more quality comment, although we as the SRS have been commenting on a lot so far. Just to repeat, we have submitted 463 amendments, and that is why we wanted to improve this law on discrimination, in order to do so, and in the end you will eventually accept this law, which is largely against the majority of citizens in Serbia. I'm just going to comment, there are countries where, on any basis, this area is nurtured, that's what we in Serbia know and see, but it's none of our business. We're just concerned that our government considers this area normal.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16009	Thank you. Does anyone else want to follow this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljubomir Kragovic. Mr Kragovic is not here, so he is not in a position to explain the amendment. National MP Srboljub Zivanovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. He's also not in the O.R. The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Nikolic, who is not in the hall. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does Mr. Peric want to explain the amendment? Yeah. Gentlemen, please be quiet, to follow Mr. Peric's presentation, which wants to explain his amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16010	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam President, Mrs. Nada Kolundjia has dared to say that the MPs of the SRS are apriors against such a law. We have tried a number of amendments to fix the text of the law, but even this number of amendments cannot make a quality thing that basically has no reason to do so. Article 3 provides that everyone has the right to be effectively protected from all forms of discrimination by the competent courts and other public authorities of the Republic of Serbia. Remember Article 1. A proposal for this law has been introduced by the new Institute of Trustees for the Protection of Equality. It was probably done for the reason that a number of people, members of the DS, were hired, and one of the SRS MPs in explaining the amendments said the government had not considered the consequences of the economic crisis, and this law is on the agenda. The result of the economic crisis was not taken seriously by the government because a number of ministers in the government, the Deputy Prime Minister and the president themselves said that the economic crisis could benefit us. I have proposed that Article 3(3) be deleted and read as follows: The exercise of the rights set out in this law against the objective in which they are recognised, or with the intention to deny, infringement or restrict the rights and freedoms of others guaranteed by the Constitution, the law and other international contracts and acts. This is an effective amendment, completely accurate and I think we should accept it, because we, MPs of the SRS, are not clouded by the EU and we are able to recognize what is in the interests of the citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16011	Thank you, Mr. Perry. Does anyone else want to follow this amendment? Mrs. Kolundjia, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16012	President-in-Office, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I just want to explain to the citizens what the essence of this amendment is. In the text of the law, it is proposed that the exercise of the rights established is prohibited, and is then listed. The amendment is: no law enforcement allowed. That is the essence of this amendment, so I would really have to say, given that it is a law prohibiting discrimination, the word "prohibited" is more adequate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16013	Thank you. (Dragan Todorovic, from the place: Replica. It's about the MP's group. There was nothing offensive. (Dragan Todorovic, from the place: You interpret whether it was offensive for us or not. ) Please, there was no single sentence, no offensive words. She didn't understand you well? Here you go. (Zoran Krasic, from the place: May I explain.) Neither you nor Mr. Todorovic, one of you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16014	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, what Mrs. Nada Kolundzia said aims to deceive the citizens of Serbia. You are witnesses, especially citizens of Belgrade, as the yellow company does and how the DS does it. Why do we want to be precise? So after 10 years, we don't get bills, allegedly for unpaid interest, unpaid utility, some bills no one can prove alive today. What kind of state we live in, in which the law stipulates that after a year these debts become obsolete, and today Dragan Gilas is sending us bills and there is no family that has not received, alleged accounts and debts from 99, 2000, 2001, etc. What security as citizens of Serbia can we expect from you? Absolutely nothing and that is why we are trying, precisely in this law of discrimination, to fight for the rights of our citizens, not to be discriminated against and to abuse the law in such a harsh way and to rob citizens of Serbia, because the budget is not being filled with your guilt because you accepted the SAA. You don't have any money. Right, eat and drink. You are now robbing Serbian citizens, allegedly asking them for some outstanding debts. And where's the evidence? In which state can someone put out an account without any evidence? He simply asks and says – if you pay this amount, we will not charge you the interest. What kind of state is this? You rob mercilessly in every way possible to the citizens of Serbia, and it slowly shows that the end is coming to you, and that end, as our people say, is similar to your color, but with sticks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16015	Mrs. Kolundjia, by amendment, within the time of the ZES, a parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16016	The esteemed chairman, except that Mr. Todorovic misused the law and did not speak of the amendment, he claimed at the same time that I was deceived because I read what he wrote. Therefore, the basic text of the law states that the exercise of the rights laid down by this law is against the objective in which they are recognised or intended to deny, infringing or restricting the rights and freedoms of other guaranteed by the Constitution of international rights. The amendment reads - instead of "prohibited", "not allowed" to exercise the rights set out in this law, contrary to the objective. What I'm saying is that deception is simply not something that stands. I also read the text of the basic law, and the text of the amendment, and I said why I think the word "no" is a better word than "not allowed," more precisely. And it absolutely did not give anyone the right to replicate or to think that I had misread something. I didn't interpret anything. I read what was written. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16017	Thank you. Mr. Vladan Batic has a word. Here you go. There's no basis for replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16018	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Minister, I would not like to engage in the controversy started by Mr Todorovic, but I would like to ask whether discrimination is prohibited or not what is happening with more than 100,000 reservers? So, is discrimination when 25m euros, or two billion euros, are paid for 10,000 Toplici County reserves, and all other months have to be fucked from unloved to unloved, deceived and deceived by lawyers, and cannot achieve the principle of equality and equality of all citizens in front of the Constitution? That's what discrimination is all about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16019	Thank you. There's no basis for replication. Mr Batic said not to continue with something you started. Prime Minister Vlad Milojkovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does Mr. Milojkovic want to explain the amendment? Yeah. ) The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Here you go, Mr. Milojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16020	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, based on article 147. I have tabled an amendment to Article 3(3) of the Rules of Procedure. Article 21 The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia on the ban on discrimination reads: All are equal before the Constitution. Everyone has the right to equal legal protection, without discrimination. Any discrimination shall be prohibited, directly or indirectly, on any basis, and in particular on the basis of race, gender, nationality, social origin, birth, religion, political or other beliefs, culture, language, age, mental or physical disability. The government, proposing such a law, did not take into account the customs that exist in one environment and the moral understandings of a nation. If the government had sincerely wanted to fight any kind of discrimination, it should have been prescribed as a criminal offence, to provide for adequate criminal sanctions and to deal with the issue of discrimination as a criminal offence by a competent court in criminal proceedings. So criminal justice is the best solution to protect Serbian society from discrimination. The European Union imposes laws on you, and it violates human rights on any basis. An example of this is The Hague tribunal and Dr Vojislav Seselj, who has been denied all the rights that belong to him.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16021	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure was advertised by who: Mr. Todorovic or Mr. Krasic? Both of you. Here you go, Mr. Crassy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16022	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs. Comic, I must admit that in some ways I feel the need for you to take over the Parliament presidency, because you would know how to apply the Rules of Procedure when at least some things are at stake. You know that the head of the parliamentary group has an advantage over the other MPs, and I would ask you to warn the President of the Assembly not to violate the Rules of Procedure. I am reporting under Article 101(1), Madam Chairman, you have violated the Rules of Procedure which is very precise, and as it does give MPs the right to contact if the Rules of Procedure is violated. Article 1 states that if the MP in his presentation at the National Assembly is insulting, this is not the case, of the MP from another parliamentary group, and now says, citing his name and last name or function, or misreading his presentation. I am reporting on this part of the first position of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, because in his previous presentation, Mr Vladan Batic mentioned the name and last name – Dragan Todorovic, who started the previous debate, which is incorrectly interpreted, Madam Chairman. I didn't start the debate at all, the debate began with Mrs. Nada Kolundji, and I volunteered to replicate Nadi Kolundji, because she misread the amendment that was filed by the SRS and what we wanted by amendment to correct the member of the law and to point to all these problems when it comes to the rule of the DS, or dictatorship... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16023	Thank you. It's been two minutes. Mr. Todorovic, in accordance with Article 101, I wanted first of all to say that Mr. Batic did not misread anything. He made a perfectly logical conclusion, and he brought it up. Secondly, in the final position of Article 101, the decision in the cases referred to in this article is made by the President of the National Assembly. Therefore, it is the chairman who assesses whether there are conditions for replication. The replica can't last longer than three minutes. Okay, you didn't do that. I warn you that this time you have misused the Rules of Procedure and that in the future measures will be made. There are no grounds for breach of the Rules of Procedure, or your reasoning is not in line with the breach of the Rules of Procedure, nor is there any breach of the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Krassic, please, you have your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16024	Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, when you violate the Rules of Procedure, you do so masterlyly that you do not only violate the provisions of one member, but a whole series of members. Now I'm taking the opportunity to call on Article 103 of Section 1 and just draw your attention to what it's looking at. You gave the word to Mrs. Nadia Kolundji, who disaved the public above all. Please, Mr. Sreta Periæ's amendment refers to Article 3(3) and to what the Government has proposed, the exercise of the rights laid down by these laws is prohibited. The right established by this law is the right of a damaged person, discriminated against to seek protection, and this is not about the right, as it is interpreted, to prohibit discrimination. The right is equality and equality. A few days ago, I proved to you that she had neither read the law nor the amendments. It's a much better wording 'not allowed', because if there's a "no" formula, then there's got to be sanctions. You, in the provisions on penalties in this law, do not have any sanctions for breach of Article 3(3). What's worth, it's the Democratic Party, the "jaundice", "the cabbage looks, the meat pulls out", one story, the other works. This is the Democratic Party. Dear citizens, I do not disturb your right to participate in the elections and vote, but you too bear responsibility when you round this yellow. When you round this yellow, you get laws like this.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16025	Mr. Krasic, there's no damage to Article 103. Rules of Procedure. The speaker can only talk about the issue on the agenda, so Mrs. Kolundzija was acting, she was actually speaking within the time available to the ZES parliamentary group. I give you a warning because you have abused the Rules of Procedure. I warn you not to throw from the scene, Mr. Krassic. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Popovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does Mr Popovic want to explain the amendment? Yeah. Here you go. Mr. Krassic, I'll give you another warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16026	In front of the SRS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 3(3). The draft law on the prohibition of discrimination, by proposing that this position be changed and that it reads: "No rights laid down by this law are allowed against the objective in which they are recognised or intended to be denied, injured, restricted or abolished by the rights and freedoms of other guaranteed by the Constitution and international contracts". This amendment has a legal and technical redistribution, as regards the proposal to replace the word 'no' in the word 'not allowed', since it is obvious that when you prescribed the text of this bill from some EU Member State you did not take care of the termological correction of the disposition of this legal norm, which only shows that Boris Tadic's regime is illiterate and that he is in a hurry to stamp the laws as bricks, regardless of their technical and essential quality. When I say this, I mean, first of all, minority groups of different gender-determination, which must accept the fact that most of us exist, and that this law recognises their right still cannot usurp our right to free opinion. That free opinion of most of us can best be illustrated through a sentence -- if God wanted to arrange the world differently, he would not have created Adam and Eve first, but would have created Adam and Steve. Tadic's regime is working backwards, changing Eva for Steve.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16027	Does anyone else want to follow this amendment? (No) Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does Mrs. Pop-Lazic want to explain the amendment? Yeah. Mrs. Pop-Lazic, you have your word, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16028	How is it not permitted to exercise the rights set out in this law, contrary to the objective of which they are recognised in order to deny or restrict the rights and freedoms of others, guaranteed by the Constitution and international contracts, I ask you whether the right to work has been guaranteed? Yes, it is. Is the right to strike guaranteed? Yes, it is. What then happened to the workers of the Komgrapa, who yesterday had their warning strike and who today were not all suspended by paper, but were not allowed to approach their jobs to be fired because they did not come to work. You know who bought "Comgrap" and you know for what money, for four million and 300,000 euros, although the value is about 120 million just worth of "Comgrapa" real estate, then the profit payment is made selectively, so not everyone who works gets paid, but those who like the director. 40 people can't retire because they don't pay their contributions. What are these people gonna do? Who are they going to turn to under this law? Are we going to bring this law down to gays and lesbians only or are we going to talk about these crucial things that rock Serbia, or are you afraid to talk about it? Will this trustee address these issues, when even the court has not resolved them in the process of revoking such a robbery privatisation, which is behind which a certain Slobodan Stankovic stands, behind which is a Dodik, and behind which is a Tadic. These are our problems, gentlemen, which we need to talk about today, and we should talk about at all, because these things will happen on the streets all the time (President: I thank you). You have to finish. Unless you're consciously going to the Civil War. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16029	Does anyone else want to follow this amendment? (No) Anybody want a word? Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16030	I use the right of Article 143(2).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16031	Gentlemen of the SRS parliamentary group, I warn you that I will issue measures for disturbing Mrs Tabakovic from speaking to parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16032	Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Serbia, I want to say in the context of a debate on the issue of the rights guaranteed by the Constitution, that the Constitution in Article 43th position. 4. says freedom of expression of religion or belief can be limited by law only if it is necessary in a democratic society to protect people's lives and health, morals of democratic society, freedoms and rights guaranteed by the Constitution, public security, etc. I ask the question - who has defined what the morals of a democratic society are, that it would be otherwise prescribed by the law prohibiting discrimination, especially because in many of the reasons for the amendments tabled by the Forward Serbia Parliament Club, in response to the refusal of the amendment, it is defined as a very broad category and that it cannot be covered by this law. Is there a definition of what the morals of a democratic society is, because for me, as a Serbian and a member of a religious community called the Orthodox Church, the morals are equal to the morals of a democratic society. In that sense, I ask the question is that morale the same? Is it for me? Is this for you as a democratic society and whether the law on the prohibition of discrimination allows you to narrow down the constitutional law, defined by Article 43, without defining the reasons and interests of the citizens. Thank you. During this speech the MPs of the SRS were banging on the benches. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16033	National MP Natasa Jovanovic, who is not in the hall, submitted to the 3rd amendment. (Alexander Martinovic: I want to speak to the Rules of Procedure. ) According to the Rules of Procedure, there were no injuries to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16034	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the scandal is itself, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, that when someone reported to the Rules of Procedure, and that man had no chance at all to explain why he thought there was a breach of the Rules of Procedure, you say -- there was no breach of the Rules of Procedure. You have injured Article 104 when it comes to the dignity of the National Assembly. You can't hear the noise of the MPs of the SRS here, there's an echo of the dissatisfied people you cheated on in the elections. You promised these people...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16035	People's MP, there's no breach of the Rules of Procedure, I give you a warning. Step away from the pay phone, please. Step away from the pay phone, I've given you a warning. [[loud applause of SRS MPs.]] I'll take the next steps, please step away from the pay phone. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by Ambassador Dragan Zivkov. Does Mr. Zivkovic want to explain the amendment? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Zivkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16036	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have tabled an amendment to Article 3 of this Law, protected rights and persons in Article 3 covering a third position. My amendment reads that Article 3(3) of this Law, which reads: "The exercise of the rights set out in this law is prohibited against the objective in which they are recognised or intended to deny, injure or restrict the rights of others... "wipes. In response to the Government which I have received that the amendment is not accepted, it explains that the amendment is not accepted for the reason that the amendment does not comply with the purpose of the law and unnecessaryly restricts the protection against discrimination. Ladies and gentlemen, the SRS and MPs who have submitted amendments to the SRS are many amendments because they wanted this law to be withdrawn from the procedure first, and secondly, to repair the law, given that the law of moral things, which regulate relations in one society, absolutely collapses. Mr. Minister, and last time, I asked you if you felt any responsibility – later, when meetings and protests were held in many cities, i.e. Expressing the definition of Article 21 of this Law, where sexual commitment is regulated by this law, and where will absolute people who are other sexual individuals be able to publicly declare themselves, if they accidentally invite you to these gatherings in a unique way to thank you, will you show up at that meeting? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16037	Thank you, Mr. Zivkov. Mr. Milan Avramovic, advertises the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16038	Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, you have violated Rule 27, which refers to Article 100. Now I ask you, as chairman, by which member do you have the right to terminate the Members of the People's People's Parliament, which is a violation of the Rules of Procedure? If he hasn't fulfilled a two-minute bonus, on which basis... (Dragan Todorovic, a raider from the scene: Mrs. Gordana, do not whisper. ) (Employment of the Members of the SRS. Don't throw it away, Mrs. Gordana. Don't disturb me, Mrs. Comic. So, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, the simple question is, by which member of the Rules of Procedure you of the People's Parliament who came out here to advertise an injury within two minutes, you have the right to suspend his exposure for the first minute and take away his word? [[Sagar.]] So this is a common situation, which means it's an abuse of this Rules of Procedure. You do not give us the right to a replica because you say it is your personal assessment, although we are called by name and last name, although it is a misrepresented exposure, although an offended parliamentary group – you do not give us the right to a replica, you do not give us the right to discuss, you limit us for two minutes, and for those two minutes, you steal us consciously. So, you've hurt the Rules of Procedure, Rule 27, and about the dignity of certain MPs from this pay phone, who plead specifically for the church, I'm not going to speak, but I'm asking you to lift this practice, because it's the worst kind of discrimination against SRS MPs, because we can't discuss this law in quality, because you don't allow us to do so with your democratic principles.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16039	Mr. Ambassador, there is no breach of the Rules of Procedure, which stems from the position of the 2nd member you have called upon. In that position, he says - no one can interrupt the speaker or warn him, except the president of the National Assembly, in the cases provided for in this Rules of Procedure. That case is a step away from the agenda. Therefore, in accordance with Article 103(2), I interrupted the Member of Parliament who spoke. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Natasa Jovanovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Mrs. Jovanovic is not here. Ambassador Dobrislav Prelic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does Mr. Prelic want a word? Yeah. ) The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. You have your word, Mr. Flea.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16040	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, before I move on to the explanation of the amendments, Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic, in my best interest to pass on to you, not only to this shameful Rules of Procedure that you have done, but your behavior really concerns me, because I simply cannot believe that these yellow companies could, in this way, influence you to behave like this. This is so much ossion that it's just amazing. You don't let us literally talk here. Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, we are MPs. It is our duty to protect the interests of citizens and everyone, in some way, from their environments from which they come, and you simply do not allow us to do so. It's just amazing, I don't know what they injected you into acting like. I have submitted an amendment to Article 3(3) in which I have proposed to change in the way it is written in the amendment, because this attitude is poorly prescribed by some other person's law and it is quite unreasonable, and with only a few words I have suggested, which are used by the majority of the citizens to whom this bill applies, and if the minister carefully listens to the proposed amendment to Article 3, he will see for himself how much clearer and easier this attitude is now for interpreting all citizens, and not just for professional persons, and that is – it is forbidden to exercise the rights set out in this law contrary to the objective in which they are recognised. Isn't it more logical "contradictive to the cause," as I suggested. You further suggested "or with the intention of depriveing, injuring or restricting the rights and freedoms of others", and I proposed the amendment "in order to disable or restrict the rights and freedoms of others guaranteed by the Constitution and international contracts". It's much clearer and more concrete, and most importantly...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16041	Thank you. Does anyone else want to follow this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Dimitrijevic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Mrs Dimitrijevic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16042	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 3 and suggested that Article 3 paragraph 3 should be amended and read as follows: "The rights and freedoms of others guaranteed by the Constitution cannot be restricted and denied by the exercise of the rights set out in this law. "The proposer of this bill cited among the reasons for the law-making and respect for international standards taken over by ratification of international contracts. The United Nations and the Council of Europe documents are listed. Some of them, such as in the Civil and Political Rights Pact, say that the law will prohibit any discrimination and protect all persons equally and effectively against any discrimination, especially on the basis of race, colour, gender, language, religion, political and any other opinion, etc. Something similar says the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the Pact on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights. In Serbia, however, we are witnessing great discrimination based on political definition and opinion. After the May 2008 elections, based on results, power was formed in all municipalities and cities in Serbia. However, the coalition that formed power at the republican level decided that at local level, the authorities must hold coalitions in the same composition as at the republican level, i.e. that the government is being re-imposed. Slowly in one city at a time, in one municipality at a time, with enormous pressure on the councils, the reflection of the authorities begins. Where will you get a better example of discrimination based on political properties?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16043	Does anyone else want to follow this amendment? Mr. Pelevic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16044	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Minister, this amendment reads "that the rights and freedoms of the other guaranteed Constitution cannot be restricted and denied by the exercise of the rights laid down by this law". That's exactly what this is about, because our Constitution as the highest legal act doesn't exactly talk about these rights, and I'm going to state one of those rights. This is the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, in Article 12-right to marriage, predicts that '"from the moment they become capable of marriage, men and women have the right to marry and to establish a family according to national laws governing the exercise of this right. '"
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16045	I warn my colleagues from the SRS not to interfere with Mr Pelevic as he speaks. I ask the head of the parliamentary group and the deputy head of the parliamentary group to have control over the interference of speakers. Mr. Todorovic, please engage. Go on, Mr. Pelevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16046	Madam President, as far as I'm concerned, you don't have to remind my dear colleagues from the SRS, because their banging absolutely doesn't deconcentrate me, on the contrary, it stimulates me. As far as I'm concerned, you don't have to interrupt my exposure. Mr. Minister, I am aware that this law does not discuss the conclusion of homosexual marriages between men and women, but somehow it seems to me that this law represents one introduction to some next law that would regulate it. That is why I call on the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights, given that in our regulations, or in our Constitution, nothing is provided for in this amendment. Therefore, I would very much like to hear from you whether soon some new law will appear that may also talk about the conclusion of homosexual marriages, and all in order to get closer to European integrations? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16047	Thank you, Mr. Pelevic. The word is Mr. Nikola Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16048	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will use a few minutes available to the DSS parliamentary group to say a few words concerning this amendment and generally for the answers that the Government has given in relation to the amendments submitted by all MPs. The answers are quite shrewd, quite bureaucratic, and most of them are examined in a short sentence that says that the proposed amendment is not in line with the bill or in the spirit of the law. I think that's where the problem lies. Either the government did not want to deal seriously with what the proposed amendments were, and indeed it has quality, or simply, on the other hand, the government intended to reject all these amendments and send a message that this bill itself is the best possible and that it does not need to be changed. I think that makes it one thing that doesn't really need this society, which is that this government instead of being a mediator represents a kind of factor of division in this society. In view of the fact that the task of such a law should be to harmonize the overall relations in society and eliminate a certain kind of inequality, it implies that the formulation of such a law should have included the widest circle of all social factors. So this involves political parties, cultural and scientific institutions, church organisations, NGOs, etc. It seems to me that the government played quite a passive role when it came to organising public debates and that in a selective way, it provided a predicate and draft law for a public debate. That's why it seems important for me to say from this pay phone that no one can have a monopoly on the protection of human rights, but that's the civilizational right of all social segments. Such a superficial approach did condition obvious shortcomings in this bill. Namely, some provisions are indeed not sufficiently in line with constitutional provisions, as well as certain laws that protect and guarantee citizens' freedoms. In certain parts of the law is restrictive and narrows freedoms guaranteed by the Constitution and international conventions, such as freedom of speech, freedom of mind, freedom of conscience. On the other hand, some provisions have been put in question against the principle of religion, as well as certain provisions of the Law on Churches and Religious Communities. I'm afraid the writer of this law has failed to distinguish one very important thing, which is the difference between protecting against discrimination and promoting certain forms of behavior, i.e. setting such forms of behavior as socially desirable. So certain freedoms are favored, which have a discussional foothold in culture, tradition and the social sphere. All this is why the law has caused misunderstandings and misunderstandings. When promoting certain new values, the law cannot and must not bring down some old values, as if they never existed and never existed in our society. That's not why it should surprise the reaction of churches and religious communities. At the request of the churches and religious communities to withdraw this law from the procedure and to be amended and completed, the government reacted rather nervously, with misunderstandings, even by individual ministers and with a mild stamping of the church. So rhetoric resembled old prejudices from a time when the church was completely excluded from society. Just to remind you that the Law on Churches and Religious Communities is just saying that the state will co-operate with churches when they are on the agenda of matters of general good. In the end, I would like to address the issue of introducing trustees to protect against discrimination. It is indeed agreeing and purchasing the administration, although the minister spoke of some redistribution within the existing state administration, but there is another problematic segment, which is to be predicted that the trustee will only start working in 2010. Since this government says that as a state, we tend to come to the White Schengen list in 2009, and at the same time that this law is a condition for coming to the White Schengen list, the question arises whether this law and its application are actually a condition for visa waiver or not, and is that going to happen in 2009? The DSS has also offered an amendment in this regard and suggests that the job is done by the Citizens' Protector, who has both the capacity and the infrastructure to take over this job, and he could do so immediately, since the institution already exists. It seems to me that these powers of the trustees can be felt by the Commissioner for Political Correction, and I don't think we need them in this society, because further divisions are not necessary but rather a kind of unity, especially when it comes to such laws that need to harmonize relations throughout society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16049	Thank you. Anyone else want a word on this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Suleiman Spaho. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is Mr. Suleiman Spaho.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16050	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, Mrs. Slavica, did you hear from you last night or during the day with High Commissioner Olli Rehn? You know why? I spoke to him last night about my amendment. I explained to him that in two minutes I can't say anything, to prove that my amendment should be accepted so that you and my amendment could enter Europe. He said he'd call you. The man was delighted with my amendment and he said – I will order them to accept, Spaho, your amendment to enter Europe. With this amendment, Mr. Rehn said that tomorrow, not in 10 years, if you accept it, you will enter Europe. The amendment is terrible for me, believe me, you just didn't look at it, you didn't look at it. Believe me, he was thrilled when I told him. If you accept, Mr. Minister, this amendment, you will enter Europe, but without gays and lesbians.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16051	Thank you. Anyone else want a word on this amendment? Of course, there was no explanation of the amendments here. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is Mr. Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16052	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam President, I would ask Mrs. Nada Kolundji to read the following laws on discrimination and to no longer deceive the citizens of Serbia as an illegal. Mrs. Kolundjia, you're cheating on the public. First of all, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, from Articles 18 to 81, guarantees the rights of citizens and national minorities, guarantees all those political and civil rights. Except for this law you're proposing, which doesn't matter, nonsense is this, there's a Criminal Code in Art. 128, 129 and 384, then the Labour Act, the Law on Health Insurance and Protection, the Law on Higher Education, the Law on Public Information, the Law on Radio-Difusion, the Law on Free Access... Mrs. Kolundji, listen to this, you're gonna need this because you're not a lawyer when you're interpreting the law. Let your lawyers come out, you've got professional people, let them come out and interpret here. It is not true that there is no guaranteed ban on discrimination in our regulations. The following laws: Law on the Prevention of Violence and Misbehavior in Sports Events, Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination, Law on Obligation Relations, Law on Inheritance, Family Relations, Law on the Procedural Procedure. What do you want to do, prescribe from some regulations that have dwarves from the West and criminals, to write to us here certain laws, and you have 20 laws? Don't do this. Serbian citizens are no longer obliged to suffer this dictatorship. This is a lie, this is a hoax. You've got lawyers, get them out here.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16053	Thank you. It's been two minutes. Please, you want to step away from the pay phone, it's been two minutes, so I don't give you a warning. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Acimovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is Mr. Acimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16054	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have tabled an amendment to the draft law prohibiting discrimination in front of the SRS parliamentary group. In Article 3(3), the words "prohibited" are replaced by the words "not allowed". Constitutional provision referred to in Article 21. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia on the ban on discrimination states: "It is not considered to be discrimination against the specific measures that the Republic of Serbia can introduce to achieve full equality between a person or a group of persons who are essentially in an unequal position with other citizens." This amendment, as well as all amendments to the SRS, aims to improve this legal project, although generally this law should not have been written, since it is not even old European civilizations, Germany, Austria, France, Greece, etc. Since this has come to life in the Netherlands, was it the goal of getting in touch with Holland and Brussels, in order for the Dutch to change their views and allow EU entry? We understand that he's in a hurry in Europe, but he can't make it. If you already wanted to solidarity with some European countries, you shouldn't have gone through these abnormal laws. With this legal project, you will create a large hole that will be shown every day by the sick minds in the streets, squares, parks, schools and all other public places. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16055	Thank you. Gentlemen of the Parliament, you're disturbing the speakers to be heard. I ask Mr Krasic not to comment from the scene, because it interferes with the ability to listen. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Vukovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Mr. Slobodan Vukovic has the word. Mr. Krasic, I'm warning you, I'm going to have to take a step because you're commenting all the time.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16056	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on the basis of Article 147, I have submitted an amendment to Article 3 of this already in the popularly known bill as gay law. Why gay? It is because it is clear to everyone now that only this class, isolated from the rest of the Serbian people, will experience a boom of this content of the law. I refer to other provisions, which is that the amendment proposes to amend that member of the bill in order to strengthen the constitutional provision laid down in Article 21. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia on the ban on discrimination, which reads: "The Constitution and the law are all equal". So they're listed in that provision all the other principles that we need today to defend by this bill. Now I'm asking you, if that's true, why is there political discrimination in the Palilu municipality compared to the SRS, where we've already tried to get our mandates back five times? We've got all the neat papers. The Palilula municipality ignores it, and is backed by the DS, the current local self-government minister, whose home municipality it is. Where then is discrimination on property versus citizens who are now due to pay their bills 10 years back, and is that your promise from 2000 on the arrival of six billion dollars or euros, what was it, for the benefit of this people? Where is there then the protection of that property segment, too, where it's a public secret that their better-to-be citizens...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16057	Thank you. Anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Mladenovic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Mr. Mladenov, you have your word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16058	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the citizens of Serbia, I have submitted an amendment to Article 3(3) to read: "The exercise of the right established by this law is prohibited against the objective in which they are recognised." After the adoption of this law on discrimination, there will be an even wider propaganda of homosexuality, and the number of homosexuals and lesbians will be on a constant rise. There's going to be a fall in birth, new abnormal and unnatural relationships, marriages that can only negatively affect our society. What's the next step? The next step is likely to allow children to be adopted by such marriages. What will teach them - that a normal marriage is between two men, that it is a normal marriage between two women. God forbid things like this happen to us in our Serbia. Imagine a case where children lost their parents because of their premature death, because of some, God forbid, car accidents or something like that, children born in a normal marriage were born of love between a man and a woman, they had a mother's love, they had a father's love. What happens to those kids if they don't have any close relatives to adopt them? She'll go to a home. What happens next? It can happen that from home they are granted homosexual marriages. What's gonna happen to those kids? The parents of those children will roll over in graves, that these children will be raised by two men or two women. That's what threatens our Serbia and threatens this new law. Children must be raised in the spirit of Orthodoxism, children must have both father and mother, and not two mothers or two fathers. At parent meetings, if you continue like this, two fathers or two mothers will come. It's an unnatural phenomenon today, and I hope we won't let it appear in the future. Is it normal for children to grow up in such an environment, in such an environment, and in such marriages? A child who will have two mothers will not have uncles, it would appear to be a new phenomenon in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16059	Time, thank you. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by Ambassador Ognjen Mihajlovic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Mr. Michaelovich, you have your word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16060	Through the alleged debate on this law on discrimination, we have been forced to talk about an absolutely marginally marginal biased group, just to cloud the public's view, to see who is, in fact, discriminated in this Serbia. The entire working class has been discriminated against through a statement by Nebojko Ciric, a man who is the most ordinary Mladjan Dinkic doll, who, in his letter, disabling the Ministry of Justice, a complete judicial structure. It's been discriminated against by the SRS. We had the most convincing case yesterday. With ten years of NATO aggression on our country we've seen everything, we've seen Sutanovec laying garners on the flystones, we've seen even that Cameron Manter, the American ambassador, who, as a hoof at early dawn, comes to plant some kind of flowers, some venice on the monument of children he just killed. What an insolence. At six o'clock in the morning, when there are no milkers, when there are no more cleaners on the Belgrade streets, he comes and sets up his shameful wreath and no one reacts. We also saw a certain Mrs. Hrustanovic, who came to the Batajnic Cemetery and placed a wreath on the grave of little Milice Rakic. We saw everything, but we didn't see that little militia killed in NATO bombings were placed on that same grave by the garters and MPs of the SRS. But that's why we heard first thing this morning that there was a radical flag at a rally held in the Republic Square. Isn't that enough to really be held accountable, with a lot of real arguments, to be discriminated against by the SRS? So much, because I don't want you to interrupt me.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16061	Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Branimir Djokic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Mr. Djokic is not in the O.R. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljubisa Petkovic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Maric. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Mrs. Maric wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16062	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, based on article 147. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I submit an amendment to the draft law on the prohibition of discrimination. In Article 3(3), the word "necessary" is replaced by the word "imposable". The amendment proposes to amend that member of the draft law in order to strengthen the constitutional provision laid down in Article 21. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia on the prohibition of discrimination. Some social groups have begun to compromise other citizens' rights in the pursuit of their rights. That is why it is necessary, not to deny their rights, but to prevent them from exceeding the rights and freedoms guaranteed by the Constitution and the laws. The purpose of this amendment is to deny any possibility for the law to invoke the rights that will be in the function of promoting those categories and models of behaviour that are not in line with the religious and scientific principles governing life. So we're not against depriving rights, we're against limiting the excess of someone's freedoms. Ladies and gentlemen, with this amendment, I have suggested that the word "decrease" be replaced with the word "imposable." I believe that the word "disabling" is more complete and will provide better and more comprehensive protection than discrimination.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16063	The title above Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Mr. Martinovic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16064	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, dear ministers, here you can see for yourself, and before the law on the ban on discrimination is passed, the rights of the MPs of the SRS are drastically violated. As a good knower of constitutional law, I think you will agree with me, Serbia repeats the situation that was in Turkey at the time of the Ottoman Empire at the end of the 19th century, when silence-parliamentarism was introduced in Turkey. As soon as the MP says something that does not match the president of the assembly, which means Boris Tadic, the microphone is turned off. The president of the Turkish parliament used to speak -- tear, which means -- quiet, now it's not very quiet, but microphones are being turned off and MPs are getting warnings. In this assembly, Mr. Minister, the mandates of the SRS have been stolen. The SRS is practically out of the law. The constitution does not apply when it comes to the SRS, laws are not applied when it comes to the SRS, international conventions, all democratic principles that apply in all civilized states, do not apply here if they are SRS MPs. This is where protection is enjoyed by people who took part in the session of the SRS Executive Committee, which was held on 13 June 2008, said the following - Dr Seselj also called ACU Vukic and Dragan Todorovic and demanded that I be an MP. I agreed on the last day, Todorovic is my witness, I handed over the paperwork, against my wish, against my will, but I accepted because I cannot refuse Vojislav Seselj, because of the situation he is in. What I can tell you is that I really keep my word... (President: I thank you. ..... That I never betrayed anyone.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16065	Otherwise, you don't explain the amendment. Time's up. Thank you. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a People's MP, Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16066	My colleague Radulovic, you will tell our MPs, or the MPs of the DSS: I did not mean the DSS in my previous address. Sinonically for all the bad, for the sad, for the poor, robbed, was the DS, so you can tell them that. I have submitted an amendment to Article 4(1). Mr. Minister, listen to this -- they're all equal and they enjoy the same position, says the bill, and I suggest all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, those are words that change. The government says no amendment is accepted for the reason the term "citizen" is narrow. For SRS MPs and the public in Serbia and gays are citizens of Serbia, we have nothing against these people, we have nothing against alcoholics, but we need to treat them. Here you need to pull some parallels, so you think about what, how and how to do it. Two things you wanted to achieve by this law. First thing to bring in the trustee to hire new people. The fact that you said there was going to be redistribution means that so far in those services, in those ministries, there was a surplus, so now you're going to distribute. Like, you won't be seeing any new ones. Another reason is to manipulate religious communities, primarily the Serbian Orthodox Church. It was a fundamental topic for a few days that was being discussed, and now it turns out you haven't even been preparing for an amendment debate at all. You have seen a moment ago, Madam Chairman reminds me more and more of Natasa Micic from her great times, looks at Zoran Krasic, the name of Dragan Todorovic, you occasionally follow something, something you watch there. This law aims to distract the citizens of Serbia from everything that has hit us, as this government of doom has come to the head of the Republic of Serbia and to focus attention on this. Otherwise, not invented by SRS lawmakers, Serbian citizens call the law gay or gay law. I hope it's not a long century. If we could see little what the interests of the Serbian citizens are, or the MPs of the DS... (President: Time) And others wouldn't vote...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16067	Thank you. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Here you go, Mr. Lightning.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16068	Ladies and gentlemen, this amendment should represent a universal principle that, without distinction, everyone should respect and behave accordingly. But with you in power, there is another universal principle, which is that they get the most from those who take for themselves, then those who seek the most, and only what remains for those who deserve it. It's a principle that applies to you. In this country the most applies is the principle that has been escalated with bribery and corruption, with social injustice, with the senseless robbery of the population, and in this law is the excelling and promotion of everything that is against traditional perceptions and values that have been accepted by the Serbian people for centuries. But what's basic is that it's basically all this money. Money is a basic criterion for all human values and in such an understanding of 'equality', I say equality under a sign that does not mean equality, in you is the sanctity between honor and money, the first is the second. The citizens of Serbia are slowly realizing all this, because of the misery and poverty they resent, protesting injustice, and indeed all those who are silent about this law, who cannot bear all this work of this law, remind me of that saying that -- if you want the chicken to carry your eggs, then you have to suffer her clucking. By when it'll be, we'll see.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16069	Thank you. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Radica Jocic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Mrs. Jocic, do you want to explain? Here, you have a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16070	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, honourable citizens, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have tabled an amendment to Article 4(1). The draft law on the prohibition of discrimination, which proposes to amend Article 4(1) and reads as follows: The competent national authorities are obliged to provide everyone with the same protection of rights and freedoms, regardless of the different personal characteristics. Ladies and gentlemen, the point is that citizens cannot enjoy the same position and equal legal protection, as it stands in the first position of Article 4. Proposal for a law prohibiting discrimination, if their state and competent state authorities do not provide them with this provision, which is specified in this amendment. If you really wanted precise and precise laws, you would accept these amendments to the SRS, and you wouldn't reject them in advance. On the contrary, you want laws that have enough space between the lines, so that you can selectively apply them, both when and to which group of citizens suit you. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected citizens, today as children in elementary schools in Belgrade write for their home assignment to Tadic or draw it for their homework, which is usually given to them by the school director, I don't know when his birthday is, it seems that they will soon begin to carry the staff, in many schools in Serbia children every day to worry about whether the ceiling in the classroom will fall on their heads, whether the classroom will be heated, driving them to a central school just to see what the computer looks like. While in some schools teachers have been teaching their children since they were half-tronically treated by the authorities...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16071	Thank you. Time's up. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Popovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Do you want a word? Here you go, Mr. Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16072	In front of the SRS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 4. The draft law on the prohibition of discrimination, by proposing that the position of the 1st member – all are equal and enjoy equal positions and equal legal protection, regardless of the personal characteristics – be changed by saying – Public authorities are obliged to provide everyone with equal legal protection, regardless of differences in personal properties. We Serbian radicals do not question the fact that they are all equal and enjoy as such the same position and equal legal protection against the institutions of the Republic of Serbia, regardless of any personal property that characterizes them. With this amendment, we specify who is obliged to provide citizens with equal legal protection, regardless of the differences, because it is the fact that in terms of the provisions of this law it cannot be a fund of Natasha Kandic, or anyone other than the official competent state authorities and institutions established in Serbia by the Constitution and law. As a result, through this amendment, by amending Article 1, we say that this is the sole obligation of the public authority. What is a public authority, the authors of this law themselves defined it in Article 2. The draft law, which states that the term ‘public authority’ means a state body, autonomous province body, a unit body of local self-government, a public undertaking, an institution, a public agency and another organisation entrusted with the exercise of public authority, as well as a legal entity established or funded in general, i.e. in the predominantly part of the Republic, the AP or local self-government. By accepting this amendment, the state will assume on its own the obligation and care it has so far had under the Constitution, and on its behalf it is constantly doing... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16073	Thank you. It's been two minutes. Does anyone else want to follow this amendment? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16074	Honorable MPs, respected Serbian citizens, respected ministers, are increasingly facing discrimination against old people, and therefore the SNS believes that the way of achieving and protecting the rights of old people should be governed by a special law. For the sake of effective fight against discrimination, this law governing general conditions, measures and instruments for the protection of citizens from any kind of discrimination, establishing categories of persons and certain cases under which discrimination is conducted. One of the discriminations most often and harshest is discrimination based on the age. This kind of discrimination has been widespread in the Republic of Serbia, and no other act has been explicitly and comprehensively sanctioned so far. Older faces don't get accepted. There are rooted prejudices against them, and as a social phenomenon, they spread easily and rapidly. It penetrates all spheres of social reality and is very much represented by us. There are more and more old faces in the Republic of Serbia. They see continued, unhidden and hidden discrimination in the case of the involvement of older people in work-active employment processes, despite the fact that they have vast and valuable experiences. The economic situation of old people is very bad, both in the category of work-active ones and in the categories that have ended their working lives. Given that this category is not protected in an appropriate and comprehensive manner, it is necessary by special law to establish the types, cases, forms of discrimination, to provide for a special authority, procedure and responsibility to protect against discrimination in the future development of a uniform system of prohibition of this type of discrimination. Thank you. During this speech the MPs of the SRS were banging on the benches. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16075	Thank you, Mrs. Miladanovic. Ambassador Dobrislav Prelic submitted to the 4th amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Here you go, Mr. Flea.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16076	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic, there is very little time to explain the amendments. I was really trying to explain the amendment, but I just don't have time in two minutes. All this stuff I've prepared, I'll leave it to the minister, because I can't fit in in in two minutes. May he also try to see if he has the arguments that, although I doubt it, he will accept some amendment from the MPs of the SRS. To the greatest discrimination, the harshest, above all, MPs of the SRS are exposed. Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, the number of votes we received in the elections is above all an obligation to present everything we are not satisfied with how this government works and the majority of the assembly works, and above all to bring problems to the Serbian citizens. It's just impossible for us. First of all, by applying this dictatorial Rules of Procedure, where collectively, on a few occasions, you managed to complete all the MPs of the SRS who are currently in the hall punished. Then you punished the president of the parliamentary group, the deputy president of the parliamentary group. I don't know if it's an example, but I just don't know when there's a collective responsibility, that it gives you the right to do something like that, but obviously you can do anything, and since time is running out, I'm going to start a bar, so I'm going to leave the minister to see what I wanted with this amendment. Unfortunately, I probably don't have time, Madam Chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16077	I thank you, although you haven't spoken, of course, about the amendment. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Dušanka Plecevic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Mrs. Plecevic, you have your word, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16078	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 4(1). This attitude is: They are all equal and enjoy the same position and equal legal protection, regardless of their personal qualities. My amendment changes the position of this member and says: Legal entities have an equal position in the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, regardless of their personal properties. These changes make it clearer to define the term - everyone to whom this member begins. Instead of the idea - everyone, puts the term - legal entities. The legal entity is by definition a person with legal capacity, which consists of being able to bear rights and obligations, so they are legal entities and natural persons, i.e. People, and legal persons, i.e. organisations with legal capacity. Therefore, the legal entity is a more comprehensive concept and an appropriate principle of equality. In addition, this article speaks of equal legal protection regardless of personal characteristics. The bill does not clearly define the concept - a personal property, but lists the characteristics, characteristics, specificities of appearances, methods of association and organisation, as well as objectives. I think there is room for this concept to be specified more precisely, so that legal entities would not be mistaken that any conduct in accordance with personal capacity is not contrary to Article 3(3). It's a bill of law. In other words, any treatment of personal property does not mean that anti-discrimination is also anti-discrimination. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16079	Thank you. Mr. Gojko Radic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16080	When we talk about the law on discrimination, Mr. Minister, then at least you had to have so much hearing and to install one member to deal with fighters, disabled and war veterans since 1991 and 1999. If we know that these wars behind us have been minor civil wars and that there are many fighters in the area of the Republic of Serbia who are classically discriminated, I will only give you a few examples that should be very concerned about the public, if not the public, then at least the Government of the Republic of Serbia. What's going on? We had the Law on Citizenship and we then warned the Minister of the Law on Citizenship, that persons from Republika Srpska and Republika Srpska would be in a backward position, i.e. There will be restrictions on obtaining citizenship, that the law is only for the citizens of Montenegro, then the minister reacted very loudly, went out and objected, and said it was not true. Here's a classic example. When the Erdutic Agreement was signed, then we had certain persons who were responsible for their actions committed in prison in the White Manastir were transferred to the prisons of Sremska Mitrovica, Sombor, Subotica and elsewhere. It's 73 faces. What's going on? The persons served their sentences and became full citizens, served what they were punished for. Those faces can't get citizenship. When they file all the paperwork, when they're finished, they hand over, then the national security check out to the citizenship department, stop, stand in the drawer and faces, and day and day have no right to citizenship, and they're completely disproved, they don't have any documentation, they can't go out on the street to legitimize. If that's how it happens, if those faces aren't our citizens, if they can't get our citizenship, then then the services of that time kidnapped those persons, foreign citizens from the White Manastir. How are those faces in Serbia day and day? Why can't those faces get citizenship? I would like, Mr. Minister, for this law to take into consideration and for this classic discrimination of the person to be taken into account, that they finally become full citizens of the Republic of Serbia and that they can achieve, if anything, at least have documentation.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16081	Thank you. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does Mr. Jeremic want to explain the amendment? Here you go, Mr. Jeremiah.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16082	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the respected citizens of Serbia, and this amendment, which I am on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, has submitted one of those 456 to whom we have tried to point to the absurdity of this bill, which is in the assembly procedure. What is the biggest problem is that such a law will not be implemented in practice and that the biggest problem is that to a large extent it offends and traditional moral understandings, not only of the Serbian people, but also of the citizens of Serbia, as well as of members of traditional churches and religious communities. What I'm going to use this opportunity to say is that there have been different conditions to fight discrimination honestly, and this proposed law will not only reduce discrimination, it will encourage it. One of the most difficult forms of discrimination is perhaps the city government's decision on how to settle citizens' debt to Infostan. You should all know, therefore, that it is also known to the public, that it is not the SRS' fault that, once by an unreasonable decision, the Government of the Republic of Serbia on unilateral application of the SAA has caused a deficit in the cash register of about 300m euros and now in every way possible, and this is going on the back of Serbian citizens, it is trying to compensate for the deficit that it has made by its own decision and produced. These are forms of discrimination that are not contained in such a bill, which we point to, and therefore we believe that the whole bill is not good and that it is embarrassing that it was in the congregation procedure at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16083	The word is Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16084	I'm using time from Article 143(2). I am talking about an amendment that aims to regulate the same right to protect everyone, or from all forms of discrimination. I will abide by this right of all to have equal rights, which you say the basic purpose of the law is something else and that in fact all citizens are equal before the law. I ask the question – are the people of Kosovo and Metohija equal to those of the law, as are all other persons in every respect? I claim that there is discrimination between them: both from state authorities, and from the works of citizens who call them Shiptars, they live in camps that are before camps rather than camps, where they get bad food, have difficulties in hiring, resolving housing issues, health, social and other needs. I really think that, in order to ensure their equal protection against the law, that category of unfortunates, who have not contributed to anything, would need to be protected. In this place, I would like to ask – is it true that Vice-President Krkobiæ sent a letter to the Refugee Commissioner asking that the rights of displaced persons be limited to health care? I thank you all, and I ask you to take care of the category of persons who are really threatened and who are not protected by this law. During this presentation, SRS MPs banged on the benches. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16085	National MP Dragan Zivkov submitted to the 4th amendment. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. Does he want a word? Here you go, Mr. Zivkov. Gentlemen, I have information that Mr Sulejman Spaho and Slobodan Vukovic have sound resources that interfere with their work. I'm asking you to keep all of us together on the dignity of the Assembly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16086	Ladies and gentlemen, I have tabled an amendment to Article 4 of this Act, to amend attitude 1 and read as follows: "Legal entities are equal and equal in front of competent state authorities, regardless of differences in personal properties". This amendment has already been explained by fellow Members of the SRS in a manner identical to mine and I would not stick to that explanation. (President: Mr. Suleiman, please, Spaho, do not disturb the speaker. I'll give you a warning if you continue. Here you go. ) The government has explained that the amendment is not adopted for reasons that the amendment does not comply with the purpose of the law and unnecessaryly restricts the protection against discrimination, binding it solely on public authorities. Given that the Government has no intention to accept any amendments to the SRS, I would ask the assembly majority in the voting day to, with our explanation and with the explanation of all other amendments submitted by the SRS, in a way to accept the amendments, so that the law could be corrected in some way, which regulate the amendments in Article 4(1), as is my amendment. Mr. Minister, here's for who knows which time the SRS is trying to convince you, as well as in the debate in principle, that this law is withdrawn from the procedure, since the SPC, the Catholic Church and all religious communities have raised their voice against this law and we believe that the law should be withdrawn from the procedure. Since you have no intention of doing so, you will remain a remembered minister in the history of Serbian parliamentaryism and in the government that you have passed a law...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16087	Thank you. It's been two minutes. Mrs. Radeta advertises the Rules of Procedure, and then Mr. Suleiman Spaho.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16088	Mrs. Djukić Dejanovic, I am reporting on the basis of Article 27 and on Article 104. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. You are a People's MP, and you are obliged, like all the other MPs, to address the other fellow Members with respect, and special weight has the fact that you are the president of the National Assembly. You were just before the People's Messenger to Mr. Suleiman Spaha, from that place, saying, "Mr. Suleiman." You can't treat MPs that way. I volunteered to intervene because it wasn't the first time. The other day, Mr. Milan Avramovic reported that he is speaking according to the Rules of Procedure, because one MP from G17 plus informed Serbian citizens that this law, which is today on the agenda, was adopted by all, even said "the Kosovo Assembly". Of course, a man volunteered to intervene, because you didn't, and you should have. You told him, "Mr. Milan, Mr. Milan, wait for Milan." I know that you are neither a personal friend nor an aunt and that you cannot act like one, and even if you are, you must respect him from there. When Mr. Dragoljub Micunović spoke and addressed only Master Alexander Martinovic, you are very condescending: "Here you are, Professor, thank you professor." When it comes to Mr. Dragoljub Micunovic, and when Master Martinovic reported to replicate, you found that there was no room for replicas. From the scene, you said, "Wait, Alexander, wait, Alexander." It didn't occur to you...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16089	Thank you. It's been two minutes. There's no breach of the Rules of Procedure. I did at one point say "Mr. Suleiman, Mr. Spaho", so I said "Mr. Spaho". Here you go, Mr. Suleiman Spaho. There's no breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16090	Article 104. Most likely, Ms. Slavica, if my name wasn't Spaho Suleiman, or if my name was Dragan, I wouldn't get this much punishment – that's discrimination here in this assembly. A political idiot came to you and told you that I had something in my pocket. How can you trust someone who betrayed all of their own? He's coming here and he's about to kiss your laps. You trust a man here too, Mrs. Slavice, I have a family and every time you remind me, someone in the family asks me why. Let's understand once, what have I done so much that you're punishing me? I spoke to the lady yesterday to help her, Mrs. Gordana gave me a warning. You can warn me as much as you want, you won't do anything to me. I know who I am and who I am and who I follow. I will not follow these traitors. He came here to complain, so how? What kind of man do you think he is? Come on, explain to me what he's like. You're comparing him and me now. You can't wait for a traitor to come and tell you here. Let me tell you something, you'll always have more confidence, Mrs. Slavica and Mrs. Gordan, not in me, but in what he came to you. I'll never come to complain to you. Please, let me go and don't bother me here anymore. Let me go once. I don't have that device, I have someone else, I'm going to show you, I'm going to show you, I'm going to show you what I have - the blue, Serbian Radical Party (shows the light battery), here it is, look.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16091	Of course there's no damage to the Rules of Procedure. Please don't violate the dignity of the assembly. [[Applause]] According to the Rules of Procedure, he wants the word Mr. Nikola Savic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16092	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Chairman, in accordance with Rule 100 of the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, and on Article 105, I am advertising the violation of the Rules of Procedure. I would remind you that Rule 105 of this Rules of Procedure refers to maintaining order in the Assembly. In fact, this maintenance of the order involves not only what moves and views SRS MPs will have, but keeping order primarily implies that the debate is conducted in order. You were obliged yesterday, or the day before yesterday, to deliver all MPs, and in particular to the MPs of the SRS, the order in which the MPs will come out for the amendments. We, not today, not until this moment, have received this order, and simply none of the MPs of the SRS know who will, when it comes to the amendment, and that is the basic order that you hold here. I believe that you have committed a brutal violation of the Rules of Procedure, and I ask you to deliver it to all MPs as soon as possible, both the SRS and the other MPs, the order in which we will go out for a pay phone, so that no one will come out because of some personal needs outside this room, and his amendment is passed and is not in a position to defend it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16093	There's no breach of the Rules of Procedure. Since yesterday all the heads of parliament's groups received the order of amendments, therefore you did not speak the truth or are not informed by your head of the parliamentary group. Please, so all the heads of the parliamentary groups were given the order of amendments yesterday. Therefore, there is no harm. I warn you. Mr. Slobodan Vukovic has a word for the Rules of Procedure. [[loud applause of the MPs of the SRS.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16094	Ladies and gentlemen, Madam President, I had to report from the breach of the Rules of Procedure. You mentioned my name here and you said I had something. I didn't understand what. I've got a lot of things, but what you mentioned, I probably don't. I've heard the pigs here many times today, but it has nothing to do with me. I heard some sounds come out there. Some sounds are heard and I'm interested, which is why you said here, in front of the entire congregation, in front of the whole public, that I have something. Tell me how you found it, I'm very interested in it. They say, "Bia." If it's BIA, let it be BIA. [[The speaker was turned off by a microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16095	Since you didn't say which member of the Rules of Procedure was injured, I give you my warning. National MP Milovan Radovanovic submitted to the 4th amendment. [[Applause]] Please let us work. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Here you go, Mr. Radovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16096	Madam Chairman, it is difficult in this atmosphere, for which you are guilty and responsible, to work for the benefit of citizens and to improve the text of the bill. On behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 4(1). Proposal for a law prohibiting discrimination. This view of the bill reads: "All are equal and enjoy the same position and equal legal protection, regardless of personal characteristics". The text of the amendment that I tabled on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group reads: "Article 4 paragraph 1 is amended and reads - legal entities are equal, regardless of differences in personal properties". If we start from the fact that legal entities are legal and natural persons, my amendment is qualitatively and termnologically improving the text of the law, except that the amendment should have added the words "in personal and other properties", because I guess the natural person has personal properties, and certainly legal persons as legal entities. Legal persons may have other properties, but not personal. So, if it's only natural persons that can be referred to as "personal qualities", and if it's legal entities and legal persons, then it can be talked about other properties. Of each form of discrimination, the most effective legal protection is criminal and legal protection. Here, MPs of the SRS often mentioned this need for legislation, however, regardless of the bill that stands, the proposing representative did not respect those criticisms.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16097	It's been a while. Thank you. Mr. Pelevic wants a word on this amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16098	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, the respected citizens of Serbia, the amendment is, as far as I'm concerned, acceptable. But here are two things that can be interpreted differently. Personal properties are one very broad term and not all legal entities, unfortunately, are equal, as it says in this amendment. I'm going to say something about wartime military disableds and war veterans from 1991 to 1999. Unfortunately, we have several associations of military disabled and veterans in Serbia. We don't have one association here either. However, one association is called the Association of War Peacetime Military Disabilities of Serbia. It counts about 100 municipal committees across Serbia and 35,000 wartime military disableds. Personally, I don't think these people are even in any way. They are in many things equal to the disabled of other properties, but there are some specificities that are very important. One of them is that they also want national recognition, but also compensation for damages. Since many sports workers, cultural and public workers, of course fully deserved, received national pensions, could it not be understood in this law that wartime military invalids also have the right to protection against discrimination, i.e. to grant national recognitions and compensation for damages? We already have a law that speaks of the protection of disabled people, however, there is not a single sentence in it on the protection of wartime military peoples. Also, in this law, one member speaks of the protection of disabled persons, persons with disabilities, but there is no attitude, not one single sentence about wartime military people. That is why I am saying that this should be taken into account, because wartime disabled people are asking only to be recognised for their fight, to participate in the defence of Serbia, the Serbian people and Serbian territories, and in particular they want and seek children of fallen warriors for the freedom of Serbian territories. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16099	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16100	Why did you turn me on right away, I didn't even get to the pay phone? I'll give you those few seconds, but don't, please, respect the dignity of the assembly. (President: You don't have to, go ahead. I'm advocating an injury to article 195, which is about the government's representation in the National Assembly. Don't count this time as I quote. He says: The right and duty to represent the Government in the National Assembly when considering all issues under its jurisdiction has the Prime Minister. Item 2: The Government shall determine the members of the Government representing it on a specific issue on the agenda of the National Assembly session, or session of its committee. There is no better example than this case, that today we are considering this law on discrimination in particular, that the Minister of Human and Minority Rights who sat here ten minutes ago, I was counting, we were correct, that he had now come out, what our people would say, for himself, and that he would come back, however, obviously that is not the case and this is how he humiliates the Assembly, humiliates the MPs who go out to discuss the amendments. Because his role, among other things, is that at a time when MPs explain their amendments to accept these amendments eventually. The current minister's procedure tells us that he not only does not appreciate SRS MPs, that he does not appreciate the Assembly at all, that he simply does not appreciate Parliamentism or democracy of the type at all. And that's the man who advocated his time to take a mandate from the MPs. That's amazing. The former Constitutional Court judge advocates breaking the constitution in the worst possible way. It's about yellow terror, it's about you, it's about you robbing citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16101	It's been two minutes, Mr. Todorovic. Thank you. There's no breach of the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Secretary came out for a while. Madam Secretary of State is here to pass on all the contents that may have been brought here in the meantime. There's no breach of the Rules of Procedure. Otherwise, the quote goes in at the time, according to the amendments and additions of the Rules of Procedure, so it enters into the time considered, so you were in two minutes and speaking. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Jadranko Vukovic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Mr. Vukovic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16102	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in front of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 4(1). The proposer of this law in Article 4(1) says that they are all equal and enjoy the same position and equal legal protection, regardless of their personal characteristics. In the amendment that I tabled in Article 4(1), I propose that this change be made and that instead of "all are equal" it says "citizens are equal and enjoy the same position and equal legal protection, regardless of their personal properties". Explanation of amendments - Amendments are proposed to amend that member of the draft law in order to strengthen the constitutional provision laid down in Article 21. The Republic of Serbia on the ban on discrimination, which reads: "The Constitution and the law are all equal. Everyone has the right to equal legal protection, without discrimination. Any discrimination is prohibited directly or indirectly, on any basis, and particularly based on race, gender, nationality, social origin, birth, religion, political or other belief, property, culture, language, age, mental or physical disability.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16103	Anyone else want a word? Mrs. Jasmina Milosevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16104	Dear Presidents, the Presidency, the Honorable Ministers, representatives of the Ministry, fellow MPs, the three JS MPs will not vote for this law and that the people who really should be protected by this law, they want it for individual members, I am not running away from it, these are people who really deserve protection, I mean women, children, people with disabilities, people who are different in faith and skin color. I want to explain what it is in this law that, to say the least, irritates us and makes us feel that some items are not suitable and are not in place in this law. It is already in Article 13 of this Law under heavy forms of discrimination that the following items include both sexual commitment and sexual orientation. I'm simply asking why would anyone without a question point to their sexual commitment? Is there a social or cultural need for such a thing or is it definitely a matter of individual's intimateness? Is that something that still refers to an environment that isn't public? I don't know, I may be deluded, but that whole story has become gay, LBG, anyway, today is not a commitment, it's become an occupation. I find it totally unnecessary to constantly highlight your own sexuality, and without question, which just wants to cause some reaction. Unfortunately, fortunately, however, today can only be animosity. The questions of all the items concerning discrimination in this article really refer to a space defined by a public place, and in this own sexuality is not something where it belongs in public spaces. Do not ask us to admire the attitudes that are completely contrary to our moral impulses, one, for the essence of that attitude and the vision of our morality may not be at the height of the time in which we live. I don't know, but it's just that our criticism isn't directed against someone's different moral attitudes, we're just criticizing because we see the possibility that they're definitely in the opposite of maybe with our Christian views on the world, which is still the root of all of us, if I'm not mistaken. As for one debate in principle, we had the opportunity to hear if all controversy should be punished. I'm asking if any controversy should be put into law? How many are there? Does everyone need a special law? Is this thing that we're protecting Article 21 of one controversy, we're packing it into the law, what's going on with us as a society? We experience catharsis, we become "in." That's the part that's not clear to me because you can't make a law with a member like this when you have to understand and consider the mental set of our society. I'm not going to say that we're mentally still in feudalism, but it's certain that we're not even in front of Europe for some of their understandings, to say liberal concepts about morality. It often happens that we are misreading ourselves and we understand, however, when it comes to serious things, such as this law, we need justice, but that justice must not be against the inner voice of our taste, which makes our conscience. We don't have to directly connect morality and conscience, and we can, depending on which side you're looking at. Why would they even slave for modern ideas today, why would they slave for trends, if they were just opposers of our morality, of our taste and of our conscience? Simply nature and natural processes are our buchar from which we learn life, but literally, and now tell me that in the exact same plane I'm going to put something which by nature things, naturally, essentially, are not natural with something that's natural by nature. It simply irritates this moment of imposing something that is essentially not natural and putting into the same plane with something that is natural. It's certainly not "jing" and "yang", it's not the unity of the opposite that nature defined. Indisputable is every citizen's right to privacy and sexual orientation, it's absolutely undeniable. However, I can interpret this 21st member in the following way. How do I know, when I don't see it here, that maybe this member of the law isn't protected by some kind of deviant form of sexual commitment? I can't know that. We know that there are such species that are legally punishable. What does that mean? What's the difference between a gay parade or a paedophile parade, a necrophile, and a zoofil? They don't do anything, they don't do anything, they express their sexual commitment, their attitude towards something. There's a thin line on whether people with both deviant sexual behavior and commitment may in some way be able to subdue under this Article 21 at some point to be protected. If you're saying it's only about people who have a different sexual commitment in order, however, I'm saying that people act differently when someone doesn't have the same attitude they do. We can see that on the Quiri site these days. We see how they expressed their attitude toward someone who doesn't feel the same way they do. Whether they're human, they're four, they're not even five to be grammatically human, I wonder if the money that's defined from their budget, 350,000 with them makes them design their own website. Does it serve them to calculate or discriminate classically with people who don't think the same way they do? Wasn't it better if we had just defined that money, on their media campaign, and on the design of their website, we still directed it to people who needed it, to people with disabilities, to the child of a fallen fighter, to some woman, to some free house, it's completely irrelevant? At the very end, in order to not realize that we from JS are completely homophobic, we have looked at this law well and there are other members of the law in which there are certain terms that we cannot agree with, and that is specifically in Article 18 of this Law, you have allowed the word "confident" to be interpreted too widely. That formulation can apply to a lot of things. A lot of things can be undermined by the word confidence, for example, and the creation of some sects, I don't have to talk about how much their execution is. I ask one question - what happens when this personal belief, which we have the right to interpret so in this article, can be in conflict with some of the general interests, and yet we can take it under some credentials that are not public, that is, if confidence by definition has a subjective character, and there is, whether at a given moment after approval of the general public can become both general and recognised, we do not know. What happens if a certain belief defines a discrepancy with a widely accepted and recognized and personal person. We will come to a situation where various forms of organizations that, for example, mimic faith, exploiting the free space that gives them the word "confident," once again enables them to create some harmful processes in society, and they will be preached as confessions of faith from belief. Besides, it doesn't always have to be a question of false faith. Simply, it can refer to the formation of some organizations out of conviction. For example, I can take fascism as an example because it was an organization formed out of conviction. Why not? Convince me that I can't interpret the assurances I've been given. It's a belief organization. There's another thing. Today, there are groups of people who can be based on animosity towards the Roma, according to any other minority group, but can also have their own organization of personal conviction. We therefore believe that you have allowed too wide this article and the attitude of 1st to interpret the word "trust", because it enables the creation of an organization whose association from the wrong personal beliefs can discredit us as a society, and in fact we must prevent the capitalisation of the same. Finally, I wanted to repeat once again that we in the JS know, we believe, the fact is, we need a law on anti-discrimination, but simply because of these items that exist here, that conflict with our moral and religious, whatever attitudes you want, we won't do it. I can only apologize to people because I believe that people who are truly discriminated against, and these are people with disabilities, they're children, they're old faces, they deserve this law, but some members of the law don't work in that way to protect them, they protect some other groups. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16105	Thank you, Mrs. Milosevic. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Mr. Stojanovic, you have your word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16106	Dear People's MPs, ladies and gentlemen, the Honorable Minister, I have tabled an amendment to Article 4(1). Proposal for a law prohibiting discrimination. I suggested that it be changed and said: "The citizens of the Republic of Serbia are equal and enjoy the same position and equal legal protection, regardless of their personal properties". Your proposal, according to which everyone is equal and enjoys the same position, is not precise enough. The Proposer in Article 2 paragraph 1(2) explains the terms "face" and "everyone". What makes you use the word "all" now? Does this mean that Hashim Thaci and Ramush Haradinaj, with all of Naser Oric, are also grave criminals, perverts, equal with the citizens of Serbia? Does this mean that we, Ramush Haradinaj, who was freed by the tribunal's scandalous decision in The Hague, must not publicly call us a murderer, a terrorist, a criminal and a psychopath, even though he is? Does this all mean that a homosexual dressed in the uniform of a nun SPC has the same rights as the priest of the SPC? Do we need to expose children in parks to morbid games of transvestites and perverts, whose only desire is to muddle and humiliate the symbols of our tradition? We don't think it should be allowed. That's why I invite you to accept my amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16107	He has the word Mr. Aligrudic. Here you go. As an authorised representative, you have ten minutes left, and 18 entire parliamentary groups.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16108	I'm reporting as head of the parliamentary group. These amendments cannot be discussed without saying something about the way the government explained the refusal of such amendments. As the amendments are short, which is natural, because they change certain parts of the text, which doesn't require major intervention, so you have short and stupid reasons for the government. A good part of these arguments in these amendments, especially Articles 4 and 5, says in one sentence why it is rejected, that the text offered is quite unnecessary, and that the proposed text of the law is in accordance with the rules of nomothechnics. For those who don't know, nomotechnics is a science that studies how to write regulations, the very technique of making a legal act. Probably the billmaker wanted us to be fascinated by such expressions in response to the amendments, which I believe is, when it comes to the rules of our conduct and the use of Serbian language, unnecessary and extremely unnecessary. As far as other arguments are concerned, and I'm also talking all the time about the reasoning of this member of the law, let's just say, you have phenomenal arguments for Article 20 of this Act or for Article 13, where it was required to erase "birthal identity" as a word in the text of the bill, simply for that reason, I'll remind you, which the government itself deleted "natural identity" in Article 20. In the previous bill, before it was withdrawn from the procedure, it was written "natural identity", and then it was erased, and then it remained in Article 13, and it was explained what difficult forms of discrimination were, besides that famous apartheid, genocide and other things, that "genocidal identity" remained. The problem is that birth identity is not a concept explained in our legislation. We don't know what that means. You know, the human race is also related. What if, say, I want to be a cow and if I say that I am, or some other animal, or maybe some plant or tree, does this mean that this law protects me from the right to call myself whatever I want to be? What kind of birth identity are you talking about? So it's not a full identity, it's a birth certificate. So you didn't define that term. It can be copied from various conventions, legislation from other countries, but it must be taken care of by the spirit of Serbian language, the spirit of Serbian legal language. It doesn't mean anything. We're asking for an erasure, and in the explanation of the rejection of that amendment, you say, "Amendment is not accepted. The amendment is contrary to the purpose of the law and is contrary to the positive legislation of the Republic of Serbia." With what positive legislation of the Republic of Serbia is this amendment contrary, Mr. Chiplic? What are you talking about? How is erasing the term "born identity" contrary to the positive law of the Republic of Serbia? How is erasing the term "born identity" that you did not explain in this law contrary to the purpose of the law? Where in this law do you defend in a special place, pointing out special cases of discrimination, gender identity issues, and how? Nowhere. So, you're not giving these people's MPs, those who have submitted the amendments. The simple question is: how can you have such a relationship? If you had anything more to say about this, it was nice that you wrote it, and you didn't. If you'd written that, maybe we could have a little more thought about it. The same thing applies to Article 20, where we have suggested that the whole thing be changed, that the question of gender change be inserted as a basis of discrimination, and that, then, certain categories of citizens, which are not protected, according to us, the provisions of Article 3(3), which is a general norm about that no one can use the right under this law, and that it damages other people's rights guaranteed by the Constitution and the law. You rejected it and said that our proposal is contrary to the purpose of the law. So that's the way you treated our amendments. It didn't occur to you in that day's break to go to the board of directors and to initiate, as a government, the submission of amendments to include child protection and HIV-infected minors. That's what we were talking about here. That wasn't just me saying, was said by people from other parliamentary groups. It didn't occur to you, but that's why it occurred to you to accept the second amendment that explicitly stimulates that population that is protected by this law of banning discrimination in particular, which has caused the most controversy in the public, and it is about those people who have special sexual orientation or determination, because you, according to the rules of nomotechnics, can't identify yourself between whether it's orientation or determination. Here's your nomotechnics rules. The way you write a member of the law, in fact, you're telling society the following: that something that, I repeat, is deviating, and if it's deviant doesn't mean that these people who have this deviance should be discriminated against, I take great care of what I'm saying, and in that sense I agree with you, you want to declare it, on someone's request, a normal phenomenon, an equal phenomenon. They are equal men and women in their relations and we agree with that, but there can be no essential imbalances here, only there must be no violation of human rights. That's what the point is. That's what you wrote here in this law, and you've done the cheating, you've done it in a very bad way. I repeat, you have had two ways to resolve this issue: by standardising the ban on discrimination in different sectors and areas of life, as has been done so far when it comes to sexual definition in the four laws of this country, which were passed during the government of Vojislav Kostunica. It just means that we have nothing against it, and that means something else -- that what you wrote here is extraordinary nonsense, because if it wasn't, it wouldn't have caused all these reactions that it caused in public. You just wonder what you're even thinking, if you're falling for anything?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16109	National MP Tomislav Ljubenovic submitted to the 4th amendment. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, Mr. Ljubenovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16110	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, to Article 4. The draft law on the prohibition of discrimination, which refers to the principle of equality, I have submitted to his first position an amendment that I have proposed to amend this first position. Article 4(1) reads: They are all equal, they enjoy the same position and equal legal protection, regardless of their personal properties. The amendment that I have made in Article 4 paragraph 1 is amended and reads: Citizens and legal persons are equal, regardless of differences in personal properties. One of the personal features is political commitment or membership in political organisations. The violation of the principle of equality based on this personal property was done to the citizens of Leskovci recently, by coming DS to power. The injury is seen as the end of the electoral will of the citizens of the town of Leskovci, who most of their votes were entrusted to the SRS, which has the largest number of council members in the city's assembly. The DS did everything to come to power in Leskovac, because their intention was to, since they are in power at the republican level, have to be at all costs at local level. They didn't choose funds. The SRS, headed by Mayor Goran Cvetanovic, has started a number of projects and worked successfully on their realization. The government, after only two days, attributes all the results to itself. What genius. Together with Dragan Gilas, the new mayor of Leskovec again deceives citizens, this time the size of the fifth city in Serbia, so that Leskovac may look like Belgrade in a few years, that citizens in Leskovac can have a standard of living as if they live in Belgrade. Again...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16111	Time, thank you. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Momcilo Duvnjak. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Do you want a word? Here you go, Mr. Duvnjak.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16112	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, based on article 147. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I submit an amendment to the draft law on the prohibition of discrimination. Article 4 paragraph 1 is amended and reads: The institutions of the Republic of Serbia are obliged to treat each other equally and equally, regardless of the differences in personal properties. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, instead of today passing and changing laws on privatisation, labour, pension law, health law, we're talking about homosexuals today. I will give you an example of personal discrimination in our municipality of Kruševac, where at the 2006 government session, held on 17 June, was promised by NIP Minister Mladjan Dinkic that Kruševac municipality will receive 4.5m euros for the expansion of the Maydevo water factory in Celijem. The water was needed for citizens of the municipalities of Cicevic, Varvarin and Brus. The expansion of the water factory was not necessary for the citizens of Kruševec, as the citizens of Kruševec have the capacity of 650 liters per second, and the capacity of 1,100 liters per second pipeline. The expansion of the water factory was supposed to be from 650 liters per 1,000 liters per second. So, discrimination against citizens was the municipalities of Cicevic, Bruce, Varvarin and Alexandrovac. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16113	Thank you. The word is Mr. Poscurica.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16114	In particular, severe forms of discrimination also relate to the conduct or failure of the State authorities to promote or conduct discrimination. This best says, in addition to the recapital 6) according to the same article, that despite the intervention we had in principle, the students of Raniluga did not report any abnormalities that last one semester, here they entered the summer semester and continued to be addressed by Dean Malikovic, no one gives them any information about when they will begin teaching in the summer semester for students of the third and fourth years. The meeting with the minister of education was held on 20 March, following a series of written instructions sent by the dean, the dean did not respond because he allegedly did not receive a specific instruction. Dekan Malikovic, with Professor Obradovic, along with his party friend Šuvakovic, held a quite conspiracies meeting, in the presence of someone who was to be considered a student representative. I think they should shut up a little bit. This is a common topic for them, too, but good. (President: Gentlemen of the Parliaments, I warn you to interfere with the speaker. Please, don't disturb Mr. Pokuric. Here you go. ) I guess they are concerned about the situation in Kosovo and the obvious repeated, prolonged, extended discrimination as multiple and particularly dangerous interests, as well as the entire public of Serbia. This is how the current ministry of the state of the Kosovo education system can be found out. Neither the student representative who was there transmitted any information to a group of students in the third and fourth years, who are more than 80, who do not have the right to enroll in the year, can continue their studies, and are in extremely unfavourable conditions because they cannot get the remaining rights that belong to them. An obvious example where neither the trustee nor the European institutions can help them. The noise was very obvious and you did nothing, which is not unusual when the opportunity you chair is, despite the restrictive Rules of Procedure. Thank you. During this speech the MPs of the SRS were banging on the benches. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16115	Thank you, Mr. Pocurica. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Dimitrijevic. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is Mrs. Lydia Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16116	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment that I have tabled to Article 4 is proposed to amend and read: Citizens and legal persons are equal and enjoy the same position and equal legal protection, regardless of their personal characteristics. (President: Mr. Avramovic, you're interrupting, we can't hear Mrs. ) I will explain my previous amendment to Article 3. I was talking about discrimination based on political opinion and commitment, which has become a daily phenomenon in Serbia. I'll explain it based on a few practical examples. With enormous pressure on the councilors in the town of Leskovci, the DS also came to power from its ranks as mayor of Leskovec, a person who was also head of the Jablanic Management District was elected. By law, the district chief should first be relieved of his duties, then published in the Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia and then elected to the mayor. However, DS does not come to mind that it respects the law. Even though he puts the mayor in this way, he places the director's place without proper schoolkeeping. A person who is a philologist, not a graduated philologist, is appointed as the director of the cultural centre, meaning a person who does not meet the law of the prescribed conditions because he does not have a degree in university. A person with a total internship of only 18 days has been appointed as Director of the Regional Guarantee Fund. The DS believes that this is enough to serve as fund manager, for which the current mayor, until just a few days ago, spoke...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16117	Thank you. It's been two minutes. The amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Krstin. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here, I didn't see it. You didn't answer the usual way, by raising your hand.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16118	You know I have a crush on you, so I reckon it's normal for me to answer like this. I apologize to my wife, but what I'm going to do, I have sympathy. I have the right to have sympathy.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16119	Please behave yourself to the pay phone, Mr. Christin. I'll give you a warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16120	You've taken 24 seconds from me. In short, given that I have these two minutes, now for another minute and 30 seconds, to say that Hope Kolundzia has said in her earlier date that this is one of the most important laws in the last five years in this House, but Mrs. Kolundjia, I would ask you, is this law so much more important than the Law on the Rent of State Agricultural Land, where you lost billions of dinars, because the tycoons and the powers didn't pay you in 2008? In addition to all the hard documentation I've brought and the facts, is this law more important to you? You don't care about the changes and additions to the Co-operation Act, about cooperatives, I apologize that you don't know what cooperatives are, but it's another law that will help keep things from happening around the lease of state agricultural land, where just from the "yellow" company, they had a priority on buying i.e. renting state agricultural land. Thousands of hectares, not paid into registers, municipal, in a special account, which went after, knowing that 40% goes to the municipality, and 30% to the provinces, 30% to the Republic of Serbia? These are important laws, not this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16121	Thank you. Mr. Todorovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16122	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I advertise Article 104, where it is said that MPs are obliged to honor the dignity of the National Assembly. People's MPs are obliged to address one another with respect. Mrs. Dejanovic, you warned Mr. Milorad Krstin because he said he enjoyed certain sympathy for you. I have also said several times that I have certain sympathy for Mrs Gordani Comic and not only have I not come across a warning, but I think those sympathys are mutual. Please, it seems to me. I don't have to be right. I'm still staying with my claims. I understand, Mrs. Dejanovic, that perhaps someone, since the law has not yet been passed, a member of the same sex has made an observation, so that perhaps before the law is passed, you will find yourself injured and give a warning, but after the law is passed, you will not have the right to do so either. She won't have the right of a mother to refuse to marry two male or two female, later to adopt children, etc. It's this law, Mrs. Dejanovic, and you can't have double arches. When it comes to Europe and when it comes to yellow, then you can tolerate anything. When it comes to radicals, you can't even have individual sympathy. Please don't, Mrs. Dejanovic. We don't have any sympathy for the way you run this assembly, what terror you exercise over the MPs of the SRS, but it's your political decision and you'll have to do it... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16123	Since there is no breach of the Rules of Procedure, I give you a warning. The 4th amendment was submitted by Parliament member Gordana Pop-Lazic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16124	Mrs. Dejanovic, you have injured Article 104. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, when you allowed the right of marriage to be misread here and when you did not warn the predecessor that at least some act should be read, especially the highest state act to regulate it. Therefore, Article 62(2). The constitution says: Marriage is concluded on the basis of the free consent of a man and woman before a state authority. Perhaps one of you would like men to be able to make marriages with men and women with women, someone at the top of the party, but the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia under marriage implies a marriage union exclusively for men and women.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16125	There's no breach of the Rules of Procedure. I'm warning you, you've misused reporting after the injury. So, I'm warning you. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. You want a word? I've already read it all, look at the stenogram. You didn't hear? The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Do you want to explain the amendment? Here you go, Mrs. Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16126	Dear MPs, I'll remind you of the words of French General Gallo... Did you include me, yes, well. In the late 1970s, representatives of Spain, France, Great Britain and the Vatican estimated that after Tito Yugoslavia they should not exist. As an argument, among other things, language barriers between Serbian, Croatian, Slovenian, Macedonian, Albanian, Hungarian were used. Above all, however, according to Chancellor Kol, breaking Yugoslavia would be a major victory for Germany. Serbs, who would be angry with their countries, bombed, expelled from Kosovo, are now careful, I also potential for this, left without their civilization, meaning those traditional social values, as the basis of their future, should thus be punished, in Germany's view, for their contribution and fighting side by side with allies. The decommissioning of Yugoslavia would allow Germany to repay Croats and Muslims from Bosnia as its allies in World War II. What they started, you see, in the '70s, is what you complete today with this law that you adopt. And not only this law, but also many other legal solutions that you offer us here, to allegedly join the EU, to get a Schengen list, but in fact to destroy everything that is Serbian, which is traditional. So you can't say patriot, you can't say Serb, but you can say gay. Some even allow themselves to call some people here gay... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16127	Thank you, Mrs. Pop-Lazic. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Mr. Jojic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16128	Madam President, Mr. Minister, it's about time, after several days, when we're discussing this gay law to interpret this provision regarding sexual orientation. In public, it's absolutely unclear. What does that mean? Please come out, explain to the professional public. You were the judge of the Constitutional Court. You know, I'm currently in the hands of the Criminal Code, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the Family Relations Act. He's predicting the norm. It's not clear what a delinquent action is here. Please explain to the MPs and to Serbia. Madam Chairman, if you'll allow me just a few words, you have to, you owe me one. As an MP, I have, on behalf of my constituents, right because I'm asked by voters - why do you keep silent when a gay law is passed? Secondly, Serbian culture is 500 years above Western culture. Don't run towards Western culture. The first culture and civilization was created in China, the second in Greece, the third in Arabia, in Babylon, it was created in Rome, it was created in France during the so-called time. Roma, therefore, Russian civilization, Serbian civilization, and German civilization was 500 years late. Do not adopt reverse values, break morale and destroy Serbia and its family.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16129	Thank you. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Ljubisa Petkovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Mr. Petkovic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16130	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 4(1) and suggested that the text proposed by the Serbian Government: "All are equal and enjoy the same position and equal legal protection, regardless of the personal characteristics" be changed and read as follows: "The equality in the Republic of Serbia is guaranteed to all, regardless of personal properties". The proposed text in this amendment is more understandable than the text proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Ladies and gentlemen, on equal footing, I mean all forms of equality found in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. I'm willing to accept the fact that in sexual orientation, we don't all have to be the same, regardless of whether it's a disease or something. However, I am asking all MPs, ministers and you, Madam Chairman -- that by any chance you are head of primary or secondary school, or head of childcare, would you be willing to receive for a teacher, teacher, teacher or teacher in the working relationship of a person who has declared himself to have different forms of sexual deviation? Worse than that, would you in one of those institutions where you would be employed by a person with such a sexual deviation direct your child or your neighbor to school? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16131	Thank you. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Vukovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Here you go. Please pick up if you want a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16132	I haven't said anything yet. Turn off my time. He can't? I'll shorten the procedure. On the basis of Article 147, I submit an amendment to Article 4 that Article 1 is amended and reads as follows: "Legal entities are equal and equal in front of the institutions of the Republic of Serbia, regardless of differences in personal properties". I ask you, then what is this equality, if we let a homosexual professor or teacher point out his proclivities, which you now consider normal, in front of children, where is the equality of parents who must not, if this law is passed, be replicated or opposed to him? Where's that equality, tell me? Where will be equality in political terms today at 14.00 p.m. when SO Palilula again for the fifth time discrimination repels the SRS' request for 12 seats of 19, won by the SRS in the previous elections? Is there discrimination against the electoral will of the citizens of Palilu? There is. That's why everything else here, except for this proposal to profit from gays, is just a colorful lie and a farce. Under this law, you only extend homosexuals.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16133	Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by National MP Pai Momchilov. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Dr. Momchilov, here you go. You have a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16134	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, the MPs of the SRS are persistently trying to fix a decadent law. You think it's something else, but it's not. If the law were decadent, just ask the citizens, so let them plead or, God forbid, if a referendum had been called by chance, you would have seen what the citizens of Serbia would have told you. Article 4 paragraph 1 reads: "All are equal and enjoy the same position and equal legal protection, regardless of personal characteristics". We felt, we submitted a whole series of other solutions that should read this 1st position and I was free to offer this formulation in front of Serbian radicals: "Citizens are equal before the Constitution and the law, regardless of their personal properties". What you wrote, that everyone is equal and enjoys the same position, it's an egalitarian nonsense and I understand, now you're with the Socialists in the coalition, so egalitarianism is there in force as the basic leading principle and then it's possible to apply it. If we are talking about equality, it is certainly a principle of equal distribution, and it does not mean identity. As you wrote here, it may be considered an identity. If it's about formal equality, it's before the law and it includes political rights that are provided, and we have defined it clearly by this very statement. Of course, there is equality of chance and there is equality of results that communists and their satellites advocate. What did you say to me? You've answered us nicely, I'm reading your answers, you're not reading our amendments at all, you're giving pointless answers, you've said nice things like this... You see, this farce can't even explain itself.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16135	Thank you. It's been two minutes. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Žutic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Mr. Žutić wants a word. Here you go. Don't stop your colleague from talking to us.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16136	Dear People's MPs, the government has explained in reason that the amendment is not accepted because it does not comply with the purpose of the law and unnecessaryly restricts the protection against discrimination, binding it solely on courts and public authorities. This is precisely the law that introduces chaos into our legal system, because not everyone can effectively deal with protection against discrimination. Who, besides the courts, can protect citizens and legal persons from discrimination? In the principle debate, I pointed out that influential individuals of Serbian and non-Serb origin, their aggressive vocabulary in the media are now challenging, insulting members of the majority people, humiliating his history, state institutions, state symbols, tradition and culture. Courts don't prosecute individuals who publicly discriminate against the state. We witnessed Chanka's statement, which publicly promotes the Republic, which seeks the constitution. For example, there is a Serbian flag, as in addition to it at public state celebrations, on the state buildings of Vojvodina, some kind of duchy flag is being displayed. The Serbian traditional "God of Justice" anthem is also being discriminated against. It demeans her text by demeaning and insulting all those who speak of Western Serbian countries, about the Serb race. It is forgotten that parts of the anthem mention the protection of Serbian countries and Serb families. Discrimination is being conducted by the media, such as "Politika" in March 17th, in the text "Radical Resuscitation of Great Serbia" -- God save, God defends Serbian countries and Serb gender. All those who criticise the idea of uniting Serbian countries are insulting the state anthem. Most of the Serbian people are being discriminated over the approved visit by Ivo Sanader, who is a representative of Croatian Nazi emigration. Furthermore, the Serbian language and literature are discriminated against, by the capture and abduction of new nations -- Croats, Bosniaks, Montenegrins. As it goes, we may also have a new duke tongue. Discrimination happens these days. This unauthorized group that received...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16137	Thank you. It's been two minutes. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. Here you go, Mr. Avramovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16138	Amendment to Article 4. I have proposed an amendment, I cannot read the current text, it is time for me, with a proposal that says that legal entities are guaranteed an equal position in the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, regardless of their personal properties. So legal entities can be -- a legal person, a man, a firm, an institution, a factory. They should all be guaranteed equal rights before the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. That's not so, that's why I wrote this amendment, first of all, the judiciary is, if we take into account the fact that 90% of the district courts have returned the mandates of the SRS, and only these 5, 6, 7% in Belgrade are not, because there are two judicial councils made up of generally known judges of yellow. When we take that parallel, we see that the judiciary is not doing the same according to all the laws, as these courts in Serbia should do. Another thing, man, will this law make a man undiscriminatory, let's say, in Strpc, if he sees a Shiptar flag at the Serbian church, if he sees an Albanian flag in the Serbian court, will this law give a warning to some Shiptar terrorists that he no longer does so? Will this law improve the situation for all those who, for example, should be employed, and in the coupon, write that they are married, or report to the boss in the coupon, say, that they are in a different state and will the same boss solve this issue in the same way? Will you give a brief explanation, a warning, you can't quit - will that boss listen? He won't. I don't have time anymore, I just wanted to put all the people in the same position in front of the judges, so it wouldn't be a practice like the practice of assigning an SRS mandate.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16139	Thank you, Mr. Avramovic. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Todorovic. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Mr. Todorovic, you have your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16140	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 4. First of all, I read, "They're all equal and they enjoy the same position and equal legal protection, regardless of their personal properties." My amendment reads: "Equality and equality in the Republic of Serbia are guaranteed to all, regardless of differences in personal properties". What is interesting is the response of the government of the Republic of Serbia, where it says: "Amendman is not accepted. The amendment does not comply with the purpose of the law and unnecessaryly restricts the protection against discrimination, binding it only on public authorities' bodies.' I would ask the Minister, Mr. Chiplic, who undoubtedly made a huge contribution to our legal science and legal practice, and before becoming the Constitutional Court judge, which is widely known to our public, and only as the judge of the Constitutional Court, is that difficult and that I can talk about, these volumes will be written, to explain - when we have the public authorities, what are the secret authorities, just that little thing? I know that there are secret authorities -- they're tycoons, they're ambassadors, they're the ones who pressure you from Washington and Brussels, and there's no dilemma. I am aware of the fact that this law will be passed and that you are inevitably going to Europe. I have prepared to make a modest contribution to this journey to Europe, because I know what awaits you there, or unlike some who have been taking off their hooligans in this assembly, Mr. Minister, to give you some of the clothes you will need for Europe. (shows and gives the Minister of Hulachopka pink.) )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16141	Thank you. It's been two minutes. Please finish. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marina Toman. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mrs. Toman.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16142	Ladies and gentlemen, ministers, this amendment proposes that Article 4(1) be changed and, instead of the proposed solution, the new formulation reads as follows: 'Citizens are equal and enjoy equal protection from courts, regardless of their personal properties'. So, the SRS suggests using the word "citizens" instead of the word "everyone." However, the government has rejected the amendment, arguing that it does not comply with the purpose of the law, as the citizen is, as it stands, narrowly within the category of the one offered by the bill. It's a little questionable, in order for a legal person to express his sexual orientation, ethnicity, or religion without counting on it. So the amendment was rejected, even though the citizen was a political entity. This law, if it does not apply to citizens, certainly cannot apply to legal persons. That the law applies to citizens is confirmed by the members of the law, so Article 5 as a form of discrimination states - association for conduct, etc. So, who does that apply to, if not the citizens? On the other hand, Article 6 states that direct discrimination exists if persons or groups of persons are placed in an unfavourable position. Who does that apply to, if not the citizens? On the other hand, I must also point to the fact that the legislator of the law in the light of basic legal institutes and individual solutions states that the basis for the prohibition of discrimination is the principle of equality, because discrimination exists when, pay attention, citizens, and not all, as it stands in this article, are placed in an unequal position due to some personal quality. So it's really an amazing argument - that the amendment is unacceptable, because it is not in line with the purpose of the law, if we have now found that the Proposer claims "that discrimination exists when citizens are placed in an unequal position".
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16143	Thank you. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marko Milenkovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Mr. Marko Milenkovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16144	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to amend Article 4 paragraph 1 and reads: "Citizens are equal and enjoy equal protection from courts and other competent authorities, regardless of their personal properties". And not as the Government has suggested that they are all equal, because this member of the law actually comes directly from Article 21. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, that before the Constitution and the law, all citizens are equal and that any discrimination is prohibited on all grounds. The number of amendments submitted by the SRS of 436 clearly testifys to what our position on such a bill is. When it comes to the equal rights of our citizens, the competent state authorities urgently need to prevent discrimination against the citizens of the Lower Guard at Prokuplje, where a certain privateer Boban Radovanovic, as a subcontractor of the works, brought 30 batins, to force the construction of a regional dump, although the valley of the Lower Guard is only a mile away from Prokuplje, and close to the city health home, near the first rural houses and wells with water. In addition, the winds that blow go from Lower Guard to Prokuplje, which is a devastating fact all over the city. The people, who, along with their children, went out in protest, threatened those same beatings, pulled knives in the presence of the police, but the work on building a dump, which is certainly no place here, did not start anyway. However, the next day is part of the beatings who slept in the sports hall "Zoran Djindjic" in Prokuplje, which testifies to the involvement of the city's local government in the whole case, turned on the auto-waste that...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16145	Thank you. It's been two minutes. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Mr. Markovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16146	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment on behalf of the SRS to Article 4. The first point is: "They are all equal and enjoy the same position and equal legal protection, regardless of their personal properties". Here in this first article, it does not say who is obliged to enable everyone to be equal and to enjoy the same position and equal legal protection, regardless of their personal characteristics. My amendment reads: "The public authorities are obliged to provide everyone with equal legal protection, regardless of the different personal characteristics." The government's reply, I don't suppose this was the minister's writing, was written by some there in the cabinet, because he certainly wouldn't have written such nonsense—the amendment is not accepted because it doesn't comply with the purpose of the law. What's the point of the law? To ensure equality, to stop discrimination. Why is it that the amendment I have submitted, I will quote it again: "public authorities are obliged to provide everyone with equal legal protection", unnecessarily restricting the protection against discrimination, binding only on public authorities? Who needs Serbia's citizens to ensure equality when the Constitution says they're all equal before the law? Speaking of the Constitution, it is a member of the 62nd regulation of the issue of marriage, and in attitude 2 it says - marriage is concluded on the basis of the free consent of men and women etc. compared to a little bit of unspeakable or shushmourish. I'm going back to Article 18. If you've made it possible for the priests...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16147	Thank you. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Vukicevic. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is Mrs. Vukicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16148	Dear citizens, in order not to quote, it's a short time, we've heard all of this, these sentences, like the flossules -- before the Constitution, they're all equal, equal legal protection, no discrimination, etc. I think this is an absolutely empty story. You want to tell me whose protections are protected by minors in the country of Serbia? Yesterday, a 15-year-old girl was raped by a three-year-old girl, so to speak, a hooligan. So we didn't protect the minors. On Facebook, you could read again, a group of hooligans, which is otherwise funded by the Ministry of Culture, the Vaseline for Urosh. So, what are we talking about, what kind of protection? What are we talking about? Today and these days, we are discussing how a marriage between two men and two women should be legalized. I wonder if the Government of the Republic of Serbia will change the Code of Criminal Procedure in a crime related to criminal acts prescribed in Chapter 18, as a criminal offence against half-freedom, in particular Article 178 -- rape, because what is done in the country of Serbia is inadmissible, absolutely. Especially if the face is underage and was raped in a cruel and humiliating way. Please, if Serbia is a legal state, and it should be, the government should give a concrete answer to what is happening. Therefore, I would ask you to shorten the debate on the rights of the same sex and to take care of what happens to the youth. Since a 15-year-old girl was abused and her and her family were destroyed yesterday, so we should also think about the young men who did it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16149	Thank you. Mr. Maksimovic Sasa has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16150	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam President, Mr Minister, MPs of the Progressive Serbia Group – Tomislav Nikolic have submitted a number of amendments to the law prohibiting discrimination. In particular, as regards Article 4, I have to read it because it is related to Article 7, or it is contrary to Article 7 of this Act: "All equal and enjoy the same position and equal legal protection, regardless of personal properties. Everyone is obliged to respect the principle of equality, i.e. the prohibition of discrimination." As for Article 4, I fully agree. However, in Article 7, which speaks of the definition and form of indirect discrimination, it allows discrimination, as Article 7 states: 'Indirect discrimination exists if, because of its personal characteristics, a person or a group of persons is placed in a more unfavourable position by act, action or failure, which is apparently based on the principle of equality and prohibition of discrimination (i.e. now important), unless it is justified by legitimate objectives, and the means to achieve that objective are appropriate and necessary. '"In the further text of the law, no member and not one word has been defined when discrimination is allowed. The great lack of this law, ladies and gentlemen, cannot justify a condition for the white Schengen list, especially since some EU countries do not have this law, or at least do not have it in this form. In my opinion, in Article 7, if it's about Article 5, you left a small door for discrimination, for example. A disabled woman. Let's just say, if the disabled compete for a job and the employer doesn't like the conditions, in this way, it seems to me, that this Article 7 you've allowed the practical discrimination of those disabled. To correct this law, I sincerely hope that the ruling majority will adopt amendments to the SNS, or parliamentary groups, to advance Serbia-Tomislav Nikolic. Thank you. During this speech the MPs of the SRS were banging on the benches. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16151	Mr. Predrag Mijatovic answered. Here, you have a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16152	President-in-Office, honourable Members of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, I have come to the attention of Amendment 4, although I have no amendment to this, but I would like to ask one question to the Minister concerning this amendment. Article 2 states that everyone is obliged to respect the principle of equality or prohibition of discrimination. What concerns me in this whole law, I agree that we're all equal in being equal to the law, we're equal in half, we're equal in sickness, we're equal in all other rights, but I wouldn't agree that we're equal in sexual orientation. What's this about? I think you've completely unnecessarily introduced article 21 into this situation as a coward's egg into this law. Why? It's an emergency to introduce sexual education in schools. In certain schools, and at one point I was teaching sexual education, what orientation does sexual need to have a man who will teach sexual education? Whether parents will accept, regardless of the legal formula, that we are equal, that sexual education teaches a man who has other sexual tendencies i.e. lesbian or homosexual tendencies? Do you think it'll cause a lot of parental edema and what to do in such a situation? If this professor is called for by law, he cannot normally be discriminated against, since the law is likely to be voted by the assembly majority, so he can appeal to the law. But I can't agree, nor do I think that a large number of parents will agree that someone who has lesbian or homosexual tendencies teaches sexual education at school. So I ask you why it was necessary to introduce Article 21 into this law, now at this point, as a cowardly egg to declare it with all other laws of equality? Thank you very much. During this speech the MPs of the SRS were banging on the benches. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16153	Thank you. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Mr. Stevanović has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16154	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I have submitted an amendment to Article 4 and in my explanation that you have rejected the amendment you have written that it does not violate the essence of the proposed member. Some elemental logic states that it might be an explanation to accept, but certainly not to reject my amendment. Of course, it's just a confirmation of what we were saying was absolutely pointless and unnecessary. What can certainly be called a hypocrite is the fact that, by explaining a member of the Fourth Law, you said that here the principle of equality is defined as an imperative. You see, you are talking about the principle of equality today, you who represent executive power, you who have created a completely discriminatory atmosphere in this House, an atmosphere where all the principles of inequality have been promoted and all of this has been reflected in all of the state institutions today in Serbia. For the SRS, the problem of perception of equality today is that you are the ones who make up power, and certainly not the ones who will be bound by the provisions of this law. This law is unacceptable to the SRS absolutely, both religiously and biologically, both morally and from any other aspect, and only to which this law can be brought into contact, i.e. the only thing with which this law is compatible today are the political principles of immorality and debauchery promoted by the congregation's majority or DS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16155	Thank you. Ambassador Milan Škrbic submitted to the 4th amendment. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is Mr. Skrbic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16156	Since time is running, ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, the respected citizens of Serbia, above all, my amendment refers to the part that speaks of the principle of equality. Paragraph 1 of Article 4 of the Law states: They are all equal and enjoy the same position and equal legal protection, regardless of their personal characteristics. I wanted to make a point, and in this amendment, I say that legal entities are equal and equal in front of courts and authorities of the state administration, regardless of the differences in personal properties. The amendment sets out something in Article 4(1) and does not change the essence, but obviously it is not only good because it comes from the ranks of the SRS parliamentary group, and Serbian citizens must know that the amendment proposes an amendment to that member of the bill to strengthen the constitutional provision set out in Article 21. That was repeated by almost all MPs who had amendments. However, I want to inform, above all, you citizens of Serbia, who will eventually be the ones who will judge everyone, including those who will vote in favour of this law. To remind you, this anti-discrimination bill was referred to the assembly procedure without any substantial changes and only the remarks that were relevant to the accuracy of the terms and the removal of ambiguities were accepted. The objections of religious communities, respected Serbian citizens, for which the law was withdrawn last week from the assembly procedure, which would change the fundamental law, were not accepted. Since there is little time, I think it is important to say because of you citizens, disputed provisions on sexual orientation is something that is an international standard, said Minister Rasim Ljajic. You can see that international standards and blackmails are stronger and more valuable than the Serbian people...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16157	Thank you. It's been two minutes. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Elena Christmas-Talian. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is Mrs. Italian. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16158	Ladies and gentlemen, a question for the minister: How will the state, when this law is passed, address the issue of discrimination to which Serbs, Roma and members of other nationalities and ethnic groups have been exposed, who worked in businesses in Kosovo and Metohija, and who have not exercised any right, nor the right to a social programme, because all rights are provided for only Albanian workers? This is due to the absolute irresponsibility and lack of interest of the current government, but also to all previous since 2000, we say, that they are doing anything when it comes to illegal privatisation that has been under way in the southern Serbian province for years. Therefore, the possibility and the Serbian government's right to raise funds from privatisation in Kosovo and Metohija has been completely untapped, and more than 500 businesses, of which around 320 have been sold so far. As a highlight, media are today publishing the following information -- that the main participants in privatisation in Kosovo will be former KLA leader Ramush Haradinaj, former deputy head of Unmik Steven Schook and former head of OSCE Observer mission William Walker. It's the same one who staged the Racak case. So criminals return to the crime scene, and Serbs discriminate in every way possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16159	Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Marina Ragush. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does Mrs. Ragush want to explain the amendment? Yeah. Here, you have a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16160	Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Minister, you have received an explanation for this amendment. The amendment, of course, you don't accept. The SRS is trying to improve the law, which it considers necessary, but certainly not in the form in which it is proposed to the National Assembly and citizens of the Serbian state. We have been trying for days only to show with concrete examples that in Serbia there is discrimination on all grounds, in the sense that the famous provision of the Constitution of the Serbian state, Article 21, is absolutely not respected. I hope you won't mind me, as well as colleagues from the ruling majority, which I am about to launch at this moment a topic that I believe is necessary to open a discourse within the Serbian society after October 5th, which is the state of culture, that is, the state of the institutions of national culture. Mr. Minister, we have actually had the resignations of three senior officials of national cultural institutions in Serbia for the last two weeks. It seems to me that Mrs Svetlana Boykovic will be resigning soon. What comes from the ranks of artists who have indeed marked Serbian society, is the finding that they are discriminated against, or the institutions of culture, by political or party membership. Serbian citizens should know, and the SRS has certain announcements that the respected names of Serbian culture...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16161	Thank you. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Here, you have the word, Mr. Mirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16162	Ladies and gentlemen, the amendment has been submitted to Article 4(1) and its purpose is to point out the need to ensure equal rights for all. Therefore, the purpose of this law should not be to protect or favour a marginal group, however aggressive or aggressive it is in the media. Also, our amendments also indicate how inadequate and inappropriate the bill is at this point, when we all know that the economic crisis is in our country. In this context, it is entirely inappropriate for the state administration to increase, and this is exactly foreseen, as a trustee for the protection of equality is being introduced. This should also be added to this by reason of the law, under which around 40m dinars will be allocated from the Republic of Serbia's 2010 budget for these purposes, which, according to the official NBS course of 20 March, is about 423,000 euros. So, at a time when, due to the interest conditions of the IMF, even pension and salary taxes are announced, which is not only harmful, but also pointless at the moment, the government is spending money on one bill that essentially irritates not only churches, but also a large majority of citizens, precisely because of this favoration of this marginal and aggressive group. It is simply incomprehensible and can only be explained in the following way: the literal application of the Prossel dogma, which has long lost every touch with real life and with our citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16163	Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Before you, Mr. Krasic, Mr. Zoran Babic reported after the previous amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16164	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, you have provided this bill for the unconstitutional form of trustees for the protection of equality, who you have given and the right to have both his professional service and three assistants. Math is an exact science. I'll try to do one equation with two unknowns. Namely, the trustee has the right to pay equal salary to the Supreme Cassation Court judge, which is, without contributions, about 100,000 dinars per month, plus three assistants with salaries of 80,000 dinars per month net, plus professional service, plus other expenses. We come that the price of the service of the trustee and his accompanying services will not be less than three million dinars a month. In all this story, the first one is unknown: what new imposition on the citizens of the Republic of Serbia will you provide this money? Another unknown is: how many families, expelled, displaced and truly discriminated people would provide basic living conditions from this money? An equation with two unknowns in mathematics is impossible. Therefore, either accept the amendments to the SNS, or the parliamentary club "Forward Serbia"-Tomislav Nikolic, or withdraw this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16165	Mr. Krassic, you have your word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16166	If sometimes, when we could explain the amendments for 15 minutes, we couldn't convince the government's representative, then with two minutes, we have a 7.5 times less chance of making what we all clearly clear and getting into the heads of the government. However, with this amendment to Article 4, we have tried to draw attention to the issue of political equality and equality, because one without another cannot. We are wasting our time, since the chairman of the City Committee of DS 2000, after the successful burning of the National Assembly was completed, became the judge of the Constitutional Court and who knows what. The public needs to know. We have here a group of MPs who are uncritical, at all costs of scrupulous and Euro-Atlantic integration and there is a condition for the gologus to enter. Of course, there is only one division now in the Republic of Serbia, the pro-European bloc -- the naked bloc, and the part that is normal Serbia, which is fighting for a normal life worthy of man. I appeal to the citizens that if they have the opportunity to meet the families of the DS MPs, they, mothers, women, daughters, exercise influence on these MPs, which Boris Tadic has obliged to vote for such a naked law. This is where all the possible arguments fell. Here only women can save Serbia, mothers, daughters of these MPs and all other citizens, to ask them not to vote for this law that destroys Serbia, because a small group wants to go to the EU at all costs. If they want to go naked, why does the whole of Serbia have to be naked? That's the problem. Glogusones are in power.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16167	Mr. Dragan Colic, you have your word. First Mr. Nikolic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16168	I really don't understand you, Madam President, is it possible for a man to say so many words of rude, rude to a pay phone, that you don't warn him at all? Do you mind the predecessor's dictionary or don't you mind? Is he appropriate to the National Assembly or not? If you think this is appropriate to the National Assembly, then you make this National Assembly a place for citizens to look with contempt. These words are not spoken here, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, at least not to pass without your warning. When you call for a vote against this law, call the Secretary General of the SRS, when he has an amendment to this law, let him talk about what she thinks about the gay population, not about what he thinks about people with KIM who are not the subject of this law right now. When you call, call your members, those who propagate to be gay, and don't yell and don't insult people in this National Assembly. Each of us has his pride and his right. If your termology is what you've just said, Mr. Krasic, you don't belong in this National Assembly. In these words you deserve to be excluded from the session of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16169	Mr Nikolic, a vocabulary, that is, the content that some MPs speak to and here in the Serbian Parliament and citizens is subject to the court of public, MPs and citizens of Serbia. If I were to analyze the way we talk, then I would take a lot of time and it would block us from working. We can argue on whether the terms used and how certain MPs here express their beliefs about this matter, whether it is on the agenda, whether it is appropriate or not. Perhaps I could agree with you that I could react, but there are a large number of MPs who would require reaction, commentary, and I think it would be extremely ineffective to always do so. I do it occasionally. (Tomislav Nikolic, from the post: I am not satisfied. ) If you are not satisfied, in the day of the vote, we will declare ourselves. Please, wait, I'm answering the MP for the remarks he's had and for which he has justifiably reported. If you are not satisfied with my answer, please make the Parliament's vote in the day. Thank you. Please, the term is not appropriate which you have stated and which you have noticed and observed, I agree with you, but in the people it is used for poor, poor people, those who are materially and statusally below a certain level of material status, and in the end it can be understood. Thank you. I think you were well-intentioned, but you have to understand that this would be extremely uneconomy if I talked about it. Mr. Krasic, you're advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure. First comes the breach of the Rules of Procedure, Mrs. Italian. Here you go, Mr. Crassy.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16170	Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic, I appeal to Article 104. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, you insult my dignity with the fact that you have indulged in commenting on what I have said. If you wanted to comment, if you had a different attitude, you could have left the presidency to someone else, so you could come out here, and we could face the views. I have to do it for you, so that you can understand the depth of that fall you just made, to draw your attention to one thing. Instead of today, talking about whether pensions are 70% of the salary, what about KIM, what about Vojvodina, what about the economic situation, what about the social situation of our citizens, our president of Serbia, cannot go to KIM, there are laws that are under any dignity, as if without this law there is no European integration. Of course, they're looking for a law like this, they don't want rich Serbs. Robbed Serbia, sold businesses, you say there's no money from privatisation, where is your privatisation money? Life themes you don't want here, but you've disaved the National Assembly. Here we have a lecture by someone who has stolen our mandates, sworn in a church of faithfulness, God, to honor his family, etc. I do not allow you to insult my dignity. If you have the opposite opinion, go ahead here, and you can't comment on my opinion from there.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16171	Mr. MP, I am obliged to respond to the MP who has advertised the Rules of Procedure and, in that sense, to use all the arguments that I hold to be in line. I give you a warning. [[Now he told him he was going to fuck his mother.]] Please, you can't yell and you can't break order like this in the congregation. Mr. Vukovic, I give you a warning. Mr. Krasic, I am obliged to answer the MP who advertises the Rules of Procedure, and that's all I've ever done. So there's no breach of the Rules of Procedure. Mrs. Italian, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16172	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Tomislav Nikolic shared with the MPs in the Assembly the text downloaded from the site, which was published in the newspapers that were shut down, "Gazeta", the dirtiest newspapers that existed only while Tomislav Nikolic, along with Vucica, prepared a coup in the SRS. I will quote my position quoted here, when it comes to what Mr Nikolic mentioned: "My personal position, but also the position of the SRS, is that there should be no discrimination... "It's categorical Italian. She points out that geisha has neither a positive nor a negative opinion and that it only believes that people who are such definitions should not be scolded. "This attitude of mine applies today. What is written in front of the quote is tenently placed, manipulated, because people close to Tomislav Nikolic worked there, because this text was written by the mistress Tomislav Nikolic. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16173	National MP Goran Mihajlovic submitted to the 4th amendment. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Mr. Michaelovich, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16174	National MP, the amendment was submitted by MP Goran Mihajlovic. Obstruction in listening to the chairman, or president of the National Assembly, has led to confusion, so you have no right, since the SRS parliamentary group has used the time at its disposal. Thank you. Does anyone else want a word? Dragan Colic, time at the disposal of the parliamentary group Forward Serbia is four minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16175	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Article 4 is current on the proposal for a law on the ban on discrimination, but the situation in Serbia is even more current and citizens of the government of the Republic of Serbia every day are telling that the crisis will only come and fear arises among Serbian citizens from every day forward. Today coming to the Assembly, on the way from Smederev to Belgrade, somewhere at the entrance to Belgrade, I noticed that there are already open shops for the poor, for the citizens of the weaker social state, and God forbid it can do that to those people who need it to help, but it looks very ugly on the street to see those marked people taking care of it. If citizens are to save the citizens of Serbia, then they should also save representatives of the government. Today's media "Evening News" has been thinking about reducing the number of ministerial portfolios, which may not be bad. But if it's being saved, there should be a reduction in the state's apparatus. From Article 28, I know that the current article 4 is the introduction of trustees costs 40 million dinars in 2010. How many stores could be open to help the poor? How much bread? How many life supplies? It is not possible, on the one hand, to tell the people and citizens of Serbia to tighten the belt, the question is whether or not they can, and there is no reduction and rationalisation of the state apparatus. Here 40 million, 40 million here, Mr. Chiplet, could be saved. I don't think it's rational what you're doing right now. During this presentation, SRS MPs banged on the benches. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16176	The word has been made by MP Stefan Zankov, the time available to the parliamentary group is two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16177	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SNS believes, and this is also in line with the General Recommendation of the European Commission on racism and intolerance of the members of the Council of Europe, that what you have provided for as the authority of the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality should be carried out by the protection of citizens. For such an attitude there are, I'd say, more reasons. First, in principle, by forming another institution, we continue with the bad and expensive practice of all DOS governments, that every law that the Assembly adopts forms a new commission, agency or something like that, and introduces the government of bureaucracy, and that no problem is practically solved. Under the conditions of the major economic and social crisis, this, to be clear, is not one person, it is 30, 40 people who would work in this administration, a great luxury, in a situation where there is an institution – the protectors of citizens. So, everything just turns into a government of bureaucracy. On the other hand, it seems to me to me, and it is so much more important that you accept our concept that we propose that this is the job of the citizens' protector, that you already adapt here even the legal conditions that one needs to meet in order to be in this place, through the amendment of the ruling party of the ZES, as well as the introduction of even, in this way, the deputy trustee for the protection of equality. In a situation where you announce that there will be no admission of workers to the state administration, this is an insolence, that you want to satisfy someone's appetites in this way. The state and local self-government should save and tighten the belt, not citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Finally, for another 10 seconds, in any case, the acceptance of our concept will benefit more from the states, and in no way will the rights of the endangered, discriminatory categories of the population and individuals remain unprotected. Thank you. During this presentation, SRS MPs banged on the benches. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16178	Anyone else want a word? Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by Ambassador Ognjen Mihajlovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Fired Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16179	Respected viewers of Tijanic's television, the SRS has done its best to stop this law, but terror of the yellow majority unequivocally, in so far's practice, suggests the law will be passed. What's going to happen to us, I'm going to try one practical case, after this law is passed, to explain. I have a godfather. Lives in the Netherlands, well-settled, apartment, house, two sons, Marko and Luka, I was both baptized, engineer, excellent salary, his wife, of course, is Serbian, Branka. He tells me, somewhere around New Year's, when they let him go for their Dutch holidays -- godfather, I'm coming back to Serbia. What the hell, godfather, you're fine in there, you just took care of everything, you even got their papers? Godfather, I can't, when I walk out on this street of theirs, explain to the sons why Uncle caught the other uncle for a warning, for the dirty one. I can't even argue with the Dutch about it. This is their land. I'm a stranger here. Let them do whatever they want. Brother, I'm going back to that normal country of Serbia, to live like humans, not to think about that nonsense. My godfather, don't come back. I know sometimes they let you play this poor Tianic TV and this even poorer Assembly. You'll hear me. Don't come back. Stay where you are. You've already built some kind of survival there. We still have to watch where and how we're going to move, figure out front directions, against the wall, so slowly as far as we get. That's it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16180	Anyone else want a word? Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Maric. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter Vesna Marić.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16181	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to the draft law on the prohibition of discrimination, which is amended and read in Article 4(1): Citizens are equal, regardless of the differences in personal properties. The amendment proposes to amend that member of the draft law in order to strengthen the constitutional provision laid down in Article 21. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia on the prohibition of discrimination. First of all, I would like to remind you that the legislator is not in Article 2 – I give an explanation for the term "all". He explained the words "face" and "everyone." When you started out with blue, you had to explain the concept that you most often use in the law. Human rights are a constitutional category, and therefore we have to pay attention to them, there is no arbitraryness. Equality has been questioned in all areas today. Are hospitals and health care rights equal to everyone, and is this law going to change that? Today, everyone is well - known for the fact that one who has money can provide himself with a bed in the hospital and an adequate medical service. Mr. Minister, do you know that people with diabetes don't have the same rights and that because of the fact that they have diabetes, they can't exercise their right to work because the employer thinks that these people are at risk of working skills? Your suggestion that all are equal and enjoy the same position is not precise enough.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16182	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Mladenovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Mr. Bojan Mladenovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16183	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the citizens of Serbia, I have submitted an amendment to Article 4. that attitude 1 changes and reads: "The equality in the Republic of Serbia is guaranteed to all, regardless of personal characteristics". Ladies and gentlemen, this law is a prelude to the subsequent adoption of laws and the possibility of married homosexual couples and later the possibility of adopting children. That's what I was talking about earlier, so I was interrupted, so I'd continue, that the child that's going to be adopted, the child who's going to have two mothers, will have no uncles. It is a new, abnormal phenomenon that will affect the country of Serbia. A child who will have two fathers won't have uncles. Whether it is again an abnormal phenomenon approved by the Serbian government, approved by the ruling majority. This law favors not only homosexualism, but also pedophile, necrophilia, sodomy. All these phenomena are unnatural, supernatural, which absolutely nothing positive can bring to our society and our country. Those who support these phenomena should be treated, they should be taken on the right path, they should be given a lot of attention and help, they should be turned to the church, Orthodoxism, taught and told about Serbian history, about Christianity, about normal phenomena, brought back to normal life flows, they should be properly sexually focused on the relationship between men and women, not on the relationship between two men or two women, or on the relationship between man and animal, man and corpse, man and old and powerless persons or men with children. We need to fight all these phenomena, we need to root them out. The SPC, the Catholic Church, the Islamic community, the Jewish community, have on this issue the same attitude that is extremely firm and clear, which does not approve and fight against such things. All believers in Serbia support this view.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16184	Two minutes, thank you. Anyone else want a word? If not, I am determining a break and debate in particular at 15.00 hours by discussing the amendment to Article 4 submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Thank you. [[After break – 15:00]] We continue the afternoon work of the Assembly. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP Boris Aleksic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16186	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I am first sorry that the minister is not here, although the session has begun, even though it is his obligation. I will continue to apply the amendment to Article 4(1). I suggested that it be changed and said: "The public authorities are obliged to provide everyone with equal protection of rights, regardless of different personal qualities". First of all, I'd like to draw your attention to one of the polemics that appeared here. Several people who went out to defend this law pointed out that the Constitution does not allow homosexual marriages. However, the very definition in the Constitution that marriage was a community of men and women existed, for example, in the legislation and the Constitution of the United States itself. Look what happened in their legal practice. Gay lobbies, which have extremely large finances, have funded long court proceedings, in which they have proved that this definition is obsolete and implies people who are otherwise declared. So the courts in America began to conclude, in certain states, homosexual marriages. For this reason, the citizens of the three states in the United States, Arizona, California and Florida, have voted in constitutional amendments that accurately define marriage. So, the argument that our constitution forbids homosexual marriages may not be strong enough and strong enough, because it will be asked by the introduction of this law, and based on the practice experienced by people in the United States, it begins from 1970 to today. So I urge you to reconsider this law and accept this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16187	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before I ask if anyone else wants a word, I would like to inform you, on the basis of Article 85(5), that we will be working after 6:00 p.m. and by discussing a point that will be on the agenda at that time. Also, a notice from RT Serbia, which Mr. Odalovic informed him that today, on Wednesday, March 25th 2009, due to earlier commitments by RTS, he will not be able to follow the meeting of the Serbian Parliament in direct transmission from 1825 to 1825, and the time we are working after 1825 will be delayed. The People's Parliament of the Witch of Radeta? No, I don't. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Vitomir Plužarevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16188	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have submitted an amendment to Article 4 and this amendment we propose that Article 4 paragraph 1 changes and reads: "Citizens are equal and enjoy equal protection from public authorities, regardless of their personal properties". Regarding this area, i.e. a general ban and forms of discrimination, which treat the principles of equality and Article 4 relating to this law, I would like to remind the citizens of Serbia, to return them back to the era a little ten years ago, when these NATO bombers and those 18 countries bombed Serbia and then, and all this is related to discrimination, so at that time, they caused damage to the citizens of Serbia at $120 billion. It was ten years ago, in fact, ten years after we were bombed, and during those ten years, all those who carried out the bombing owe Serbia and every citizen of Serbia 195 billion dollars. So, all of you who are receiving and hosting here in Serbia in various ways owe us about 195 billion dollars, and you're looking forward to these days, when the IMF was here for some talks and negotiations, hoping that they'll give you some three billion dollars...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16189	Time's up. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljubomir Kragovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Ljubomir Kragovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16190	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on the proposal for a law on the prohibition of discrimination, I have submitted an amendment on behalf of the SRS to amend and read in Article 4(1): "Citizens are equal and enjoy equal protection from the institutions of the Republic of Serbia, regardless of their personal properties". I have proposed an amendment to strengthen the constitutional provision of Article 21. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia on the prohibition of discrimination. I'd like to point out exactly that this bill is puzzling, shameful, degutant, deviant, immoral. However, as the bill itself is such, even worse things brought forth by the ruling majority MPs who defended this law, so I will take the time to say and point out one opportunity -- that this law adopted in countries with high democracy and even states that it was adopted in the Kosovo Assembly in 2004. Given the fact that the president of the assembly daily utters at least a dozen reminders to the MPs of the SRS, I am simply concerned by the fact that at this point, the MP who gave the fact that such a law was passed in the Kosovo Assembly back in 2004, because then the absolutely ruling majority did not recognise this quasi state of Kosovo and their independence, which was declared in 2008, but also recognise the institutions of Kosovo that were still in 2004. It is one of the biggest discrimination against the remaining Serbian people who remained in Kosovo and Metohija. I warn you, in the future, that these steps are sanctioned and strictly forbidden to be pronounced because they are contrary to the Constitution.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16191	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Srboljub Zivanovic. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Radisa Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16192	The amendment that I have submitted to Article 4 amends Article 2, which should read: "Citizens are obliged to respect the equality and equality of other citizens and legal persons, i.e. the prohibition of discrimination". In the bill of law, Article 4(2) reads one, I would say, an undefined summary directory that absolutely does not correspond to the law or any more serious legal act. In point 1, the word "everyone" is referred to in point 2 of the word "everyone." It's so, first of all, a broad notion that can include both foreigners and our citizens, Indians, Eskimo, anyone on the globe of the Earth. On one case, I'll show you how discriminatory it is that those who whine about how human rights are threatened that they can't parade on the streets of Serbian cities. This is also an example of how and how well the state authorities react when it comes to the action of guys on heels in Serbia. A group of citizens representing themselves as some gay alliance has recently hacked into the Sava Center Hall, interrupted the screening of the film at the past festival, mauled the audience and no one at all. If the state authorities had to do their job, the group would have been inexplicably, as the legislator said in Article 3 - effectively, stuck in prison and paid the appropriate punishment. Instead, we witnessed a heart attack, wheezing and mourning of the participants of this scandal. If it were an ordinary citizen or some patriotic association, it would be hours they'd be in Padinska Skela. Who's actually discriminating who here?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16193	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vlad Milojkovic. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Nikola Savic. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Natasa Jovanovic submitted a letter to the 4th amendment. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by Parliament of People Gordana Paunović-Milosavljevic. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Gordana Paunović-Milosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16194	On behalf of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to the proposal for a law prohibiting discrimination, to Article 4(2). In the proposal for Law Article 2, which refers to the principle of equality, it reads: "Anyone is obliged to respect the principle of equality, i.e. the prohibition of discrimination". On behalf of the SRS, I suggested that Article 4(2) should change and read as follows: "The citizen should not harm the equality of other citizens and legal persons, i.e. the prohibition of discrimination". This amendment is more precise, clearer and more concrete than the proposed law, because the word "everyone" is replaced by the word "citizen" and thus is adapted in a more adequate and efficient way to the principle of equality. I also wanted to say that the SRS is fighting discrimination against women in the field of labour and employment. Women in Serbia earn 16% less than men and are not equally represented in leading positions. The National Employment Service last year saw 736,000 unemployed people. Of these, 395,237 women are on unemployable records, many of whom are about 50 years old and are much harder to hire. The modern and increasingly common type of discrimination against women, who appeared after 2000 in Serbia, is that some companies have contracts that oblige women to stay out of condition until...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16195	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Damjanovic. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Jovan Damjanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16196	Dear ladies and gentlemen, the President-in-Office, Mr. Minister, I will look back, since you have already written my amendment, on some matters that are important to the Roma community. I was almost on a tour of the Roma settlements in Bavanist and Deliblat. Believe me, it's really worrying. Whether it's discrimination or not, I won't say, but it can't happen like that. They're water-free, no sewers, no sidewalks, no asphalt, no phone booth, no electricity. I ask the institutions of the state and local self-government to do something to improve the lives of the Roma community in these places. I will not speak because there is no time for other places, but they are similar either in a worse situation, or in a situation like this, not only in other places but throughout Serbia. I believe in the institutions of the Republic of Serbia and the Decada of Roma that there will be shifts in exactly these environments where the infrastructure is zero. For the sake of a better life of the Roma population and their children and youth, something must be done concretely. I don't think there should be round tables in Decada Roma, there should be no study business, we shouldn't map some things we won't do. It is to be mapped and established in those places where it is necessary for the better life of the Roma community, and the neurotic and unromantic communities in those environments, and to do what is necessary, especially for the Roma community in the decade in our country and which our country is chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16197	Anyone else want a word? If not, the People's MP, Suleyman Spaho, submitted to the Fourth Amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Mr. Spaho has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16198	Mrs. Comic, here's what you've done to me, to make my legs tremble when I come here, and even my shoe untied, because of you. You've given me so much fear that I don't already know how I'm going to present this amendment of mine. Mr. Minister, after this farce of the law, I ask you and your ministry, and the Government, to ensure my religious rights that allow me as a Serb Muslim religion that I have two or more wives, four at least. By this law, you discriminate against me. You allow citizens who are in fact willing to create families, to live in a community. Believe me, you must also change the Family Law, the Family Law, in which you will somehow be able to insert this segment that I was talking about. Believe me, if you were to vote him out, I couldn't practice him because I'm having a hard time dating a woman because of this material situation, and I'm, for God's sake, at my age. This to whom he can answer, it can only match Mr. Tadic. He already has a politically unnatural marriage to Canka, Ljajic, Dacic, sometimes including Cedomir Jovanovic, sometimes including Tomislav Nikolic. The marriage must already not exist on the Serbian scene.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16199	Does anyone else want to follow this amendment? (No) An MP named Milan M. Nikolic has submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word is Mr Milan M. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16200	Dear People's MPs, on behalf of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to the proposed law, so that Article 2(2) is amended and reads: The citizen must not harm the equality and equality of other citizens and legal persons, i.e. the prohibition of discrimination." This amendment should strengthen the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Article 21, which reads: "The Constitution and the law are all equal". The European Commission's 2008 report, in the work on economic and social rights, states that the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia prohibits any form of discrimination, but that there is still widespread discrimination against national minorities, Roma populations, women, as well as persons with special sexual orientations. The reasons for respect for international standards and obligations undertaken by ratification of international contracts are also also cited, in particular those relating to guarantees of human rights and freedoms. In my opinion, it would be more likely to be a task of world policy makers, world powers, who are also sexually disturbed, and thus want to promote their sexual orientation and their partners. The SRS is sincerely against any form of discrimination and any form of discrimination. This law is anti-constitutional, pointless and impractical. Against this law are all traditional religious communities, many prominent personalities, as well as NGOs. This is about a very dirty campaign against traditional religious communities.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16201	Anyone else want a word? (No) Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Sladjan Mijaljevic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has an MP, Sladjan Mijaljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16202	Dear Presidency, fellow Members, I have submitted another amendment to a series of amendments to this controversial and contradictory law. It's about one really interesting interpretation or more interpretation of one word. The amendment requires that Article 4(2) changes and states: A citizen should not harm the equality and equality of other legal entities, i.e. a prohibition of discrimination. The government's argument was not to accept the amendment because the amendment was not in line with the purpose of the law. The citizen is a narrow category of the one offered by the bill, and in Article 2, points 1 and 2 of the word "everyone" is explained - every unwarranted distinction or misbehavior, meaning it's actions, again it's "everyone" or "everyone". Then, in Article 2, the second position says "everyone" - marks one who resides in the territory of the Republic of Serbia or in territory under its jurisdiction. This in 2nd position should be a foreign citizen. "Each" in this previous position re-marks a specific action. Perhaps it would be better if you put "everyone" and all sorts of things, then it would refer to all possible living species that exist on the planet Earth, and then this law can deal with both humans or human species, which I put under the "citizen," and under this "everyone and all sorts" could be some kind of animal, even some kind of plant. So much for this controversial and contradictory law.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16203	Anyone else want a word? If not, the People's MP Milorad Buh has submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has been made by Ambassador Milorad Buh.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16204	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted on behalf of the SRS Amendment to Article 4(1). The amendment has been rejected, but it is important to highlight the essence of this amendment. That's what I'm going to say from the aspect of a particular population group that I spoke about yesterday, which is a refugee population that has been exiled from Republika Srpska's territory by genocide policy of the Croatian state. Serbian state authorities are doing nothing to remove the discriminatory actions of Croatian authorities, to internationalise them and to point to the basic problems of the population that have avoided these areas, which has taken away all property and all property rights. I will point to two current laws that the Croatian state authorities passed last year. It is the Law on Special Social Protection, which deals with specific issues in the territory of Republika Srpska, and the Law on Agricultural Land. Namely, the first law on special state protection definitely deprives the Croatian state authorities of all rights to state dwellings or to dwellings where Serbs had tenant rights. They are assigned, you see wonders, Croatian members of the armed forces, the first fighters of their war and representatives of the BiH population currently living in the Republic of Croatia, regardless of what the categories have already achieved, those in BiH, and these have already achieved this right under previous legal rules...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16205	Two minutes. Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Branimir Djokic. The People's MP, Riza Halimi, has a word. The time available for the Parliamentary Minority Group is 8.24 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16206	Madam Chairman, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, using the time foreseen for the debate in the particulars belonging to our parliamentary group, within this amendment to Article 4, I say that, together with the other MPs of our parliamentary group, I will support this law, because it is not only formally, but also essential for raising the level of equality and preventing the presence of discrimination in our society. Of course, as a member of the national minority, without underestimating other areas covered by this law, I stress the enormous importance of this law in the direction of preventing further discrimination on a national basis and ensuring full equality over a further period. I therefore consider the very important provisions of the laws introduced by the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality, as well as a provision which provides for specific measures to achieve full equality between the group of persons in an unequal position. I have so far pointed out the very sensitive life problems faced by residents of Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedja municipalities due to drastic economic underdevelopment, especially members of the Albanian national minority in this area, who have been discriminated for a very long time. However, it is very disturbing that in certain forms discrimination continues. Three weeks ago, I asked a written parliamentary question about how to prevent discrimination through a public auction, which should be privatised in the second round by the Company of Bratstvo, which has shops in the main streets of Presevo. The company would have been privatised in the first round if no discriminatory and monopolistic conditions had been set by the Privatisation Agency, that candidates applying for auctions must have made their income in the last year of at least two million euros and, more strangely, they must have a four-star hotel. In the most underdeveloped municipality in the state, where there is no hotel at all, the company is a commercial, it's not catering, it's got to be that candidate who's going to buy that company, that he has a four-star hotel. So, first of all, the price is dropping artificially. Now 31 million dinars are the price for 15 locals or even a business space store. Only for one of these business spaces, the first degree and the second in Vranj, the district court, I've already talked about it here, they've made decisions, they're illegal, but they're still valid, that the municipality has to make up at least 300,000 euros for one local, which was nationalized by the Islamic community for a while, and in some staged procedure, it needs to pay for the municipality now. Where there's logic now: 15 places that are now being sold, it's known, only it's not exactly said who's going to buy it. In advance, those who have so far been engaged in trade in this municipality are rejected. So they're being denied that possibility in advance because they don't have a four-star hotel. It has to be one of Nis's, further to Belgrade. I think this is about classical discrimination, as is also discrimination made by the Minister of Agriculture, which by regulation, I think at the beginning of last year, that this is Official Messenger No. 8 of 2008, published a Regulation on the 2008 tobacco premium. Imagine, there are all three types of tobacco: Virginia, Oriental and Berlay, but it is only accomplished for Virginia and not for these other species, and the oriental is grown only in the south, especially in Bujanovac and Presevo. So, what now? While Virginia can be handled by richer people, who can get to the drought, and then this current premium of 32,000 per ha is paid to them, and it won't be worth anything to that poor worker or even a farmer who's lived on tobacco so far and hired the whole family, because the country's orientation is drying up on home terms, all the family members are engaged, and then the ransom goes dry tobacco. Then it is clear that 32,000 per hectare is paid to a larger Virginia, where about 20,25,000 hectare per hectare goes, and it can't be paid to the one who dealt with the Oriental, where it takes 200,000 acres per hectare. So, about eight to nine times the conditions are more difficult, less rewarding conditions under this as the ministry now applies, and by 2012. Imagine, a monopoly again. Only a tobacco buyout company, when given again in the second round, can buy only someone who deals with tobacco and prevents other types of agriculture and other businesses that could do something in the area. There will be a second round, a third round, and for this trading company and, in this case, a tobacco buyout company, and they will be bought by monopolies. There are three or four companies in tobacco, no more, which can meet the conditions to buy them out. They don't apply now, expect the cheapest price, to buy for the bagatel, because monopolist discriminatory conditions are being put forward. I'm sure the Albanians will come to terms, buy business space from this trading company, but at a cost ten times as expensive as anyone in Belgrade or Nis will buy this commercial company. When I add to this the situation with Corridor 10 and with the employment of state authorities, gentlemen, I am telling you that there is also a new Ministry of Protection of National Minorities, but also this law with the trustee to deal with this issue more seriously.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16207	People's MP, time at your envoy's disposal has been used. Anyone else want a word? Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Branimir Djokic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Veselinović. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have not accepted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Milan Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16208	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, that this law was not to be found in the assembly procedure, was best explained today by my colleague and party brother Petar Jojic, an excellent lawyer and lawyer, who, on several occasions, explained to the public what it is and where this matter is all covered, began by the Constitution, and by other legal provisions and projects. I will support some of the facts that are important to hear, including representatives of national minorities, especially Hungary, and those who support LDP and this whole group that forms power. I'm sure there's a large number of people in that group who are here in their eyes, and the heavy hearts will be defined as voting for this law. Statistics from 2005 on the population's growth in Serbia, which say the trend of the Hungarian national minority's growth is minus ten, and Serbs minus three, as opposed to that in Albanians plus 24.5. Isn't this data that is worrying, above all for the state of Serbia and Serbs and others whose trend is the trend of decline, and such a law will contribute to the continued negative trend. The 2002 census says that about 95% of the population has declared to belong to traditional religious communities. Of which only 5% belongs to atheists and some religious sects. Isn't that the data that says...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16209	Two minutes, thank you. Anyone else want a word? Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Dusan Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16210	Ladies and gentlemen, I have proposed that the text – everyone is obliged to respect the principle of equality – be replaced by the text – is obliged by citizens to respect the right to equality. Termin – a citizen is more precise than the term – everyone, and the population of this country is not everyone, but the citizens of Serbia. I reiterate the fact that we have been exposed to discrimination for 20 years by the US, the NATO Pact and the EU. Instead of protesting every day, screaming for injustice, for the discrimination we are exposed to, Serbia under DS does not stop courting those who bombed us. And yesterday has passed in courting the NATO Pact. I will give only one example, last night's RTS daily, editor or director reads – although NATO claimed it was a humanitarian war, "many agree that it is a crime against humanity". The message is clear. Maybe it was a crime, maybe it wasn't a crime, and maybe it was a humanitarian war, maybe NATO is right. I recall, 20,000 tonnes of bombs were dropped on Serbia, 2,500 people were killed, among them 89 children, 8500 houses were torn down, 300 schools, dozens of factories were destroyed, material damage over 30 billion euros were done, and for RTS editors it may be a crime, and perhaps not. I think this is the bottom, and I wouldn't be surprised if we came into a situation that in five years' time, Serbia's NATO pact and the EU is sending a telegram of the following content, a telegram that would start with words -- sorry for killing our children.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16211	Anyone else want a word? Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Acimovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Dragan Acimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16212	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 4(2). The draft law prohibiting discrimination in front of the SRS parliamentary group, which is said to be a citizen, is obliged to respect the principle of equality, i.e. the prohibition of discrimination. Constitutional provision referred to in Article 21. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia on the ban on discrimination: All are equal before the Constitution and the law. Everyone has the right to equal legal protection, without discrimination. Mr. Minister, will this legal project have its strength on KIM when it comes to Serbs and other non-Albanian nations? Did you deliberately or accidentally choose a debate under this law on March 17th and 18th, when there was a major discrimination against Serbs in Kosovo? Then why didn't you find it appropriate to protect genocide Serbs in this law and each other from their hearths throughout the former Yugoslavia? Do you care about the discrimination against Serbs in The Hague who have been honorably defending their country, such as Dr Vojislav Seselj, Slobodan Milosevic and all those Serbs who have been in this anti-Serbian court now have no opportunity to defend themselves with their own expertise, knowledge, only proving the truth about Serbia and the Serbian people. Today in The Hague are victims of discrimination against those representing Hashim Thaci, Ramush Haradinaj and other criminals who have the support and protection of America and NATO. It's another indicator of how fair the Hague court is, how respected human rights are and what discrimination they have in it...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16213	Two minutes, thank you. Anyone else want a word? The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16214	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, following a number of amendments submitted by the MPs of the SRS, are unequivocally to conclude that it is a law favouring positive discrimination. We remember that, explaining this bill, the minister said that the reasons for its adoption are legal and political, and that is true, but it is the minister who thought in August last year how and how the mandate of the MPs can be seized. When there were legally valid reasons for this, the minister as minister at the ministry he led did not try to intervene, he did not care. You further said that this law is a debt of the current government to the citizens of Serbia and instructed the reasons. One of the reasons why this law should be passed is the concern of the Serbian government towards people with disabilities. I responsibly claim that this law is no less responsible for the disabled than without this law. On the contrary, out of a large number of employees you will create disabled people, because a man who has no permanent job is nothing but a potential invalid. Protecting children and youth; just to remind you that in some places there are children who go to school whose destruction by experts is indicated, children go to school where there is only one student. Is that discrimination? In what conditions do these disciples work, and how do educators teach? Protecting women from discrimination absolutely does not stand by this law, but therefore...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16215	Two minutes, thank you. Anyone else want a word? The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's Messenger Mirko Munjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16216	Ladies and gentlemen, here we are talking about the occurrence of forms of discrimination that are characterized by the constitutional provisions laid down in Article 21. The Constitution of Serbia. However, it is certain that those who propose this law, as well as in most other laws, is absolutely not the principle of equal rights, freedom and duty in the first place. A policy like this, like you want something else. Mr. Minister, you probably know that a metaphor called the butterfly effect has entered science. You know that a butterfly with only one swing of its wings at the right time and in the right place can cause a hurricane. With a bill like this, as well as some other legal proposals we've seen here, you seem to want this butterfly effect. The comprehensive measures that you implement, which includes the proposal of this law, in a situation where you are against this law of the SPC, as well as other traditional religious communities, when there are many political organizations, many patriotic NGOs, stubbornly stick to what someone has given you as a task to do and as a task to bring you into this National Assembly. You probably forget about one simple, clear, but indeed the right saying, which is, let one who says it's good to be an ass go and put a ular on it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16217	Anyone else want a word? The 5th amendment was submitted by Radica Jocic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Radica Jocic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16218	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have tabled an amendment to Article 5. The draft law prohibiting discrimination by changing and saying: "Dicrimination in social life is manifested in the form of indirect and direct discrimination, violation of the constitutional principle of equal rights, freedom and obligations, calling for responsibility, association for discrimination against other legal entities, hate speech and harassment and humiliating treatment. As the Serbian Parliament discusses this law which aims only to destroy the traditions and morals of the Serb people in all areas of society, as well as to legalise the behavior that our children have in kindergartens and schools and our offspring can very badly act in every respect, in our reality, still unprotected minors on the street, sick, unsettled and all the infirm to whom the state is obliged to provide all the rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16219	Anyone else want a word? Member of the 5th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Popovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Zoran Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16220	In front of the SRS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 5. The draft law on the prohibition of discrimination, by proposing that this member, which reads, "The forms of discrimination are direct and indirect discrimination, as well as violation of the principle of equal rights and obligations, calling for responsibility, association for the conduct of discrimination, hate speech and harassment and demeaning treatment" – changes and that after the change it reads: "Dicrimination appears in the form of indirect and direct discrimination, violation of the principle of equal rights, freedom and obligations, calling for responsibility, organising for discrimination against other citizens and legal persons, humiliating treatment and harassment". As can be concluded from this amendment, a new legal norm formulation has been carried out systematically, because they have failed to do so by the authors of this bill, but we in the SRS do not resent it, because we are aware that copying from others is always wrong and that then such errors make the legal norm in interpretation meaningless, linguistic and grammatically incorrect and legally unrelated. Certainly, the fundamental change in this new formulation of Article 5, which I propose to this amendment, is that discrimination also occurs when it is organised to discriminate against other citizens and legal persons. When I say legal persons, I mean, first of all, political parties and citizens' associations, which, by sure, register with the competent ministry, gain legal personality. I am sorry that I do not have enough time to list here a number of examples in which many individuals, including NGOs, have conducted discriminatory actions and attacks on the SRS and our president, Dr Vojislav Seselj, just because we freely express our political views, we represent the ideology of Serbian nationalism. [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16221	Two minutes. Anyone else want a word? A member of the 5th amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Radisa Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16222	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 5. Proposal for a law prohibiting discrimination relating to discrimination in social life and humiliating treatment. There are elements here that we can establish discrimination against Serbian citizens, especially the Serbian people by top state officials. I'll show you on one case what it looks like when there's a form of discrimination in social life in the form of humiliating treatment. Yesterday, it was perfectly demonstrated by Defence Minister Dragan Sutanovac, who managed to insult dead heroes in just five minutes, to humiliate their families, to slap citizens of Serbia who survived the difficult moments of the 99th year, for which their "merciful angel" was responsible. What happened? Minister Sutanovac laid a wreath on behalf of the ministry yesterday, in the name of the Army to mention the markings of pilots, heroes who died bravely in an unequal battle with NATO aviation and after the honour of the minister, took a few steps away from mentioning the markings and gave us lessons in Serbia's NATO accession to the pact, about how there are forces that oppose it, but that there is no need to do it now, because imagine, we are not yet officially invited to join NATO. We remember that from this speaker, Defence Minister Dragan Sutanovac has publicly cried out that he wants Serbia in the NATO Pact and then has the right to pay his respects, to lay garners to those whom the NATO Pact has killed. At the grave of a hero, a pilot, the victims of a minister is praised by murderers, honoring NATO's pact. [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16223	Two minutes. Anyone else want a word? The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Vlad Milojkovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by Parliament Gordana Pop-Lazic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16224	Since this amendment and the member of the law itself refers to a humiliating act, it is excellently creamy to say that all citizens of Serbia are discriminated against by the conduct of the chairmanship of the National Assembly, which does not allow MPs, or the speakers of the people, to speak anything that the people would like to hear, but what to do. That's how you introduced dictatorship into Serbia... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16225	Please, People's MPs, do not be false about the speaker of the National Assembly, when it comes to the course of the session and the work of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. As of today at 10.00 hours and all the time of the session and the president of the National Assembly and I apply the Rules of Procedure. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure are very clear and binding on both the President and the Chairman to apply the Rules of Procedure. Each MP is free to comment on whether or not he likes a provision, but there are no negotiations on the rules, the rules apply equally to everyone in this National Assembly, so I ask you to make sure that when you issue incorrect qualifications at the time of your presentation, and regarding the debate on the amendment to Article 5. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16226	I agree. The rules speak for themselves. Two minutes, as many MPs have decided to allow MPs to explain something that is very important, imagine when the budget law comes on the agenda, so in two minutes you need to explain the amendment and talk about the law, it will be really interesting. But you can't challenge my political claim that I believe that this is how you introduce us into dictatorship, and that what we can expect is a revolution, possibly a civil war, and then some deputy who will rule Serbia. So, since yesterday it was marked 10 years since NATO aggression, instead of military, is still being used against Serbia just like these, political, media and other methods, and the consequences are equal, perhaps even more severe and harmful than the destruction of infrastructure, industry, agriculture, the poisoning of the natural environment with the impoverished uranium. You know that several times the number of cancer patients has been increased precisely because of this. First of all, we have an all-out desrbation of the people. The West manipulates the Serbian auditorium, arguing that it is Serbia who has sinned that NATO has dropped its bombs. We're economically dependent, we're constantly in a crisis situation, we're opening these stores for the poor, we're doing some discrimination again. What are they going to buy in those shops? I guess that bad stuff or that stuff that ran out of time? I don't understand what this is about. You're sending us some 10-year-old bills. I got 60,000 in person this morning. I have every account in orderly paid. Which fool has been keeping accounts for 10 years today, please, when you know you have to keep them for a year or two to prove some claim. The money's missing in the budget of the city of Belgrade, let's do this now if it passes-through, take the money to the people who are crazy to pay.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16227	Two minutes, thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by Dušanka Plecevic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Dušanka Plečević.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16228	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 5 which is amended and reads: "Dicrimination appears in the form of indirect and direct discrimination, violation of the constitutional principle of equal rights and obligations, calling for responsibility, organisation for discrimination against other citizens and legal persons and humiliating treatment". In relation to the proposed member, the concepts of association, hate speech and harassment are rejected for the following reasons. Association is a narrow concept of organization. The organization is far more serious and dangerous than association because it involves organization with its programmes, organs and funding source. The merger can be temporary, ad hoc, with one goal, while the organisation is a serious form of association and a more lasting character. The organization has designed and continued support. The example is numerous so-called so-called. NGOs with formal goals, and essentially in the highest number of open political activities, anti-constitutional, anti-legal and highly destructive to Serbia's national interests. The passing of this law is seen as favoring their behaviour, at least according to their media statements, instead of first being hit by such a law. Secondly, hate speech is also cast out with this amendment, because that expression means everything and nothing. This famous coin, a prescribed flossula, has no clear definition and can only be the subject of a personal experience of someone’s actions, thus being the most suitable for abuse. This newly adopted term once existed in our law called a "verbal delict". Many remember the time when this hated qualification sent people to the Goli Island camp, deprived them of all human attributes, loudly spoken opinions, gestures, jokes, and even told dreams were devastating throughout families. Is the adoption of this member returning that time? Who estimates what hate speech is and on what criteria? Will any unwanted opinion be declared hate speech? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16229	Thank you, two minutes. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Nikola Savic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Vladan Jeremic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by a Member of the Commission, Natasa Jovanovic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Radovanovic.. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Dragan Zivkov. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Dragan Zivkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16230	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 5. The draft law prohibiting discrimination reads: "Dicrimination in the social life of the Republic of Serbia is manifested in the form of direct and indirect discrimination, violation of the constitutional principle of equal rights, freedom and obligations, calling for responsibility, association for discrimination, hate speech and harassment and humiliating treatment." In response to the Government, the amendment is not accepted for reasons which do not change the essence and content of the provision. Given that it does not change the essence of the provisions, I think you could have accepted the amendment, but since you have the practice of not accepting any amendments to the SRS, so in vain the SRS MPs from the amendment are trying to prove and convince the minister to accept some amendment. Since this article 5 mentions hate speech, the best example of discrimination is Cheveningen, where our Dr. Vojislav Seselj, president of the party, fought for his rights, strike hunger, killing 28 days in the detention unit. Since none of the Government or the ministers called back then, it is not discrimination for you, and you prescribe law from such countries and you want to enforce such laws in the Republic. In many examples, the SRS has pointed to discrimination: as far as privatisation is concerned, as regards the Orthodox Church, as regards the Catholic Church and all religious communities, political parties that have raised their voice against this law, but you remain silent in addition to all this we want to fix, to convince you that this law will cause even greater damage to discrimination in the Republic of Serbia and our country.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16231	Two minutes, thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Jadranko Vukovic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Jadranko Vukovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16232	Dear Mrs. Comic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment before the SRS to article 5 with a proposal to change. As my predecessor has read what is in Article 5 of the Proposer, I will tell you what we propose to change. We propose that a full member be changed and that "Dicrimination is manifested in the social life of the Republic of Serbia in the form of direct and indirect discrimination, violation of the principle of equal rights and obligations, calling for responsibility, association for discrimination, hate speech and harassment and humiliating treatment". Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, as Mrs Pop-Lazic just talked about the latest case of discrimination against Serbian citizens, have just been informed that two pensioners in New Belgrade, where Infostan is located and where the kilometer is literally one kilometer away, are not saying any more, a column of citizens seeking proof in Infostan that they have paid neatly. However, they are waiting there, no one can contact them to tell them to go home, if the authorities have made a mistake. They're waiting there, no one's talking to them. I think this is, in my opinion, a direct form of discrimination. For two pensioners, the ambulance came and they drove them away. They fell waiting.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16233	Two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16234	Thank you, Mrs. Comic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16235	Anyone else want a word? Member of the 5th amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Ljubenovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Tomislav Ljubenović.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16236	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment that I have submitted to Article 5 is amended and reads: "Dicrimination appears in the form of indirect and direct discrimination, violation of the constitutional principle of equal rights, freedom and obligations, calling for responsibility, organisation for discrimination against other legal entities, hate speech, indulgence and humiliating treatment". All forms of discriminatory behaviour are present at the moment in Leskovac, where it is recently in the power of the DS. Namely, the DS, via its TV Leskovac media station, has denied the right for the citizens of the town of Leskovec to have access to information. The SRS TV Leskovac issued a statement that this TV did not want to broadcast, and the statement wrote the truth about stealing from the Colting Company. In fact, at the time of the pre-election campaign, the former incom woodworking plant has been extremely successful, in the privatisation process it became a Colting, owned by a Cypriot citizen. As the pre-election campaign was under way, Boris Tadic himself attended the opening, vowing along with the dyed Democrats, 3,000 jobs, at the time science fiction for the entire Jablan region. Only 268 workers were employed at the factory, who now, when the Democrats came to power, found themselves on the street, as the owner of Cyprus passed the machine overnight to Romania. Along with the machines, he carried, even, imagine, water boilers. Since the campaign is over in Serbia and now that the Democrats have come to power in Leskovac, we have to ask ourselves – are elections now being prepared in Romania, so the machines, along with water...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16237	Anyone else want a word? If not, the People's MP Lidija Dimitrijevic submitted to Article 5 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Lidija Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16238	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment, which I have submitted to Article 5, is proposed to amend Article 5 by saying: "Dicrimination in the social life of the Republic of Serbia is manifested in the form of direct and indirect discrimination, violations of the principles of equal rights, freedom and responsibilities, calls for responsibility, association for discrimination, hate speech and harassment and humiliating treatment. "This is the definition of Article 5, which explains exactly what forms of discrimination are manifested in the social life of the Republic of Serbia. I'm going to talk about how a large social group of individuals, due to one personal quality, political determination, have been violated by the principles of equal rights, freedom and duty. Both in Serbia and in Leskovac, council members of the city's assembly suffered unprecedented pressure, all with the aim of taking away responsibility for the exercise of power and ruling the Anarchy from the DS. Dragan Gilas, mayor of Belgrade, came first for an official visit to Leskovac, so he used the proximity to jump to Kosovo's Kamenica. An excellent marketing procedure, only one in which he was wrong -- he is no longer an official of Serbia. He is the mayor of Belgrade, and can't, when he wants to, even if he is near the border with Kosovo, go there and show how he thinks of Kosovo Serbs. If he had thought of them, along with his party colleagues, Kosovo Serbs would probably now live in the province of Serbia and not be surrounded by Eulex.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16239	Anyone else want a word? Member of the 5th amendment was submitted by MP Dobrislav Prelic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Dobrislav Prelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16240	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. Minister, as usual, I have tried to give an adequate explanation. I don't know if I'm going to fit into these two minutes to convince you that you need to accept this amendment. Namely, this is: "Dicrimination occurs in the form of indirect and direct discrimination, violation of the principle of equal rights, freedom and obligations, calling for responsibility, organisation for discrimination against other citizens, humiliating treatment and harassment". I find this kind of change more concrete and clearer than what was offered. In this form, citizens will be able to identify the objective of this Article 5, and on the basis of it they will seek their protection, which is guaranteed by the Constitution, Article 21, which reads: All are equal before the Constitution and the law. Everyone has the right to equal legal protection, without discrimination. I purposely threw out the word "hate speech" not to justify such a statement or phenomenon, but there is no place in this article for the reason it is too difficult to qualify, and it is very easy to use in political accounts and should not be the basis for the abuse of this law by the trustees, for political points to his party in dealing with someone else. After all, I've already had an amendment to this subject, and it refers to Article 1. A bill of this law. This amendment of mine says that you have come easily by assembling this law, that it is full of grammatically unregulated sentences, which will only confuse those who will need to protect their rights, and those who enforce this law you give them the opportunity to use terms, concepts and everything else that occurred to you as you wrote this law, not thinking that the law does not say that it lasts while you are yellow-red in power, but for a little longer period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16241	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Filip Stojanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16242	Dear People's MPs, ladies and gentlemen, the Honorable Minister, I have submitted an amendment to Article 5. The draft law on the prohibition of discrimination, and I proposed that it be amended to read: "Dicrimination in the Republic of Serbia appears in the form of direct and indirect discrimination, violations of the principle of equal rights and obligations, calls for responsibility, organisation for discrimination, humiliating treatment and dissuasion. "Ladies and gentlemen, the promoter in Article 5 has also classified so-called hate speech. This term is not precisely defined, while our Constitution prohibits the spread and propagation of racial, religious and national hatred and impatience. The Criminal Code, which provides for adequate penalties, does the same. For the sake of modernity, you introduce the term "hating speech", which you then use on your own, and as a label you stick to your political opponents. Similar things happened in the Middle Ages of the West, when opponents of the authorities accused them of being devils. You do the same thing, you do it in gloves. That's how the Inquisition worked. Their maximum was that during the examination of the victims, blood drops should not fall to the ground. You of the regime are, therefore, a modern inquisition and instead of exorcism, you lute judges first, and then others. However, I invite you to come to your senses and accept my amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16243	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Duvnjak. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a folk ambassador, Momcilo Duvnjak.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16244	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, based on article 147. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I submit an amendment to the draft law on the prohibition of discrimination. Article 5 is amended and reads: "Dicrimination in the social life of the Republic of Serbia is manifested in the form of direct and indirect discrimination, violations of the constitutional principle of equal rights, freedom and responsibilities, calls for responsibility, association for discrimination, hate speech and harassment and humiliating treatment. "Gentlemen, here is another example of discrimination against the citizens of Kruševec. Vojvodina has an oil industry, Serbia and that is wealth, and in Krusevec we have Morava and stone aggregates, i.e. sand and gravel and that is wealth. Every year construction firms in Krusevec give a project as much as they will dig up in the course of the year. For the past eight years, the construction companies have been paying 70 dinars per cubic cent to the state of Serbia. In eight years, the town of Kruševac has not received a single penny from the state for the sand. This is the largest kind of discrimination against one city or municipality in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16245	The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Damjanovic. The government and the Justice Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by MP Jovan Damjanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16246	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, and I won't speak this time after I've given a written amendment, so from time to time, from time to time, there are some troubles that I have to appeal for and bring here at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Back about a month ago, I was saying that a solution was obtained to bring down the house of Savic Milorad in Nis, which is about 40 to 50 years old. A man lives with his family. I called the president of the municipality, the chief inspector, the building chief, and they said there would be some sort of deal. I even had to travel and meet them, but the meeting did not take place. Once again, I appeal to the local government of the town of Nis, to representatives of the local government of the town of Nis, not to destroy the house of Savic Milorad, as it is a house between 40 and 50 years old. He lives with his family. I think there are other solutions that can be found and solved, not to tear down the house. There is also the Minister of Human and Minority Rights, with whom I will have a conversation tomorrow on the World Day of Roma, to see that the issue is resolved in another way. We all know that the Roma are in a very difficult economic, social and housing situation. If we're still tearing down their houses, I'm not going to say what kind of vision it would be, because we all live in this country, we Roma don't have another country, but that's why I'm asking to find tolerance, to go out without tearing down the Roma houses. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16247	The 5th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Krstin. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been given to the People's Messenger Milorad Krstin.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16248	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I really cannot believe that in addition to these 400 amendments, submitted by the SRS parliamentary group, you simply don't want to withdraw this law, which is really neither the place nor the time. I have already submitted the fifth amendment and I say that we have more necessary amendments and amendments to the law, and it concerns amendments and additions to the Law on the lease of state-owned agricultural land, amending and supplementing the laws on agricultural cooperatives, but it seems to you from the ruling majority to say nothing. I've been called by a couple of people working in municipalities, specifically by officials who will be given a regulation by you, which is a kind of discrimination, as future technological surpluses from five to 30 years of cash compensation of 550,000 dinars. What about those who have spent in these municipalities 31, 32, 33, 34, 35, 36, 37, 38 or 39 years? Don't these people deserve to be included in that amount of $550,000, but they'll be out of a job? This is a typical example of one discrimination against those who have spent a lifetime working and will lose their jobs, and they will not get a dime.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16249	Two minutes. The 5th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Suleyman Spaho. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been given to the People's Messenger Suleiman Spaho.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16250	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I haven't really spoken to Mr. Reno about this amendment, but I'm going to explain it to you now so you can see, Mr. Minister. You should adopt it, because with this amendment you will also enter Europe. I guarantee you, I won't be an MP tomorrow if you accept, and you don't enter Europe tomorrow. I give you my word of honor. Your member of this law writes: "The forms of discrimination are direct and indirect discrimination, as well as violation of the principle of equal rights and obligations, calling for responsibility, association for discrimination, hate speech, harassment and humiliating treatment. "My amendment to Article 5 changes and reads: "Dicrimination appears in the Republic of Serbia in the form of indirect and direct discrimination, violation of the principle of equal rights, freedom and obligations, calling for responsibility, organisation for discrimination, humiliating treatment and dissensation." Believe me, this is the law that, perhaps not you directly, Mr. Minister, that in the Serbian people, but also in other citizens of the Republic of Serbia, he completely broke the moral assembly, that he no longer knows what is normal, what is not normal, what is allowed, what is not allowed, what is a man to be ashamed of and what is to be proud of. Someone wanted to destroy the moral assembly of this people, but believe me when it happens then it's over with you, Minister, and with us and the whole Serbian people. When you kill a moral assembly in one nation, then that people, believe me, are dead. That's exactly what you wanted to do with this law, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16251	The amendment was submitted by MP Milan M. Nikolic to Article 5. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Milan M. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16252	Dear People's MPs, on behalf of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to the proposed law. The amendment amends Article 5 and reads: Discrimination appears in the form of indirect and direct discrimination, violation of the constitutional principle of equal rights, freedom and responsibilities, calling for responsibility, association for discrimination against other citizens and legal persons, hate speech and humiliating treatment." This amendment should strengthen constitutional provisions, in particular Article 21. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, where citizens' rights are fully defined before the Constitution and the law, where they are all equal. Article 5 shall be attached to Article 4 and shall be subject to one declaration. She's a front for what she wanted, and it's not said. This is the main problem, which is formulated and what makes its main content normally have no special, and sometimes even any indirect relationship. This is a major problem in interpreting the law and understanding of its essence, i.e. spirit and objectives, and given that Serbia is primarily discriminated against the EU and UN organisations, so what forms of discrimination we are now discussing between ourselves. So today it takes great courage to open this issue in this way, especially Article 21 of this Law, to process and present the moral value of the Serbian people in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16253	On Article 5, the amendment was submitted by MP Sladjan Mijaljevic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's Messenger Sladjan Mijaljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16254	The presidency, my colleagues, I have submitted Amendment 275 to this contradictory and confusing law. My amendment to Article 5 reads: "Dicrimination appears in the form of indirect and direct discrimination, overcoming the constitutional principle of equal rights and obligations, calling for responsibility, organising discrimination for the discrimination of other citizens, hate speech and dissuasion and humiliating treatment". The government's argument not to accept the amendment reads: "Amendment does not change the essence and content of the provisions. The existing provision is not contrary to the rules of nomotechnics." Well, of course, it would be stupid if someone made such a mistake that the opposite of the nomotechnics rules that some member, but we put constitutional principles in here, means one concept where we enter the Constitution, while the government's proposal only includes violation of the principle of equal rights and obligations. These principles are considered very broad, on the one hand. On the other hand, we have here another hate speech and all sorts of other concepts, so it seems to me that a little bit of this law is written because of that hate speech, and no one can explain what hate speech is. The speech can be cultural and uncultural, it can be vulgar, it can be normal, and what is hate? Hate is some emotion. If someone doesn't tell you that he hates you or doesn't show it to you, you can't conclude that someone hates you, he can insult you and be rude in his speech, but not that he hates you. I really don't understand why you mention hate speech in a few members. It seems to me that you want to introduce a new verbal delinquent, as it was in Broz's time, when someone tells a joke or says something against the regime, he's responding to a verbal deliction, and now it looks like we're going to be responding to a hate speech.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16255	Two minutes. Thank you. Member of the 5th amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Petar Jojic. At the same time, I am informing the National Assembly that the amendment, which is submitted by MP Petar Jojic, is 250th in a scenario that also has representatives or authorised representatives of parliamentary groups and that at this time is available to the applicants of the amendments, so in business time of two minutes after one amendment, a total of four hours and four minutes, including the time available to MP Petar Jojic. Since the total time of the debate, time has been available to the MEP Group For European Serbia, the G17 Plus MP group, the DSS Group, the SPS-JS parliamentary group, the LDP parliamentary group, the NS and the United Pensioners Party, and from the president, or the elected representatives of the parliamentary groups, the time has been available to representatives of the MEP for eight minutes, the G17 plus 15, minutes, the DSS parliamentary group eight minutes, the parliamentary group progress Serbia 13 minutes, the SPS-JS 15 minutes, the LDP parliamentary group 15 minutes, the United Pensioners' party 15 minutes. I share a statement or notice, so we can all know how much the total time is intended for business until the end of this session's debate. People's MPs earn us nothing to worry about. Do we look like we're worried? I am giving information that amendment applicants and all other MPs can assess how much time is available and how much time is available under the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16256	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, Madam Chairman, as far as discrimination is concerned, the right to discrimination by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which has committed genocide and the greatest discrimination against individual agricultural producers. This is what the SRS is fighting for. There is discrimination where individual agricultural producers are not allowed to participate in the auctions of the vast areas of agricultural land, the highest quality in Serbia, under the same conditions. What has the Serbian government done, especially former Agriculture Minister Slobodan Milosavljevic? He concluded harmful contracts, made it impossible for peasants to participate in the purchase of combinations. The best talks about the following example, first of all, how the government allowed the profits to enter into possession, do not conclude contracts and do not pay the rent of agricultural land of the state of Serbia and its people, namely DPP "Dolovo" 242 ha, DPP "Dolovo" in move 286 ha, DPP "Dolovo" 234 ha, AD "Zlatar" Mramorak 492 ha. Do you see where the discrimination is? PIK Beccey, not to mention, in Buck and in other places, PIK "Tamish" Panchevo, it's all been kidnapped, it's all been robbed, it's been torn apart, and the thieves are getting rich. How is it possible for the government to conclude such harmful contracts and not pay the lease for 2007 and 2008. Nearly 50 billion dinars have been damaged by the state.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16257	Two minutes. Thank you. Anyone else want a word? The word comes from MP Milos Aligrudic, president of the DSS parliamentary group. Time is available for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16258	And this amendment shows how much the government does not care about what amendments are submitted and how the reason for the rejection of the amendment is explained. Peter Jojic's amendment, not to mention whether or not I support him, reads this:Article 5, which speaks about forms of discrimination, which states that one form of discrimination is hate speech, and later, in Article 11, it appears as this particular basis, he asks that the words "hate speech" be deleted in Article 5, with the explanation he has attached. The government explains the refusal of this amendment in the following way, please listen to these two sentences. The first sentence is, "Amendment is not accepted." All right, that's the government's position. The explanation is this: "Amendment is not in line with the purpose of the law", which is usually an explanation. There are no amendments under which it is not written that do not comply with the purpose of the law. That way anyone can explain the rejection of the amendment. You always say that it is not in line with the intensities or the purpose of the legislator, the one who proposed the law, and so you reject the amendment. He says, "It unnecessarily restricts the protection of discrimination, binding it solely to the institutions of the Republic of Serbia." I can understand that it is not in accordance with the purpose of the law, I can understand that it limits the prohibition of discrimination, because probably one basis of that ban is thrown out of the law. It's probably not that simple, because if you had considered it a little bit better, you'd see what it's all about, but what difference does it make? Who here tied discrimination only to the institutions of the Republic of Serbia in a concrete amendment? So that's how you explained all the other amendments, so, let's say, you're in the amendment to Article 20, which I filed, where we said that it's forbidden to deny rights or a hidden recognition of benefits from gender or gender change. That's our amendment. "Physical and other violence is forbidden, exploitation of hate expressions, demeaning, blackmailing and harassment by gender or gender change," you did not state in your bill, "and public favouring or supporting such procedures". So we stated that after Article 2, a new attitude was added, which reads: "No conduct, professional, economic or political life, is prohibited, in line with prejudices, customs and other social patterns of conduct based on the idea of subordination and the authority of sexes, i.e. stereotype roles of genders." Supporting the idea of supporting gender equality in society, and citing areas in which it must be explicitly prohibited. What are you going to do with your private life? You can't regulate your private life with this law, because if you want to law-abid one population, claiming in this law to behave normally, and it's about deviant behavior, when it comes to, let's say, people who have sexual orientation prone to homosexuality, then you can't harass others who represent the obvious majority, asking that they be depicted so-called. the pseudo-normal behaviour of a minority to dictate to them the conditions of behavior, thinking or possible speech. Then you're saying that it's regulated by some other law, that it's regulated or stabilized by the provision of Article 3. That's not true. Then we suggested that it is not considered discrimination to express an opinion on the character of traditional customs, social patterns contained in traditional cultural models, as well as the conduct of churches and religious communities, etc., in order to say something about the right to free opinion. I gave you an example that if someone goes on television, in any capacity, and says that his opinion, which doesn't have to be true, is that a woman was created by God's creation of Adam's rib. That stereotype, someone believes in it, encourages the idea of gender inequality. That's how you interpret it. This means that such a person would fall under this law and have to pay the penalty. It's not fair, it's not normal. What we wrote and told you to write a smart bill, you refused, and in your explanation you said, "Amendment is not accepted, because it is the opposite of the purpose of the law." Where is the purpose of the law hit here? In the next amendment to Article 21, where we talked about sexual freedom that speaks of the right to sexual commitment, which is a Serbian word, not a "orientation", so much about your way of writing regulations, you then said it would not be accepted, because the amendment is contrary to "the essence of the law". In our legal system, there is a ban on discrimination based on sexual definition. It is famous and exists in a series of laws that have been passed earlier in this country. It's not a questionable moment. It is disputed that you write the law in such a way that you simply invite citizens and those who feel that they are discriminated against because of some sexual orientation, that they can not only get protection because of discrimination, which is not controversial, but that they can promote the idea that they are handling in life as dominant or as an equal idea with all other ideas of behavior. If that's true, then it means that others who can express their sexual orientation, let's say, people who act that way, which we can medically or psychologically label as paedophiles, means that they too, in your opinion, would have to enjoy protection under this law. The only thing that restricts them is some other norms that say that minors can't touch each other. The constitution prohibits and prohibits other laws. You know what, as you wrote this law, it's no good. We give you good amendments, we write you something that is consistent with the intensity of the law, which should serve until the end of the purpose of this law, which, when we have defined it as a roof law, should be pedantic and beautifully written, and then you write all sorts of things, you cause a storm of anger, an avalanche of amendments you can't handle, and then you write nonsense about explanations for the amendments that you refuse, and you don't have to refuse them. So, what you've done here has nothing to do with it, and that's why you've come into the situation of telling a man who has the right to write what he wants in the amendment, to throw out hate speech as a basis, I wouldn't throw it out, but then, in the explanation of the amendment, you tell him, not only that it's the opposite purpose, but you say "limits protection only to the public institutions of the Republic of Serbia". Where does that say? Where did you read that? I've been telling you all along that you can't communicate with us like we don't exist. You must respect us. If it is not a good amendment, write down why it is not good, not that in this way, trying to talk about discrimination, playing or making a fake scene in Serbia. Here, my God, you are trying to prevent discrimination, and the state secretaries of your ministries, on behalf of their secretaries, are writing to the courts not to carry out their actions in the protection of citizens in working disputes. How can you not be ashamed? Where are we going to protect our citizens from discrimination?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16259	Thank you. Mr. Jojic reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16260	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'm happy because I'm saying you're holding a session right in the direction you're supposed to take according to the Rules of Procedure. I've been misread, you've noticed it well, and you've finally figured it out. My colleague misread me because I failed to explain things in more detail. I must say, when it comes to discrimination, that in the municipality of Kovin and in the whole of Vojvodina, I have a record of a municipal commission that concluded harmful contracts, or the ministry concluded harmful contracts, and this is about illegal use of state agricultural land. Comrade Mikovic, if you don't believe it, come out, read what it says in this committee's report. The municipal commission found that the following citizens use illegal agricultural land, besides DPP 'Dolova' and AD 'Zlatara' in Mramorko, and the following: in the populated town of Skorenovac, Kovin municipality, there is no discrimination between citizens, they do not enjoy the same rights. Who are those who usurped, according to the municipal commission's record? Gabor Gjuish, Ferenc Eresh, Laszlo Sekele, Sladjana Fako, David Boldizar, Sebescan Andras... (President: I apologize, your amendment is aimed at eradicating the term "hate speech", so please connect. )......................................................................................................... I will. This is about the hate speech. You're right, Mr. Vice President. Who is still here when it comes to hate and discrimination - Sebescan Andras from Skorenovac, Stojanov Gašpar from Skorenovac, Popović Branko from Skorenovac, Sebescan Jožef from Skorenovac, Penol Ivan from Skorenovac and Trajković Radovan from Skorenovac. All of them were called by the municipal commission, but they avoid concluding a contract on the lease of agricultural land. They're illegally using state agricultural land. For this reason, I ask the new Minister of Agriculture, Mr Dragin, to examine all the cases of the lease of state agricultural land in the Kovin municipality. They will make sure that it is a major crime, that people have only come to the bidding and taken possession, and the yellow bank has not been paid into the Republic of Serbia's budget for years. It's also hate speech, and hate for citizens, and there's discrimination, it's contained here. What happens now, Mr. Vice President? There will now be some conflicts of citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16261	Thank you. Member of the 5th amendment was submitted by MP Ljubisa Petkovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16262	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, citizens of Serbia, on behalf of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 5. The draft law on the prohibition of discrimination and proposed that Article 5 be amended and read as follows: 'Dicrimination appears in the form of indirect and direct discrimination, violation of the constitutional principle of equal rights, freedom and obligations, calling for responsibility, organisation for discrimination against other citizens and legal persons and humiliating treatment. ''The proposed amendment is in accordance with Article 21(1). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which reads: The Constitution and the law are all equal. Everyone has the right to equal legal protection, without discrimination. The proposed amendment has not been adopted by the Legislative Committee, I do not expect it to accept the majority of the assembly, because you do not respect the ruling coalition, nor do you implement the highest legal act, such as the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. If in Article 21. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia states that before the Constitution and the law, everyone is equal, why do you allow the UN tribunal to discriminate against prisoners of Serbian nationality, especially according to the president of the SRS, Dr Vojislav Seselj? Has the government ever formally objected to The Hague's tribunal's violation of its basic rights, or is it only occasionally and shyly advertised in public information? I have the impression that The Hague tribunal and current officials in Serbia are involved in a joint joint discriminatory procedure against Dr Vojislav Seselj, president of the SRS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16263	Does anyone else want to follow this amendment? (No) The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Mr. Alexander Martinovic. Here, you have a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16264	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I tried to explain this morning, in a very cultural way, that the President of the National Assembly was wrong when he warned the MPs of the SRS to cause noise. I tried to draw her attention to the fact that she hears noise, that's true, but not on this side where SRS MPs sit, but to hear the noise of Serbian citizens, who are obviously dissatisfied with the situation they are in, and who, above all, are unhappy with the fraud by the government that was formed last year. Citizens were promised to live in a state of social justice, to move rapidly towards the EU, to have hundreds of thousands of jobs, to no longer be poor, etc. We see thousands of people out of work these days. By the end of 2009, it says, there will be 300,000 citizens of Serbia without a job and that hook from the streets of Serbia is being transferred here to the National Assembly. That's what Ms. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic hears, as Mrs. Gordana Komic hears, not the noise caused by SRS lawmakers. When we try this in a civilized way to explain it to the president, or the chairman, we get a warning. This is your best example of how the MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia are discriminated against. It is undeniable to hear noise, but it is the noise of a poor and deceived world, it is the noise of citizens of Serbia who have been rudely deceived to live better, and in fact they will live much worse than they lived in 2008. I have an interesting story, but due to lack of time, I'll continue later.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16265	Thank you. The 5th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Buh. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Do you, Mr. Buha, want to explain the amendment? Here, you have a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16266	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the government of Republika Srpska in persecution has referred hundreds of protest notes to various international humanitarian organisations, EU missions, UN organisations and other institutions, as well as to the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia and pointed to various forms of discrimination against Serbs in the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Croatia, and many forms of discrimination against the Serb population in both Croatia and Serbia. I'll just list some forms of discrimination here. Of those most difficult, it is a genocide policy of the Croatian state, ethnic cleansing, killings that are present after 95 years, also present today, various forms of serious and easier physical injuries, then other discriminatory procedures such as shagging, harassment on a national and religious basis, various forms of arrest, detention, Serb hearings returning to the Republic of Croatia. Then various forms of discrimination committed in front of judicial and administrative authorities, municipal authorities and senior state bodies of the Republic of Croatia, as well as other forms of discrimination in the area of culture and language of the Serb national minority in the Republic of Croatia. What needs to be concerned is the irresponsibility and unprinciplement of Serbian state authorities, who are not doing anything to help these discriminatory actions of the Croatian authorities, above all, be made public here, to internationalise the issue of the Serb population and to help the Serb population in terms of the return of all those lost and deprived rights. [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16267	Thank you. Member of the 5th Amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Vukovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Do you want a word? Here, you have a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16268	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected citizens, and primarily respected citizens, as you can see, we've been talking here for days about the law of discrimination. In accordance with Article 147, I have submitted an amendment to Article 5. Article 5 is amended and reads: "Dicrimination in the social life of the Republic of Serbia is manifested in the form of direct and indirect discrimination, violation of the principle of equal rights, freedom and obligations, calling for responsibility, association for discrimination, hate speech and harassment and humiliating treatment." I'm just going to draw attention to a few experiences of the people in all of Serbia. First example, is discrimination if we all know that in Belgrade under democratic rule they want to place the Roma population in non-populated areas? Isn't that ghettoisation and discrimination? This is the first case. Another example is the public secret that in schools parents who are better able to provide their children, with the knowledge of the law and the organization in which it happens, parking lots, chairs better, etc.? Is it true that kindergartens are formed for Roma children? Yes, it is. Is it true that in this country in many ways pensioners' rights are violated, workers' rights? What did you promise these eight years? It's all discrimination. This Serbian people are discriminated against in general. Minister Ciplic is waiting here for two days, listening, and I assume that within a very short period of five minutes, he will provide an explanation for all these painful points of the Serbian people. Thank you. I'm running out of time.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16269	Thank you. Member of the 5th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Acimovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16270	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to the draft law on the prohibition of discrimination. Article 5 is amended and reads: "The appearances of discrimination are direct and indirect discrimination, violation of the principle of equal rights and obligations, calling for responsibility, association for discrimination, hate speech and harassment and humiliating treatment". I believe that this is a great protection and care for homosexuals and religious sects that you give Serbian citizens an open invitation to join these groups. This isn't just about protecting their rights, it's about encouraging their pandemic. I believe that everyone has the right to have sex, but leave it in four walls. This law creates another step that will allow two men or two women to get married publicly, then adopt children, who will become victims of sick minds. Although homosexuality medicine from a few years ago suggests it's not a disease and claims it's some kind of hormonal disorder, it's a disease and it doesn't need to be promoted publicly. This legislative project has been hit by seven traditional religious communities and 95% of Serbian citizens, only because of some who are employers and who daily blackmail us with some laws, and they do not apply them in their own countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16271	Thank you. Member of the 5th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Pai Momchilov. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Do you want a word? Here you go, Mr. Momchilov.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16272	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, the Honorable President, we are leading a long, absurd, deaf debate. We point to some solutions that we think are better. There's no answer. I don't think there's any need to make any more effort to point out something seriously to the promoter, because he won't answer our remarks. For an explanation of the amendments for two minutes, the Europeans find me in which European Parliament still exists, in which another civilized country there is, so let's congratulate you. There is already absolute discrimination against the opposition. What's even worse is that it's already quite clear that human rights are being violated here, freedom of speech. We're censored. We're being punished. Who's being punished? The one who only argues. Those who are silent, they are good and they are God-given to this congregation. But let me just take a yearly look at Article 5, where we added a violation of the constitutional principle of equality to represent a form of discrimination. See what you have answered – the amendment is not accepted, the essence and the content provision are not changed, and it says that the existing provision is not contrary to the rules of the nomoch. Who told you it's the opposite of what you put in with the rules of nomotechnics? What are you making up? What are you writing nonsense? Your law is decadent. Your arguments are stupid and it is an insult to this House's dignity. Mr. Minister, if I'm wrong, go ahead and kill me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16273	Member of the 5th amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Žutic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Do you want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milan Avramovic. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Mr. Avramović, do you want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16274	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted the amendment itself to Article 5, in which I ask that the current text delete the words "as well as." Just so there's no abuse, as well - that means he can't and he doesn't have to. I asked for those words to be erased. However, the government has rejected this amendment with an explanation that the text does not change the essence and does not change the form of the law, which is absolutely clear, but is not precise. By adopting this law, we become aware that discrimination in the Serbian Parliament is legalized, that discrimination in the general state of our society is legalized, that beating up those youth and children who sang Serbian songs last night is legalized. Discrimination is practically legalized both here in the legislative body and in this executive body. Is discrimination divided into indirect and direct? We can come to a conclusion. When the chairman of the Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic Assembly is held, it is an indirect discrimination, and when Mrs Comic ambushes, it is a direct discrimination. Does discrimination have a more difficult or easier form? There's only more to be presented here. What's an easier form of discrimination? Are those false promises? Is the story of Fiat discrimination, of free shares, of visas, of cheaper software, of a life that can't wait? Are mass layoffs discrimination? Are free action discrimination? Is robbery privatisation discrimination? Is racketeering Belgrade citizens discrimination? Is keeping a job with the poles of discrimination? When you answer these questions, then we can even discuss this law, until then, everything is pointless. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16275	The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Todorovic. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Mr. Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16276	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 5, and I think my proposal is much clearer and more concrete than the Government's proposal. Unfortunately, the government has not accepted, as has not accepted almost one amendment, but I would very much like to point out this amendment and the problems that arise in our country, especially when it comes to the violation of the principle of equal rights and obligations. I ask the question - who in this country has rights and who has obligations? Do both states and citizens have rights and obligations or do only one have rights and the other have obligations? The most dramatic example is an example related to the accounts that came from Infostan by Dragan Gilas, who in an unsuitable way seduces terror DS and is trying to fill the empty budget of the city of Belgrade. Although, Mr. Chiplic, you were the Constitutional Court judge, you must stand in the protection of the rights of Serbian citizens, the Fourth Court called and said that all these warnings and these receipts that have arrived have not been processed, all the decisions that have been made have arrived and the citizens of Serbia should not pay these bills. This is a robbery of citizens of Belgrade, and I call on you -- don't pay these bills, don't pay DS and Dragan Gilas for bringing both the state and the city of Belgrade into this situation! You, Minister, not only you, but I call on the government to respond to such a drastic example of violation of the rights of the citizens of Belgrade... (President: I thank you. ..to do something and not let the citizens of Belgrade rob themselves.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16277	Mrs. Milica Vojic-Markovic wants to follow this amendment. Here you go. You've got 13 minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16278	Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, the principle of equality, the principle that all people have the same rights and the same freedom is not just a legal standard, it's a moral imperative and it has to be obviously a moral imperative for us here today. I'll instruct you to look at the constitution brought by the government of Vojislav Kostunica, so when you read it a little bit, it'll be much clearer to you what I'm talking about. Let me remind you of one more thing. In April 2006 The government of Vojislav Kostunica has proposed, and this assembly adopted, the first true anti-discrimination law that applies today, which is the Law on preventing discrimination against persons with disabilities. How did he get that law then? In one democratic way, as all laws were passed at the time when the prime minister was Vojislav Kostunica. It has been negotiated with persons with disabilities, negotiated with parliamentary groups, negotiated for so long until the law was brought here unanimously, voted in favour of him both the position and the opposition. Compare what I'm saying today with how this law came on the agenda. It was on the agenda, the night before the session that law was withdrawn from the agenda. Namely, it was said that it was necessary to bring it into line with the sovereign communities and traditional churches. And then, the next day, Minister Ljajic, who was in charge of the bill all the time, even though we have the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights, and how she argued that this ministry was formed when the Law on Government was here in front of MPs, so, and then Minister Ljajic said – no, we will not agree, it is all negotiated, the law will return in the same form to the agenda in the Assembly. So that's one complete cycle. Now let's go back to that blanket in public that you made this law. It turns out that in that storm, according to that anger that can be heard among ordinary people when you're moving among these ordinary people, and you're obviously not moving, it turns out that you've only adopted the bill for one thing – to protect only and exclusively the sexual orientation of an individual, as if it's not a completely private matter, and even among the amendments you've adopted is the one that says that sexual orientation is a private matter of an individual, which is finding a flat hole in a potsy or warm water. I'm sorry, please, that's the amendment you accepted. There have been so many good amendments here, so many amendments that, as they correct the essence of this law, you from the ruling coalition have accepted that. I have to remind you, obviously you're not familiar with the research done in this country, and these researches are conducted, as far as I know, by NGOs, and I believe you're following them, I mean not NGOs, but research. According to these surveys, the following categories of population were most discriminated against in Serbia: first - persons with disabilities, second - Roma, third - women. When we talk about this first category, about people with disabilities, it's the most endangered minority, not just in this country, but in the world. Among the 20% of those extremely poor, the highest number is precisely the person with disabilities. In developing countries 98% of disabled children do not attend school. Do you have the information, Mr. Minister, what is the state of our country? Of the 100% of children living on the street, 30% are those who have some form of disability. The literacy rate of adults with disabilities is only about 3%. So, gentlemen, you have with your stupidity and your boastfulness, which every time you show, people with disabilities simply disfellowshipped, they are an invisible part of this population, Mr. Minister. In this way, by making the circus out of the law, you took away the right to education, took away the right to treatment, to take away the right to work, to take away the right to freedom of movement, to take away the right to religious expression, to take away the right to political expression. So, do you think you did a donkey and a bear service to this population that didn't deserve it? The next category of population is Roma. There are between 500,000 and a million of them in this country because they have no documents; 250,000 Roma populations live in unsanitary settlements; 44% of Roma settlements have no infrastructure. When we talk about Roma education, 61% doesn't have a primary school, 8% only has a high school. Where are the rights and freedoms of the Roma, Mr. Minister? I guess this law was made and should be designed to protect the rights of the Roma category. You're responsible for not speaking of them in this law at all. The next category is your wives. At least 52% of Serbia's population are women. They work in less paid jobs. When it comes to their rights to work, the famous question, which is beyond all discrimination – whether you may be pregnant or will soon be pregnant. Is there more discrimination, Mr. Minister? Women are victims of transition. You don't know anything about it or you don't care about it, you keep your mouth shut all day and today, and before last day, don't say anything about it. You know how they say what an accident is in Serbia – when you're a person with disabilities and also a woman, then, as far as discrimination is concerned, I can't even compare you, it would be really ugly and vulgar. What's a shame, too, is a disgrace to you, as Minister of Human and Minority Rights, but it's a boon and a disgrace to this government, which humiliates this country so that it can't be scarier. You will bring the country into bankruptcy by the end of the year, you will bring the country into bankruptcy, which is a law of this kind, of which there really should be one complete continuity, there must be agreement in this assembly among all citizens of Serbia, because I do not believe that in Serbia you have 2% of citizens who will say that the law that prevents discrimination should not be on the agenda of the Assembly. So, you are one incompetent and arrogant government, who needs to leave this country to make such laws and how they apply in Serbia, because you don't respect them first.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16279	The 5th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Marina Toman. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Mrs. Toman, you have your word, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16280	Ladies and gentlemen, with the amendment, we propose that Article 5, which determines the forms of discrimination, changes and reads: "Dicrimination appears in the Republic of Serbia in the form of direct and indirect discrimination, violation of the constitutional principle of equal rights and obligations, calling for responsibility, organising discrimination, humiliating treatment and dissuasion". The government rejected the amendment with reasons – that it does not change the essence and content of the provisions, and that the existing provision is not contrary to the rules of nomochnik, although the amendment proposes an amendment to strengthen the constitutional provision of Article 21. The Constitution. So there are already constitutional guarantees for protection against discrimination, and for this reason the Government should not be bothered by the solution we have proposed, especially because of the suggestions that they do not see what the problem is, because the law does not bring anything that is contrary to what is stated in the Constitution. Otherwise, this is just another political law, which does not reflect the state's willingness to engage in the fight against discrimination. Unfortunately, it will happen that on this European path, the government forgets that the law is not only passed because of the law, but that its application in practice or that may have already happened. The government, with its view, rejects the more precise definitions and interpretation of certain provisions and at least somewhat corrects the many illogicalities this law makes, neutralizes the last argument it has defended – that the adoption of this law must correct the many shortcomings that our legal regulations in this area have. So I suggest you accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16281	Thank you. Member of the 5th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marko Milenkovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Here you go, Mr. Milenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16282	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment is in fact a logical trail of previous amendments, submitted in order to strengthen the constitutional provisions of Article 21. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia on the prohibition of discrimination, and the text of the law adapts more to more logical legal terminology. The adoption of this amendment would more precisely define forms of discrimination. When it comes to discrimination against the citizens of the Lower Guard at Prokuplje, the beatings brought by the subcontractors raided the Autopad, which holds one of the citizens of the Lower Guard, Nebojsa Ivanovic, told him that they would kill him because it prevents the construction of the dump, that they would remove his brain, spill his skull, as was done in Jasenovac. While one of them had a gun pointed at him, the other stabbed him with a screwdriver several times in the leg, and then beat him with whatever they got, threatened to drop his bomb and kill his family. Here, you can all, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, see what Nebojsa Ivanovic looks like and judge for yourself, whether it is discrimination by local authorities and its contractors. (The emissary shows the picture from the paper. ) Prokupska Municipality council reportedly reacted, made a decision to look for a new location to build a regional dump, while forming a commission, which was subsequently prevented from working. Now, regardless of the municipal council's decision, local authorities and contractors do not give up on the construction of the dump, because the total value of its construction is about 10m euros, and accordingly, you see that it is a majority democracy and that discrimination is prohibited.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16283	The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Mr. Markovic, you have your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16284	I thought, Mr. Minister, that you, as an intellectual, as former Constitutional Court judge, would notice the difference between the proposal I made in the amendment and the text of Article 5, and that you would decide on a better solution. I expect that after I'm done, you come out and say you accept this amendment, because what it says here -- this is a nice writing assignment for some high school kid, literary work. He writes what forms of discrimination are and says: "The forms of discrimination are direct and indirect discrimination, as well as violation of the principle of public rights and obligations etc." It's a description of what forms of discrimination are. And when it responds by law to forms of discrimination that appear in society, because form as a form doesn't have to appear in some society. I expect that when the yellow government leaves, when it comes down from the Serb hump, there must be a lot of discrimination with that yellow authority leaving. I propose the text for Article 5 of the Law: "Dicrimination appears in the form of indirect and direct discrimination, overcoming the constitutional principle of equal rights, freedom and obligations, calling for responsibility, organising for discrimination against other legal entities, hate speech and dissuasion and humiliating treatment. "So you here in the text have a description of what discrimination is. Legal norms must be short and clear, concise and applicable. With this Article 5, this law is inapplicable to you. To finish that story about Article 18, where you were rudely wronged by officials in local self-government.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16285	Thank you. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Paunovic-Milosavljevic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Here you go, Mrs. Paunović-Milosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16286	On behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 5. Proposal for a law prohibiting discrimination. Article 5 refers to forms of discrimination: "The forms of discrimination are direct and indirect discrimination, as well as violation of the principle of equal rights and obligations, calling for responsibility, association for discrimination, hate speech, harassment and humiliating treatment". This Article 5 is amended and reads: "Dicrimination appears in the form of indirect and direct discrimination, violation of the constitutional principle of equal rights, freedom and responsibilities, calling for responsibility, association for discrimination against other citizens and legal persons and humiliating treatment. "The amendment is not accepted in the government's explanation because it does not change the essence and content of the provisions. The explanation that I have stated is that this amendment strengthens the constitutional provision laid down in Article 21. So, this amendment doesn't mention the term "hate speech." The "hate speech" is by the SRS, or the SRS thinks that hate speech cannot be in this and in any law, because it is not a legal concept anywhere in the world, so there is no law as a crime. It's a fictional term, and it's just...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16287	Thank you. It's been two minutes. Member of the 5th amendment was submitted by MP Branimir Djokic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Vukicevic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is Mrs. Vukicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16288	Dear citizens, the SRS has submitted nearly 260 amendments, and one amendment has been accepted. So that I don't explain it now and talk about it, judge and judge for yourself what it's all about. But in addition to what's been repeated countless times today after this pay phone, which we could hear, which is that we're all equal before the Constitution and the law, here's how much we're equal to, look at what our reality is, what Serbia is and how we live. This is the front page of a daily magazine, a daily newspaper, where it says "The Army of the Hungry, a million without a job." So, I'm not going to comment on that either, this front page is enough. That's Serbia today. As far as discrimination is concerned, in addition to the fact that discrimination should not and should not be in any form, the loneliness of a single event that took place yesterday in Novi Sad. So several NGOs protested at last yesterday's Salon of books in Novi Sad because it appeared at the salon, as the NGO calls it, the clerofastic organisation "Feed". You can judge whether it's discrimination or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16289	Thank you. Member of the 5th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Mr. Stevanović has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16290	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I have submitted the amendment to Article 5. You rejected it with the same explanation as before – because it does not change the essence of the proposed member. Article 5 The proposal for this law deals with forms of discrimination. In terms of forms of discrimination, I would like to call for a discussion of one of the parliamental majority MPs who had just been behind a pay phone and who had been talking for almost 10 or 15 minutes about a kind or one form of discrimination. I think you owe him some answers, so I'd remind you now what he was saying, so if you find it appropriate, it wouldn't be bad for you to tell us a word about it. This is what the minority representative spoke of, but in all his time dedicated to the story, he never devoted a moment to either racial, religious, political, or national discrimination. He spoke of one form of discrimination, I would call it an economic form of discrimination, which has not known either race, nor gender, nor nation, nor political membership, and the government in Serbia, above all DS, has brutally implemented it for eight years. I am asking you now whether the economic discrimination, which the MP has negotiated a little bit, implies, or whether you have seen it through this law, is it defined as one of the forms of discrimination, whether in the future and how the government will behave, treat this fact, how will the government of the Republic of Serbia, the executive authority that is dominantly made by DS, build mechanisms that will counter the economic discrimination that you brutally execute against the citizens of Serbia, regardless of all their differences that are present in Serbia?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16291	The word is Mr. Dragan Shormaz. Your parliamentary group has seven minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16292	And this amendment, as well as the amendments submitted by the DSS, and because of this unconstitutional Rules of Procedure, the question arises whether at all we will be able, because let's say, the first of our next amendments is only from Article 13, and that we are discussing and that we are talking about the amendments that we have submitted, not to talk about here, but to correct a very bad bill, if it is even possible to do so. The whole bill, in fact, and its adoption, has been designed by this incompetent Government of the Republic of Serbia by the very first submission, by withdrawing, by some kind of public dispute and debate. We just heard from counterpart Milice Vojić-Marković, instead of applying the Protection Act against Discrimination of Persons with Disabilities, we are now passing a new law that is supposed to be passed because of the Schengen list. In essence, the whole debate we see in public, although MPs try not to present it that way, at least MPs who speak, and these are MPs of the opposition, not the ruling majority, has actually come down to the public expression of a small group, otherwise the former rock band Family called it a small group of gays, part of a population calling themselves homosexuals. But only one small part of them actually advocates, and it all comes down to first pushing their foot into the door that they have succeeded in this law, opening it up for themselves, and then it's going to be a turn, as soon as they get a little bit out of the door, and suggesting that they can get married, adopt children, and so on. It all comes down to their desire to organise themselves in Serbia, at least in Belgrade and Novi Sad, a gay parade, and that police have an obligation to protect them, and that those who take their opinion against it should be warned that it is discrimination and should not do so. Imagine if we were building straight parades in Serbia, imagine making parades of people who are normal. Of course that's not gonna happen, because normal people won't do it, that's what people who are disturbed do. Right, Doctor? It's true, the World Health Organization said it wasn't a disease, but it also said it was a disorder. Now imagine if there was a straight parade, what would that look like? It destroys all moral norms in Serbia. It destroys what is the tradition of the Serb people, what is the Serbian state. You do it anyway at every turn. That's why we need to take you down from power as soon as possible, because you literally lead the country into bankruptcy, destroy it in all segments of society and, worst of all, destroy what is tradition, history, culture, the moral value of the Serbian people with such suggestions. Why would we all agree, the vast majority of this people who are normal to such public representation of scrimmage, detestableness, uglyness, immorality, disorder? Let them do it in private in their homes, no one mind. In no way will they be discriminated against, but why public representation? It has already been said here, more people with disabilities are at risk in Serbia, more women's rights, Roma, women's rights are at stake in Serbia, I repeat. On this, we have been talking for a long time, fighting the Committee on Gender Equality. Nothing changes. You look at the media. You control them. Look at the printed media. Look at the daily press. Look at the yellow press. Look at the weekbooks. In each you'll find, if not every day, at least once a week's joke about blondes. What, to build a blonde society to protect themselves? Isn't that how they were discriminated against? No one's responding to that. None of you have ever come out to rebel for that. Look at the next case. A woman named Maria Milatovic wrote to us. She's usually a professional pilot. The public firm JAT Airways won't take her to work for a long time. The director, as far as I know from the SPO, is the modern European right, not in the IPP. A woman can't possibly get a job, but a capable, brave woman. The woman who finished this profession, who isn't just finished, has no way of getting a job. And there is, if you didn't know, the Association of Women of the Flyers of Serbia. So, they try women, they fight, they talk, but they can't get their turn. Why does this law have to be passed? Cyprus is missing, and it is in the EU. What's with the arches? I have a suggestion. Here, all the laws needed to enter the visa regime, give them in one session, and pass quickly, but first to come Boris Tadic here and swear he will not sign an agreement on the visa regime if it does not apply to the entire state of Serbia, if not to those MPs who are from Kosovo, if it does not apply to my friend Mark Jaksic, if it does not apply to the 120,000 Serbs living in KIM, if it does not apply to all citizens of Serbia, including Albanians, members of the Albanian national minority living in Serbia, i.e. in the territory of the southern province of KIM. Here, I won't take any amendments. If that's the obligation, go ahead, give all those laws to the public, so we don't talk about them, but Mr. Tadic swears he won't sign if it doesn't work... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16293	Thank you. It's been seven minutes. Mr. Delic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16294	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, when I read this law, we see that his draft was done in 2007. In Serbia, many things have changed since 2007. Our insistence, when the debate was in principle, to consider the recommendations of the European Commission on racism and intolerance from 97, where they gave more opportunities to what this specialised authority in Serbia should look like, and among other things, that it could be a commission, that it could be an ombudsman, a deputy ombudsman or some parliamentary committee, and certainly what you predicted, the Commissioner for Protection against Discrimination. However, you certainly had to bear in mind the situation of Serbia today. Every minister comes here with his own law predicts an agency, a trustee, a protector. After you, someone else will come by when we talk about the rights of the child, so they'll suggest, what should be adopted, that we also have a protector of the rights of the child. When we discuss environmental laws at the next session, the environment minister will propose a chemical agency, which should certainly exist in Serbia, but that all means further multiplication of the administration, further pressure on the budget. And we, as MPs here in the Assembly, when we read one law first, watch what this burden is on the budget and when we see that there is no burden on the citizens of Serbia and on the budget, then it is easier and easier for us to adopt such a law. We have seen here that since next year, the implementation of this law will cost 40 million dinars. For this reason, it was absolutely our insistence that you consider and accept the initiatives that some of the bodies that already exist, such as the protection of citizens who have four of their deputies, are doing the jobs provided for in this law. I have submitted an amendment to Article 24 which says that discrimination against the Vlaha ethnic group is prohibited by administrative insertion of Romanian language and letters as their mother in schools where they are educated. The explanation, Mr. Minister, that this was resolved by other laws is fine, but Vlach is not discriminated against by individuals, in this way Vlahe is discriminated against by the state, because the state is Romaniaising the Vlach. We will have protests in all of eastern Serbia in autumn for such a solution. I know you don't need to single out any ethnic groups and any national minorities in the law. So I would accept your explanation, but only on condition that the state of Serbia takes care of this in the future. To Article 21, Mr. Minister, I have received the answer that my proposal is contrary to the very essence of the law, and the difference between the amendments you have accepted and the amendments that I have proposed is only that in the amendment that you have accepted, everything stands in one sentence, in one position, and in the amendment that I have given, it stands the same, but in two positions. The assessment that something is contrary to the very essence of the law absolutely does not stand or I cannot assess what it is. Mr. Minister, I conclude from that that someone was very unserious, someone who read these 450 or 470 amendments, and the MPs may have done more than in any other law to make an effort to make amendments that are almost all meaningful, so that the answers to our amendments, even though they were not accepted, should have been made sense. I hereby do not advocate that my amendment be accepted because the essence of my amendment has been accepted, but I certainly cannot accept your explanation, because it is exactly the opposite of the essence of that law. One more thing, Mr. Minister, when you explained or tried to explain why you did not accept the initiative that another body is doing this job, another body that already exists in Serbia, and we suggested that it be a protection of citizens or one of its deputies, you then called again on these committee opinions, on their recommendations, and you also said that a similar recommendation was made by the European Commission, and that you were praised by the Venice Commission of the Council of Europe. Mr. Minister, it is much more important that you be commended by the MPs or commended by the citizens of Serbia. They will not commend you if you introduce new 30 or 40 people with this law. That means that it takes 10 or 15 new offices, which means it needs a few cars, which means it needs phones, and we're listening here today in the hallway saying from the ruling majority that the government is seriously considering reducing the number of ministries. All this stuff we're doing is just the opposite. When it comes to these recommendations, however, it should be understood that these are only recommendations and that they only show the way that, practically, the Serbian government should go when writing these laws. We have also heard from the predecessors that there are certain countries, EU members, who have not regulated these issues. Many of the questions raised in this law have been regulated in other laws. I accept the explanation that Serbia needs a roof law that would practically include what was given in some other laws, but when the laws are written again, I insist that the recommendations should be respected, that any help that is well-intentioned should be accepted, but still listen to the citizens of Serbia. How do you explain to anyone that when people lose jobs, when the most optimistic option is that every month three thousand people are out of work, we think that the number of people in the state administration, who's already received about 30,000, is increasing again, and we know that we're going to have to do that somewhere? In this case, by my own discretion, we didn't have to. When Mr. Dulic's environmental laws come up, I know we're going to have to think about that chemical agency or when that child protection law comes up, when they propose child protectors, I'll definitely be in that group to support that proposal. But that's why every minister doesn't need to come here to think only of himself and his ministry. I guess the government should be unique, and I guess each of us, both the MP and the minister and his state secretaries and assistants, must take care of both rationality and what is good for the citizens of Serbia. Once again, Mr. Minister, I repeat, your explanation for article 21 is absolutely unacceptable to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16295	Thank you, Mr. Delic. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Škrbic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Mr. Squirt, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16296	Dear citizens of Serbia, I think it is best that we talk to you, because it is obvious that out of so many amendments sent by the SRS parliamentary group only one has been accepted. For your sake, there are many things that have not been said so far, because you will be the ones to judge in the end, regardless of what the parliamentary majority is likely to pass this law. I have submitted an amendment to Article 5, which I will not read, in order to save time, but I will repeat, as many MPs have so far, that the amendment proposes to amend that member of the bill, in order to strengthen the constitutional provision of Article 21. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia on the ban on discrimination, which reads: "The Constitution and the law are all equal" etc. According to at least so far, the majority of the opposition's statements, as well as certain members of the government, such as A member of your coalition of Mr Dragan Markovic Palma, the leader of Unity Serbia, MPs and mayor of Jagodina, agreed with many citizens, who said, "If homosexuals are to lead Serbia into Europe, then we better stay and keep sheep in Serbia and in the country." We will see if you will have a majority vote tomorrow, given that the Ministry of Faith gave a negative opinion on the bill, and the absurdity is that at that cabinet session Minister Bogoljub Šijakovic was not present. He was so interested. That's the truth that no one's told yet, but the facts are like that. We also have the Center for the Promotion of Legal Studies, one of the authors of this law, Mr. Sasha Gajin, who said, among other things, "The point of the law is to protect all those who are discriminated against, all those who represent a margin in this society." What's been going on so far? The constitution was that...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16297	Thank you. It's been two minutes. Member of the 5th amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Maric. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Mrs. Maric, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16298	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 5. Proposal for a law on the prohibition of discrimination, but on the basis of Article 147. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The amendment proposes to amend that member of the draft law in order to strengthen the constitutional provision laid down in Article 21. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia on the prohibition of discrimination. Article 5 of the proposed law is amended and reads: "Dicrimination appears in the form of indirect and direct discrimination, violation of the constitutional principle of equal rights, freedom and obligations, calling for responsibility, organisation for discrimination against other legal entities, hate speech and dissuasion and humiliating treatment". I believe that this amendment is more complete and clear than the solution offered in Article 5. First of all, we from the SRS insist on the constitutional principle, but you don't. I remind you that the Constitution of Serbia, as the highest legal act, is a guarantee of human rights and freedom. That is why the Constitution itself prohibits discrimination. It is therefore necessary in Article 5 to point out the importance of this constitutional principle.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16299	The 5th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Elena Christmas-Talian. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Mrs. Italian isn't here. Member of the 5th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marina Ragush. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Mrs. Ragush, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16300	Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, Ministers, what is being raised as a logical question: why is this law on the fight against discrimination in Serbia, which has witnessed only examples of discrimination on any basis for the past nine years? What the SRS parliamentary group has been fraternising, and we have been waiting for the end of the debate in detail on this bill, is also a recent example of a truly very brutal event and brutal political discrimination, and it is about LDP President Cedomir Jovanovic. The LDP is indeed an angry political opponent of the SRS. It seems that we will never meet as far as political attitudes are concerned. It's about principle. It's about what we warned about at the beginning of last year, from the middle of last year, and it's about the media link of political inexperiences. We are here, personally, behind this speaker, I have expressed fear and fear that today, tomorrow, Cedomir Jovanovic, the family of Dr Vojislav Seselj, anyone could encounter someone on the street and suffer perhaps even the most disgusting outcome, that someone would take his life because such an climate or such an atmosphere had been created. What is totally unacceptable to us, that none of you, until today's colleagues, of Mr. Jovanovic's fellow Members, thought to protect the principle that we are all equal and that no one in this society or on this planet has the right to discriminate against anyone on any basis. It's sad that this is the story of the SRS, whose media campaign you stuck the label to a supporter of the totalitarian regime.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16301	Thank you. It's been two minutes. Mrs. Judita Popovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16302	Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament and MPs, listening to discussions over the past few days, I think we might be able to draw from this whole discussion three concrete and important issues to which we should look, and this is about the importance of this law. As a first question, I would mark the fact that this is about one framework law. It is a law that creates a legal environment in which the state undertakes to be equal, that is, its bodies to treat everyone equally. When I think - to everyone, it means to everyone, so to those who are different, to those who are often in the minority. Secondly, I would particularly like to underline the fact that this law actually shows up a new institution, which is a trustee, and also foresees serious sanctions in the event of discrimination. For the first time, we can also apply a law that, in addition to prohibiting intolerance, prohibits discrimination, and also foresees concrete consequences if against that ban. The third question I would like to point out is that it is a completely wrong interpretation of a segment of this law. We've often heard of this pay phone quite xenophobic statement. We've heard something about marriages of the same sex, supposedly this law promotes homosexual marriages. I can tell you responsibly about this pay phone, like everyone else, that although I have read the law from the first to the last member, I have not seen any provision that foresees anything in that regard. As you know very well, you sitting here, MPs, in the Constitution, the law is precisely defined as to marriage. The constitution predicts that marriage is concluded between a man and a woman. Family law also predicts the fact that marriage is concluded, officially concluded, by men and women in front of state authorities, so before the parent. This law does not introduce homosexual marriages, and it would be good for all people who listen to the discussion of the law on the ban on discrimination. Why do we need this law? Because that's how we create a social climate for tolerance. It takes this country's tolerance for this very reason, because over the past 20 years we've had opportunities for very many xenophobias, very much fear of a different one, and now it's necessary to create a social climate that will change this relationship with minorities. The power of a society is manifested precisely in its relationship with minorities. So, most people should respect that minority, not to endanger it, to be tolerated. We are, unfortunately, an economic, political and moral failure of society. So it's time to start over, it's time to start building some tolerance. Looking at all of you sitting here like this, I can tell you that each and every one of you, and I too, at some point in our lives, can become a victim of discrimination. You can choose which reason for discrimination you may suffer one day, but in any case, each of you can be a victim of discrimination. Not just you, but every citizen of our country, because everyone can at some point become a minority and they can distract someone, most of them get distracted, because he's a minority, whether because his nose is longer, whether because he's older, whether he's sicker, whether he has some other personal traits that can somehow cause an intolerant reaction. Therefore, I suggest that you be selfish in the voting day, if anything, for these selfish reasons to vote for this anti-discrimination law. As far as our amendments are concerned, two LDP amendments have been accepted. That's how this law got quality. However, two LDP amendments were not accepted. One refers to the provision of a guarantee by the state for the impartiality of the state towards religious communities. This is what is provided for in Article 18, which is ad hoc and hastily changed, after being withdrawn from the procedure by the original legislative proposal. This amendment wanted to improve this article as it now reads, to provide some kind of guarantee that the state, as far as religious communities are concerned, would be completely impartial, because a member, as it is marked and created, does not guarantee this very impartiality. The second amendment applies to Article 27, with us proposing that, as regards health discrimination bans, it is also pointed out that discrimination is prohibited especially against the hiv positive persons and members of their family, and this is for the reason that at least 20,000 people living in Serbia today who are suffering from this serious disease, and it is necessary for this disease to be pointed out first, and it is not bad for one law, such as this one concerning the prohibition of discrimination, and the Hiv positive people and members of their family to be protected in some way. It is not enough to protect itself on the basis of a health-based ban on discrimination, but that the AIDS, as a disease, as a common widespread disease, which is treated quite seriously in the world, is highlighted in the right plan. Therefore, I reiterate that it must not happen that this law focuses solely on one segment of discrimination, and that one segment unfortunately in public is quite misused, which is discrimination based on sexual orientation. It is pointed out that it is a law that propagates and predicts married homosexual couples. I say it again, it's not about that. It is a law that has only indicatively provided for all possible discrimination that can arise. Therefore, it is good that we have one law that forms the basis for building a tolerance society. I repeat again, be selfish, so if anything else, vote for yourself for this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16303	Thank you. Mr. Vladan Batic. You've got three minutes left. Later? Member of the 5th amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Mr. Mirovic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16304	Ladies and gentlemen, the amendment has been submitted to Article 5. The draft law and its purpose is to point out the importance of precise definition of the legal concepts used in the laws. This is especially important because Article 5 mentions the concept of hate speech. The hate speech must be defined in the way it was done in the main international source for the area, which is the 1997 CoE Committee of Ministers Recommendation. It is pointed out in that recommendation that any breach of freedom of expression must comply with Article 10. The European Convention on Human Rights and to "need to be interpreted closely and regulated by law and formulated by clear and precise terms" and, of course, by a decades-long practice of the European Court of Human Rights. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, none of these criteria the minister responsible for human rights had in mind when he said on October 8, 2008, in a statement to one of our daily papers, that MPs of the ruling majority should withdraw their mandates from other MPs, by abstract or political criteria, as if the Assembly were a judicial body, not a legislative body. So that statement was essentially an advocate for abolishing freedom of expression, and it is completely contrary to this spirit of law that we are considering today and with a number of international conventions. However, ladies and gentlemen, these are already double standards that Brussels is propagating and are practically implementing right in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16305	Thank you, Mr. Mirovic. Member of the 5th amendment was submitted by Ambassador Ognjen Mihajlovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Here you go, Mr. Michaelovich, you have your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16306	Right now, let's get one thing straight, we Serbian radicals aren't stupid, and we're not illiterate, and we didn't think at any point that this law is legalizing homosexuals, let me use that precious expression of yours, marriages. The least of us can be expected to spread xenophobia. We don't instruct our members, members of the SRS to hate someone because they belong to another party. It is reserved for a yellow company, which enters the municipality of Zemun only under one company – kill, exterminate, throw out. It's not our thing. It is known when Dr Vojislav Seselj was elected president of the municipality of Zemun that nine radicals entered the municipality and that no one was fired. So was the time when Gordana Pop-Lazic chaired SO Zemun, while she was mayor and for this short time when it was Slavko Jerkovic. So, as far as these homosexual marriages are concerned, we know they're only in phase three. The first phase was deconvening or better said discrediting the SPC. We saw this through the protest of Episcopal Pahomia, which ended by defending himself, and then raising the hook and the disruptors, all possible NGOs that jumped into the Serbian judiciary. No one was okay with them. He was supposed to be shot, minors right after he got out of the courtroom. That kind of thing happened in America. There some other churches and some of their dignitaries were tried after two or three years, were released, but then the introduction of such laws followed shortly after that and the legalization of such marriages. What would one of my friends say? Adama and Steve. Everything that's done against Serbia is done in phases, it's not done immediately and it's chased. Gradually, that's what happened to yesterday. Ten years ago, the first one was Rambouje, Racak, and then the bombing. That's the way it is now. First attack and destroy Serbian morality through its most important pillar of SPC, then manipulate the Assembly... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16307	Thank you. Member of the 5th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Mr. Krassic, you have your word, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16308	Since the DS is in power in Serbia you can be gay, you can freely use drugs, but smoking is prohibited. It most endangers Serbia's health, and no one should surprise what with a full pair, open-minded DS wants Euro-Atlantic integration and since it wants such integration, of course, this is a condition. But what should we do if most citizens of the Republic of Serbia do not want to enter Euro-Atlantic integration under such conditions? Of course, I've turned the discussion over to this amendment, because I have no one to talk to, for the simple reason that this Article 5. The draft law is contrary to Article 21(3). The RS Constitution and I must tell you that in Article 2. The bill, in Section 1, which states what discrimination and discriminatory behavior are, you've thrown out all other forms, you've classified only form by some personal quality. That's where you showed your intention. You're not interested in disabled people, women, Roma, other people. You're only interested in that marginal group that's rattling, yelling, yelling, acting by the system -- child-faced killers. This is your situation – the cabbage looks, the meat draws. Who can trust DS? When are they real? They vote from Bodrum, Thessaloniki, arrests, introduce temporary measures. They're not interested in KIM, Vojvodina. What do they care? The worse, the better. To tear up Serbia. Of course I won't vote for this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16309	Mrs. Kolundjia has her word, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16310	President-in-Office, although this is about amendments to Article 5, which, from the reasoning we hear here, cannot be concluded, I just want to say that it's on Article No. 5. Over 50 amendments are submitted and the essence of these amendments, or, I say, the proposal only consists of any word proposed in this law being changed by some synonym. So instead of being "direct and indirect" in the law, it is proposed to be "direct and indirect", since it is probably more directly Serbia than directly. The word ‘jointing’ is changed in the word ‘organization’, etc. As far as we are concerned, since we have followed closely and carefully analysed each of these amendments, of course all the answers that make it impossible or unnecessary to accept these amendments are because the amendments essentially do not apply to the matter regulated by this article. So, amendments are a means of showing with as many amendments that actually vary synonyms as possible, although it cannot be prevented to pass this law, it is trying, firstly, to show that this law is allegedly not good, secondly, to show that this law is supposed to deal with something that is not actually dealt with and, on the other hand, conceals what this law actually deals with, and this law deals essentially with the prohibition of any form of discrimination of every sensitive minority group in this society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16311	Thank you, Mrs. Kolundjia. Mr. Vladan Batic answered his word. Here you go. You've got three minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16312	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, MPs... (President: Mr. Krassic, please don't throw away, you're interrupting the speaker. Here you go, Mr. Batic. ) Different forms of discrimination are different and this is the problem of a society that rests on a system of impaired values. I'm going to mention one example that has something to do with me in some way. One family living in the suburbs of the Kings, refugees from Kosovo... If you could just calm down, please, it doesn't make any sense, really. (President: Please do not disturb Mr Batic.) I'd really like to hear it. I have no intention of getting used to it. If you want to hear it, you will, if you won't, I can't help you. So, one family from around the Kings, refugees from Kosovo and Metohija, four children, mixed marriage, Albanian women, Serbian husband, forbidden love, father does not work, mother does not work, four children, one child rickety, near Zice. I was moved by this difficult life story, I personally wanted to help this family, not to mention names, giving up one piece of the parliamentary salary as some kind of help, without mentioning any political party, politics and anything, as someone who's the father of three children. Now it's a sin, now it's become a ballast for that family. She went to a school where this kid had rickets because they have to look for books for next year -- let your sponsor pay you for it, let your donor pay you for it. This is an example of discrimination. I don't know what kind of society we are, and as far as we're concerned, some people are both placed on a pillar of shame. Why should we live in a marriage and give birth to children of an Albanian and a Serb? It's a sin and it's discrimination. Another question, another kind of discrimination. Is discrimination when four and a half thousand people from Tara, from Wet Gore, from the Kreman can't afford their property, with six and a half thousand acres of land, because it's entrusted to the availability of the Nature Park, and you all know that there's actually one man behind it. Is that a restriction on their rights? Is it discrimination against these people and the inability to realize what private property should represent? I don't get into it because that same man is a fan and a lover of some war criminals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16313	Thank you. Parliamentarian Goran Mihajlovic submitted to the 5th amendment. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Veselinović. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Mladenovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Mr. Mladenovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16314	Ladies and gentlemen People's MPs, Serbian citizens, this law favours unnatural phenomena, equidistributes sexual definitions and may be the cause of increased phenomena such as necrophilia, homosexualism, sodomy, pedophilia, gerontophilia, etc. Gerontophilia is a sex act with old and powerless people. Sodomy is a sexual perversion consisting of a sexual relationship between man and animal. This way of generalizing happiness is seen in mentally retarded persons or those with different disorders. The necrophilia, which is increasingly widespread with us, is a delight in observing corpses or their parts, up to sexual relations with them. It is considered to be traumatic, classified as a severe clinical form of perversion and disorder. The necrophilia must not always have sexual motives as the main one, but the taking of total control, the sense of power over death and mortality. There are three types of necrophilia: necrophilia murder - implies murder and use of dead bodies for sexual enjoyment; primary necrophilia - already the dead body is used for sexual satisfaction and necrophilia fantasies - fantasy and contact with the dead body without sexual acts. Necrophilia usually occurs as part of other most severe mental illnesses, such as schizophrenia, and there is no cure for it. Unfortunately, in Serbia necrophilia is not treated as a criminal offence, but rather as a serious disease, so that necrophiles are not subject to legal sanctions. Pedophile, it's spread all over the world, and it's unfortunately been with us for the past few years. I appeal to the ruling majority MPs not to vote in favour of such a law that can cause all these forms to be increased and phenomena that can't do any good to the citizens of Serbia. The SRS, like most Serbian citizens, is against these phenomena and we strongly condemn them and we want these forms to be reduced.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16315	Thank you. Member of the 5th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Here you go, Mr. Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16316	Ladies and gentlemen, there is absolutely no difference between the proposal of this member of the law and my amendment. The only difference is that I consider my proposal to be more linguistically clear and therefore I suggest that Mr. Secretary accept it. I will take this opportunity to remind you of a case of organised national discrimination of citizens of Vojislav Seselj. You all know that Serbian citizen Vojislav Seselj has been incarcerated in The Hague for six years, on the basis of a false indictment ordered against him by the regime in Belgrade, specifically by the Serbian government. I remind you of a statement by Carla del Ponte - Zoran Djindjic said: "Take Seselj to The Hague and do not return him to Serbia". Serbia thus became the first state in the new history of civilization to order an international indictment against its citizen. I remind you that before that, Serbia has become the first state in the recent history of civilization to hand over its legally elected president to an international court. I also remind you that in six years, the state of Serbia has not provided absolutely any legal and financial assistance to its citizen Vojislav Seselj. On the contrary, she forced several citizens, her citizens, to go to The Hague and falsely testify against her citizen Vojislav Seselj. Finally, I remind you that Serbia has absolutely not responded adequately to the fact that Vojislav Seselj spent five years in the tribunal of The Hague tribunal falsely accused him of not starting his trial. The state of Serbia is also not responding to the fact that Vojislav Seselj has recently been prosecuted for contempt of the court, although it is clear to each other that a procedure against most Serbian citizens could be initiated on the same principle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16317	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Mr. Alexic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16318	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I have submitted an amendment to Article 5, a symbolic amendment. I suggested that it be changed and said: "The types of discrimination are direct and indirect discrimination, violation of the principle of equal rights and obligations, calling for responsibility, association for discrimination, etc... "I would first like to point out that this amendment is symbolic and to highlight the advantage of Article 21. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which is much more complete. I'll quote it when I go out on the next amendment, so I don't waste my time right now. I would also like to look back at the appearance of representatives of the ruling coalition, who have been coming out here and calling for examples in the West regarding the adoption of this law. Look at the following facts. In 2009, a law that promotes xenophobia was passed in America. They passed a law making it difficult to employ immigrants in enterprises with majority state property. This was brought by Barak Obama and the Democratic Party of the United States. So that's that model in the west. The second decision they made to extend the repressive measures in the Guantanamo military camp, where prisoners are being questioned in one extremely terrifying way by applying repressive measures. On top of that, the man said -- that America was the state that invented the car, although the Germans did it in 1885, in 1886. So you don't have the right role model in the West, regarding the adoption of this act. In the West, currently through anti-terrorist legislation, human rights are being abolished, and you have seen that even xenophobia is being promoted, specifically in the United States, and I have stated by what law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16319	The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Here you go, Mr. Sluzzard.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16320	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, my colleagues and I, have all submitted an amendment to Article 5, and it mainly looks like this: "Dicrimination appears in the form of indirect and direct discrimination, violation of the constitutional principle of equal rights and obligations, calling for responsibility, organisation for discrimination against other citizens and legal persons, humiliating treatment and harassment." We've all made our comments and we want to fix this law, but there's nothing to it. The SRS draws attention to citizens that the Serbian government in a perverse way wants to destroy all Serbian traditional values. We do not allow anyone to insult our dignity, our pride, or to wipe out these very important liquids for Serbia. All these values were nurtured and maintained and preserved by the Serbian people for eight centuries. We are against any discrimination. Our leader Dr. Vojislav Seselj fought and today he fights all forms of discrimination. That's what the whole world saw. He's doing better for human rights and freedoms. This bill is counter-constitutional. Moral states in the world do not allow the adoption of laws that would characterize this country as a gay state. Serbian citizens, regardless of national and religious membership, do not accept or approve of the proposed law. The media is simply competing in Serbia who will give more and to whom it matters, whether gay or lesbian lobbys, so that this law is only an initial step towards their ultimate goal. I order new breaths in Serbia not to destroy the most important assets of our morals, customs and written rights for the sake of a white Schengen visa. Many things Serbia's citizens need to be provided, as before...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16321	Thank you. It's been two minutes. Ambassador Ljubomir Kragovic submitted to the 5th amendment. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. He has the word Mr. Kragovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16322	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, on the proposal for a law on the prohibition of discrimination, on Article 5, I have proposed an amendment amending Article 5, which should read: "Dicrimination is manifested in social life in the form of indirect and direct discrimination, violations of the constitutional principle of equal rights, freedom and obligations, calls for responsibility, mergers to discriminate against other legal entities, hate speech and dissent and humiliating treatment. "This is just a legal formulation that should stand in this bill, which will improve the bill. However, what I still wanted to point out is discrimination against Serbs in KIM, especially towards students at KIM. I asked Mr. Minister of Education here a month ago – will there be a course at the Faculty of Philosophy in Ranilugu? He promised me, from this pay phone, that class would be. There's no class in Ranilug until today's class. Mr. Minister, who else shall we address if the Minister of Education has not fulfilled his promise? Which is now the higher instance that will help these students still have their classes, so they can bring the end of the study, they are students of the third and fourth years of the Faculty of Philosophy. On the other hand, should I remind you that it is the fourth week that the inhabitants of many villages in KIM are without electricity. A lot's been done. I've just received more calls from them that even today they don't have electricity. There are mainly endangered villages such as Šilovo in Kosovo Pomoravlje, Gornja Kusca, then the villages of Plemetina, Priluže, Grace, Babin Most in central Kosovo, as well as the village of Suvi Lukavac, in front of Osojana in the municipality of the East. These are villages that are very endangered.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16323	Thank you. (The speaker continues with the microphone off: these are the villages that are very threatened and which are not helped. In many ways, he tried to help them in Kim. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Srboljub Zivanovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Article 6 and on Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Here you go, Mr. Alexic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16324	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to the title above article 6 and Article 6. I suggested that they be deleted. What's this about? Here, the proposal for a law states the following: Forms of direct discrimination. Direct discrimination exists if a person or group of persons is placed in an unfavourable position, or could be placed in a more unfavourable position, in the same or similar situation, by any act, action or failure. This "or could be put in an unfavourable position" isn't sufficiently explained. Secondly, you here exclusively insist on personal property. See now how much more complete the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is, how much nicer that sounds. Article 21 The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia: All are equal before the Constitution and the law. Everyone has the right to equal legal protection, without discrimination. Any discrimination, directly or indirectly, is prohibited, on any basis, and particularly based on race, gender, nationality, social origin, birth, religion, political or other belief, property, culture, language, age, mental or physical disability. So, incomparably more complete and better provision of the Constitution. You could at least copy it if you didn't know what to do. Look beyond what you're doing, what your practice is. Serbia's Maltene government issued a warrant to the judiciary, that branch of government that is being established by professional criteria and operates by professional criteria, according to Monteskje -- a neutral political authority, a warrant to end labour disputes against employers. This is how you discriminate against workers. You take from the poor to give to the rich. It's that story from Alan Ford about Superhik, he takes the poor to give to the rich. That's exactly what you're doing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16325	Thank you. Member of the 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Damjanovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Veselinović. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (Dragan Todorovic, from the place: So that's what you're using? ) The leaves were glued, I was warned by Mrs. Komic, she followed it up and noticed. Here you go, Mr. Avramovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16326	I have submitted an amendment to article 6 which says - direct discrimination. What is direct discrimination? Here in the context of the Government is the fact that the amendment is rejected because it does not change the essence of the provisions contained; the existing provision is not contrary to the rules of nomoch. So nomotechnics have nothing to do with direct discrimination, because it is undefined. Direct discrimination is the best example of robbing citizens of the city of Belgrade. We delivered you nice home bills, you don't know what month you're due, what year you're due, you have a calculated interest, and you don't know what the interest is. You know you've been paying regularly, you know you're doing your dues, you know that your garbage isn't worn properly, you know that water doesn't have the pressure it should have, you know that the sewers are clogged as it's clogged up, but Infostan's here, the chimney services and everything else he needs. Not to talk about other robberies, cable, double pay TV subscription, etc. The robbery of Belgrade for the non-payment of the account of the 1990s, for the non-payment of interest in the 1990s that did not exist, accounts that did not exist, debts that were not recorded to citizens five to six years ago have now arrived to pay. Do we live in the capital of a country? If this is the attitude towards the citizens of the capital of one country, what relationship do we expect you from a yellow company in some other regions of this country, where no costs are paid, where public services do not exist, etc.? So, the robbery you're conducting to fill the budget, to maintain administration and appliances like this is inevitable, so Serbian citizens choose next time what you're going to round up.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16327	The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Milan Veselinović. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Jadranko Vukovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Here you go, Mr. Vukovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16328	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 6, with a proposal to delete in Article 6. Explanation. The amendment proposes to amend that member of the draft law in order to strengthen the constitutional provision laid down in Article 21. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia on the ban on discrimination, which reads: Before the Constitution and the law, everyone is equal. Everyone has the right to equal legal protection without discrimination. Any discrimination, directly or indirectly, is prohibited, on any basis, and particularly based on race, gender, nationality, social origin, birth, religion, political or other belief, property, culture, language, age and physical disability. They are not considered discrimination against specific measures that the Republic of Serbia can introduce to achieve full equality between a person or a group of persons who are essentially in an unequal position with other citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16329	Thank you. The 6th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Buh. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Vuković. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Mr. Vukovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16330	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, based on article 147. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I propose an amendment to Article 6 and I propose that the amendment be replaced after the word "unfavourable position" by a point, and the rest of the text is deleted. Explanation. The amendment proposes to amend that member of the bill in order to strengthen the constitutional provision laid down in Article 21, which reads: All are equal before the Constitution and the law. Obviously, here you should delete that extension "or you could be put in a more unfavourable position". I remind Minister Chiplic that yesterday I asked him to explain to me what his first statement said when he said in his first sentence that we were supposed to be afraid of something that was not there and what was hypothetical, and this is where they are put in the bill of law exactly those words "or they could be placed in an unfavourable position". Here, now I've shown an example, two hours ago I said, discrimination at work in the Palilu municipality. Again, for the fifth time, although the SRS has all the papers neatly, the SRS group has been discriminated against. It's simple that the Palilu municipality will not make a decision for the fifth time compared to our request to return our mandates. The robbery is on every piece of Palilu, in all segments. The SRS cannot defend its representatives in the Palillula Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16331	Thank you. Member of the 6th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Acimovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Here you go, Mr. Acimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16332	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have tabled an amendment to the draft law prohibiting discrimination in front of the SRS parliamentary group. In Article 6, the word "there is" is replaced by the word "exist." Article 21 The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia on the ban on discrimination states: "It is not considered to be discrimination against the specific measures that the Republic of Serbia can introduce to achieve full equality between a person or a group of persons who are essentially in an unequal position with other citizens." By this law, you have discriminated against seven traditional religious communities, because by not listening to them, you have legalized all religious sects and other dishonest organizations, so we ask you, government gentlemen, what future do we expect? Will the priority of this society be a group of mustache people, in heels and sexy laundry? How will people who lead their children take their hands and explain to them why two women or two men are kissing each other, and can they express any kind of revolt if these laws are legalized homosexuals, religious sects and all the other immoral behaviors represented by your own trustee for the protection of equality?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16333	The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Vukicevic. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is Mrs. Vukicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16334	Dear citizens, we've been talking about discrimination all day. One kind of discrimination is what has been done in recent days, which is that Dragan Gilas, mayor of the city, wants to pick up money from the people, commit a certain kind of robbery, calling on people to pay some backlogs of Infostan, electricity or whatever. The SRS invites you not to answer that, that you should not pay the bills, because it goes directly into their register, since it is obvious that all their budgets have been emptied. Do you only remember that during Mr. Milosevic's time he called Zivkovic, the mayor of the time, that all accounts were put into barrels, that no one would respond and that no one would pay those bills? So why would we now, why would you, anyway, have nothing to live on, still separate from your small personal incomes, from paying some of God's backlogs? Don't pay the bills. The court didn't make a decision, so you can't even answer to the court. I have one minute left to say something about Article 6, which is about protecting the faces that are, say, different sexual orientation. So tomorrow, persons who are sexually different from our window can manifest their potential sexual tendencies in any way, the law does not protect us from being able to react in that sense.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16335	The 6th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Elena Christmas-Talian. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Articles 7 and 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Duvnjak. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is Mr. Duvnjak.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16336	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, based on article 147. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I submit an amendment to the draft law on the prohibition of discrimination. The title above Article 7 and Article 7 shall be deleted. I don't want to talk much about this amendment, I'm going to talk about discrimination against the citizens of Krushevec. The town of Kruševac, with 164,000 inhabitants and once the strongest industrial city, with 60,000 employees, and after October 5, there are fewer than 20,000 employees, that it does not have its own customs duties, is discrimination, but has a representativeship and that is at Metalpromet, bought by Amza Kaplani, arrested during Sablje, and is paid daily by up to 180,000 dinars, and that is discrimination. We have both a place and conditions for customs. It's the Parish. It's the Krushevac Chemical Industry. There's a parking lot, there's a building, and there's a tracking facility, and the state is still silent today. With customs at the Parish, the Parish would be saved from bankruptcy, and the Kruševac would be given the most modern customs. 150 people would be hired. The parish would start producing blue stone, without which many industrial branches couldn't, as well as agriculture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16337	The 7th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Dimitrijevic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Mrs Dimitrijevic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16338	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, Article 7. The draft law on the prohibition of discrimination refers to indirect discrimination and reads: "Indirect discrimination exists if a person or group of persons is placed in a more unfavourable position by act, action or failure, which is apparently based on the principle of equality and prohibition of discrimination, unless that is justified by legitimate objectives, and the means to achieve that objective are appropriate and necessary". With the amendment I have made, I have proposed to delete the title above Article 7 — Indirect Discrimination. The government has decided not to accept this amendment. We have one example of discriminatory behaviour compared to a group of persons, which are participants of the 1999 war in Kosovo and Metohija, members of the former Third Army area. Yesterday it was 10 years since the start of NATO aggression. Ex-Jablanic County fighters and today have failed to exercise their right to the amount of the war log that has been paid to other fighters. After many failed negotiations with government and strike representatives, and at the head office of the Jablanic district, and here in Belgrade, the fighters were forced to press charges against the court to make the daily payments. What this country hasn't thought about is what will happen if former third-country members sue the Republic of Serbia for discriminatory treatment against them, how much will it cost Serbia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16339	Thank you. Member of the 7th amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Mr. Ilichu, you have your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16340	An amendment that I have submitted to Article 7. The draft law on the prohibition of discrimination reads: "Article 7 after the word 'legal objective' puts the point and the rest of the text is deleted." In this article 7, I can see the answer I asked the minister two days ago, but the minister did not respond. I asked if there was a legitimate difference and an unequal attitude to the faces or groups that were being talked about here. It is in this Article 7 that the nature of discrimination for which the implementation of the proposal requires legal certainty, all of which justifies the legitimate objectives, as it is literally written in paragraph 1 of this Article. So when this state decides to kidnap factories, fire workers, cut pensioners, that now Gilas robs a million citizens of Belgrade and thus discriminates against them, it can always defend a legitimate goal. Workers, tobacco producers, milk and raspberries, miners and workers in the textile industry, etc. that they are seeking their rights, but they are justifiably discriminated over the alleged interest of the state of Serbia, and that is the way to Europe because of this law, which, unfortunately, we will adopt. They will seek their rights in court, and when they do, it will be for which for a decade, some will not even be in life, the property will then be torn apart, robbed and divided. The competent authorities, with respect for the right apparently based on the principle of equality and prohibition of discrimination, will allow time for discriminatory reckoning with the disbursed. Let's just look at how many years workers from individual businesses in Serbia have been struggling to recover their property.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16341	The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Žutic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Natasa Jovanovic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Dragan Zivkov. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Here you go, Mr. Zivkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16342	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 7 which reads - the word "personal" is deleted. Given that we have received the same explanation for this amendment, as well as the previous, that it does not change the essence, that, contrary to the essence of the law that we now need to analyse, what the government thought was the essence of the law, given that the law is in the widest part, we can now consider how interesting the essence of the law is by certain members of that law. Given that one prominent cartoonist, who presented the EU countries with his cartoons, has presented our neighbouring countries, such as Romania and Bulgaria, which belong to the EU, as a septic pit, i.e. The toilet, we from Serbia can only imagine, if we enter the EU, what kind of cartoonist we would be, and the EU is thinking about. The essence of this law is to systematically destroy the family, which can be seen from these members of the law, since the media in Serbia are also involved in the complete systematic destruction of the family, one being that is very important to the cell of a society, so we can remind ourselves, you are probably now looking at "The Moment of Truth", "The Big Brother", "48 Hours of Wedding", "Dancing to Dreams", these are all media campaigns of destroying family and state, one being, a cell of society, which is very important, and this is family.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16343	Thank you. It's been two minutes. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Mr. Jojic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16344	Mr. Minister, it would be very useful and it would be a priority to pass new laws, which are of interest to our citizens. From the moment the SRS MPs started, first of all asked questions about the agrarian and the mafia in the agrarian, I got, I can tell you, and in my office I still had over 100 letters left. These are life problems that interest citizens, which means that citizens are interested in those good laws, above all agriculture law, taking land from profiteers and thieves. First of all, what's necessary? It is necessary in the first order to pass a special new law on state agricultural land, to break contracts with mobsters, and to settle the land and to allow peasants to use as much as they can – 10, 20, 30, 40 or 50 hectares. Only in the Kovin municipality do you have thousands of acres taken by mobsters, but they don't pay the state or the yellow bank. I have to repeat, I have hundreds of letters upstairs, where in the last month or two citizens are reporting. This is of interest to our citizens. Pay attention to this, not to the gay law. Don't, it's backwards. Don't do that. You're embarrassing yourself.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16345	Thank you. It's been two minutes. Member of the 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Branimir Djokic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljubomir Kragovic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Mr. Kragovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16346	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on the proposal for a law on the prohibition of discrimination, I have submitted an amendment in front of the SRS so that Article 7 of the proposed law "actual, action or failure, which is apparently based on the principle of equality and prohibition of discrimination" is deleted, so that Article 7 of the proposed law should read as follows: "Indirect discrimination exists if a person or group of persons is placed in a more unfavourable position, unless it is justified by legitimate objectives, and the means to achieve that objective are appropriate and necessary". This indirect discrimination was applied, through the draft budget law, to Serbs, to the most vulnerable population in Serbia, which is Serbs with KIM and farmers or our peasants, by reducing the KIM budgets by one third, just as you reduced agricultural funds by one third and you thought you finished the job, to those who needed the most and the most. However, this "yellow company", this power that is not able to implement the budget and fill the budget register, is now moving, normally, not only on those who, poor people, have stayed on KIM and our peasant to cut, but are beginning to seek funds from just those who are on asphalt, i.e. in Belgrade and the racketeering of two million citizens in Belgrade begins, and it is likely that the example will follow in other municipalities, because the empty register must be filled and they must cabinet, which are three or four times higher compared to the previous year, through budget funds to be charged...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16347	Thank you. It's been two minutes. Member of the 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Srboljub Zivanovic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radica Jocic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Mrs. Jocic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16348	I have submitted an amendment to Article 7. The draft law prohibiting discrimination requiring the prohibition of discrimination in that Member of the words - the prohibitions of discrimination - to be deleted. If we already have guaranteed equality with the Constitution, which is also referred to in Article 7 of this bill, then why re-emphasise the prohibition of discrimination? Why do you need to keep talking about her? What kind of discrimination can be justified by legitimate objectives, and what means can be appropriate and necessary to achieve such goals? Do you, Mr. Minister, use this word in Article 7. In fact, the bill's only trying to denigrate your own unpreparedness and unpreparedness of the entire state apparatus, to deal with widespread different forms of discrimination in Serbia. Ladies and gentlemen, every day we all testify that there are more and more unemployed in Serbia, more and more of those who can't make bread from first to first, let alone pay bills from ten years ago, who can't educate their children, who can't be treated. On the front pages of the daily newspaper, we read about old people who died of hunger, of winter, of loneliness. Every day we have an example of rape, multiple monster murders and harassment. What is this of the people of Serbia, gentlemen, being transformed into by the DS? What do they take care of? If they do not leave the power of the yellow soon enough, they can only lead Serbia to ruin.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16349	The title above Articles 8 and 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Mr. Krassic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16350	Mr. Minister, on this bill, I guarantee you a monograph in which all these members will be analyzed, after which you will probably have to avoid scientific gatherings and all the assemblies of lawyers and those dealing with the protection of human rights. You can see the power of abuse of authority, of position when someone is in power. Now I'm not getting into it because someone's pressing them from abroad. The question is whether they're being squeezed by someone or if they're flocking to this one themselves. However, in words – equality, equality – there is also a ban on discrimination. In Article 8, they say - violation of the principle of equality, rights and obligations, something that hardly anyone can understand what the writer was going to say. I must draw your attention that Article 21(3) has prescribed a general prohibition of discrimination, and you have narrowed down the prohibition of discrimination in Article 2(1) and reduced it on one basis only, personal properties, no matter what personal features look like. Article 21 speaks – on any basis. There goes what Mrs. Judith said and those others who talked about some roof law. One more thing, very important, given that in this and previous members, something is said which forms of discrimination, since discrimination is punishable, other regulations are regulated actions from the point of view of the elements of the criminal act, if it is a criminal offence, if it is a offence or anything else. It's simply something to wave at, to avoid the story of topics – the economic situation, the social situation...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16351	Time, thank you. The title above Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Krstin. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Mr. Christin, do you want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16352	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, article 8 in the title says - violation of the principle of equal rights and obligations. On the basis of the regulation that you have adopted because of the extra administration by municipalities and municipal administrations, workers will be out of work from five to thirty years of employment. These workers from five to 30 years of employment, when they lose their jobs, will receive 550,000 dinars from the state. Are you familiar, Mr. Minister, with that regulation? What are you going to do with those workers who are 31 years old and are out of a job? What are you going to do with those workers at the age of 32 at the age of 33, and they're not going into that $550,000 quota because they're going to be out of a job and they're not going to be able to support their family anymore. These are infringements of the principles of equal rights and obligations. I didn't mention any 34-year-olds, 35, 36, 37, 38, 39-year-olds. Where are these violations of the principles of equal rights and obligations? Especially in this Article 8, if I only read the last sentence – and if there is no proportion between the measures taken and the objective achieved by these measures. It's that sentence that disproves all of this you wanted with this law, and you'll suffer from people who are excess in the administration by the municipalities. Mr. Minister and Madam Chairman, this law should not pass and will not pass us, members of the SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16353	The title above Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Ljubenovic. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Here you go, Mr. Ljubenovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16354	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 8. It's a bill of law. The amendment reads: In the title above article 8, the word "equal" is deleted. The title above Article 8 defines an infringement of the principle of equal rights and obligations, and Article 8 reads: 'A violation of the principle of equal rights and obligations exists if, because of its or their personal characteristics, the rights and freedoms are unwarranted or impose obligations which do not in the same or similar situation be denied or imposed on another person or group of persons, if the objective or consequences of the measures taken are unwarranted, and if there is no proportion between the measures taken and the objective achieved by these measures. ''In the previous week, the most severe violation of the principle of equal rights and obligations occurred in Leskovec, as the DS took away the rights of citizens to exercise power in their city those for whom the largest number of Leskovcans voted. The first thing they did when they came to power, like unauthorized persons, because the mayor was appointed by law. They started with blackmailing the head of the city administrations from the SRS -- either resigning in those places, or getting fired, and the law clearly says that the competition chiefs are elected for a time period of five years. However, there is a violation of their guaranteed labour rights here, all due to the belonging of one political option. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16355	Thank you. The title above Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Maric. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does Mrs. Maric want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16356	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to the draft law on the prohibition of discrimination, which, in the title above Article 8 of the word "law and" is deleted. I think it's more correct to talk about the violation of the principle of equal rights, equal obligations and abuse of rights, because any right can be misused. A discussion on discrimination is under way all day, and discrimination is being held against Serbian citizens all the time. Now you're forcing us to pay some phantom bills for Infostan, dating back to 1999. About 800,000 households in Belgrade received accounts, and this is a kind of robbery because the court has made no decision. Since the budget was emptied, they figured out how to get the money, which is the easiest thing to do by hitting on the backs of honest and decent citizens, citizens who paid the most regularly. Where do people pay for it, when at this time democratic transitions leave many out of work, and hence, no means to live? Zoran Zivkovic, when he was an opposition, urged the citizens of Nis not to pay the bills, so we will do the same, urging you not to pay bills that are not valid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16357	The title above Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is Mr. Dusan Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16358	Ladies and gentlemen, the title above the article 8 of this law is - Infringing the principle of equal rights and obligations. I find the words "and obligation" too high. Otherwise, I would like to draw attention to the fact that half an hour ago we witnessed a difficult form of discrimination. One of the MPs, I will not mention his name, by profession a lawyer, apparently speaking of Ratko Mladic, used the term - a war criminal. It's not just a serious form of discrimination, it's a serious crime. Here is the practice that Hague indictees, although we all know that a false political indictment has been brought against most of them, are called war criminals, especially when it comes to former Republika Srpska President and Chief of Staff General Ratko Mladic. I warn that there is no judicial verdict against Ratko Mladic, which he has been declared a war criminal. Also, there is no judicial verdict that Radovan Karadzic is a war criminal. I ask the question - if the UN tribunal condemns them, and will surely condemn them, is there anyone normal who follows the work of the UN tribunal, who holds any rights, who will really believe in their guilt on the basis of the UN tribunal's verdict? For comparisons to prove discrimination, I remind you that there are judicial judgments by Serbian courts against Tony Blair, Jacques Shirak, Javier Solana, Wesley Clarke, Bill Clinton and similar criminals, a judicial verdict that they have declared war criminals, and no one here calls them war criminals.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16359	The 8th amendment was submitted by MP Vlad Milojkovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Mr. Avramovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16360	Mrs Djukić-Dejanović, please use your right to apply your right under Rule 27 of the Rules of Procedure, relating to Article 60. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which says: Everyone has the right to respect the dignity of his person on the job, safe and healthy working conditions, necessary protection at work, limited working hours, daily and Sunday holidays, etc. I remind you that you have the right, in accordance with Article 98(3) of the National Assembly, to interrupt the work of the National Assembly in other cases. We're here, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, this morning at 10.00 hours, now it's 19.25 in fact, which means we're nine and a half hours in the O.R. You're planning on working till 9:00. It's 11 hours' work. I think it's a kind of pure discrimination against people who need to explain their amendments in quality. I ask you to exercise your right to take a break and tomorrow morning, a bright, fresh, restful quality of consideration, because the minister has already fallen asleep, the MPs are tired of going out for a pay phone all the time. Simply, the sight of concentration has fallen and we cannot explain all the amendments in quality. So please use this right. I didn't say this was an injury, it was your possibility, and you, however you want, I'm tired. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16361	Mr. Avramovicu, no injuries to the Rules of Procedure. In time, you were informed that we would extend to the end of the agenda, and it refers to the period when we were at 1800 hours at a certain point in the agenda. The right to Sunday and daily rest guarantees the Constitution. However, we have committed ourselves to laws and to work. Member of the 8th amendment was submitted by MP Vlad Milojkovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Sladjan Mijaljevic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does Mr. Mijaljević want a word? Here you go. Otherwise, we could go a little more dynamically to the speaker, if you'd like to finish early.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16362	Dear President, if necessary and prescribed by the Rules of Procedure to run at 100 metres or shorter, it's okay, no problem, but we're just going out for a pay phone right now. So I don't want to sprint from fifth row to pay phone. I've spent 29 seconds on this. I have submitted an amendment to Article 8, where the word "obligation" is requested to be deleted, and I have received an answer, amendments change the essence and content of the provision. The existing provision is not contrary to the rules of nomotechnics. We already had that in the previous article. Like I said, it would be funny if I said commendable is what a member wrote under the rules of nomotechnics. I guess every member should be written according to the rules of nomoch. As for a particular example, this member, if properly applied to some identified and defined groups and persons, can be positively used. However, if it is maliciously and tendedly applied, we will get exactly what the MPs of the opposition and fear and speak from a pay phone through countless examples all these days. If we have two groups that demonstrate, one group demonstrates because of some political beliefs, and the other group demonstrates because of their own personal means, or sexually different, as they like to call themselves, that so-called "LGB" (el jibi) population, they will seek to be treated and to apply the same rights to them as those who have a political demonstration, or to some political problem. If a citizen who insults their public demonstration and their personal property approaches and tells them something, the police will have to move those citizens away... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16363	Two minutes. Thank you. Does anyone else want a word? You've used the time you have available as an applicant for the amendment. Thank you. The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic. People's MPs earn that MP Sladjan Mijaljevic has been denied. With a little more attention and concentration if we follow the session, you will see that, at the time of two minutes and 20 seconds, the MP has been informed that it has been two minutes and has taken advantage of the time. So before you start making any remarks, I'd like you to pay a little more attention to the work. Here you go. National MP Aleksandar Martinovic has a word. The MPs continue to earn, and I remind you of Article 104, which prohibits the conduct and treatment of one another in the session of the National Assembly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16364	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I promised Mr. Secretary that I would proceed with the story of discrimination against the disabled. By this law, Mr. Minister, you say you want to protect the disabled. Now I want to introduce you to a special category of citizens who are a little disabled, and few are not. It is Belgrade Mayor Milan Krkobibic's current deputy. He went into disability retirement in his time because he was allegedly incompetent to work. In 2008, he became deputy mayor of Belgrade. What's the problem? Under the Law on Local Self-Government, the mayor and deputy mayor are on permanent duty in the city, meaning they are both mayor and deputy mayor. Now, Mr. Minister, here the question is -- how is it possible that someone with disabilities is working in a company, and when they're supposed to be deputy mayor, then they're not disabled, then they're able to be in a working relationship? So, you see, Mr. Minister, what a hypocrisis it is. When it's fair to do as thousands of citizens in Serbia do, then I'm incompetent to work, and when I'm to be deputy mayor of Belgrade, that the cost of Belgrade citizens, by sending them tickets to Infostan, I eat creams and drink whiskey, then I'm also capable of being the deputy mayor. Will this law end this kind of discrimination? He won't. What can real disabilities do that this country has not provided for any protection? They can appeal to your trustee for protection against discrimination, so whoever discriminates against them will be warned, so if he does not act by warning, the warning will be made public. What's the kind of protection? Not at all. Those who steal, steal and continue, and Serbian citizens will find it harder and harder.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16365	Two minutes, thank you. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marko Milenkovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Marko Milenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16366	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment that in Article 8, which defines the principle of equal rights and obligations, the words "groups of faces" are deleted because they are superfluous, given that everything is already defined enough through the denial of the rights and freedoms of one person, which is why we do not need the plural in the text of the law because it is necessarily understood. With this in mind, imagine the situation in Kursumlia, where the owner of a private company with 12 workers, Radivoje Deljanin, deals with the production of agricultural machinery for export, and by expanding production requires consent from the Power Distribution to connect the newly built hall to the network. Although he regularly pays taxes, salaries, self-indulgence, successfully operates, with the will of some ossion director, Zarko Mandic, Deljanin receives a negative response, explaining that there is not enough electricity. The job abroad is, of course, lost, competent and municipal authorities are not responding, although discrimination is done only because Deljanin does not have a real friend, who would mediate with this unfortunate Mandic, who in the past and the citizens of Zitoradje wanted to leave without water. On the other hand, the fact that factories do not work in Kursumlia and what the state would have to do almost anything to ensure the development of small businesses, which could be the main factor in the development of the fallen economy. In search of the reasons for the adoption of this law, all of us should understand the desire of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to stabilise and join the EU, even if it is unilateral, but we cannot take their laws, translate them literally or at times inadequately and put them in the text of the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16367	Thank you. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16368	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in the 1980s around Belgrade, there was one way of deluding and robbing curious citizens. The apartment of two hoodlums by the solitary, looking up, getting something, curious citizens gathering, and the whole crew around their pockets. This law aims to show us that we are looking up, and Gilas and various Gilas will soon drag the hands of citizens of Belgrade to their elbows, on the one hand Gilas, on the other hand Dinkic in Belgrade, both in Kragujevac and Novi Sad, because the difference between these mayors is that not all of them are called Gilas. Just today, right now, the incredible robbery of Serbian citizens, the budget is empty, 40 billion missing in the vault every day, needs to be filled in and found people way. They promised when they came that we'd all live better. He says if you give us power, we'll all live better and all live better, believe me. To go back, since three times I've tried and failed to say what I have to say about Article 18, you've freed the priests from responsibility, in the first law there was no responsibility, you put it here, when two gays came to him that he didn't have to marry them and that he didn't have to answer for it. What about the mother? What it says in the Constitution, that marriage is a union between a man and a woman, and here it was for a priest also in the Constitution. What about the parents? The mother will lose her job when two homosexuals come and ask him to marry them. Mr. Minister, correct this part of the law, protecting workers in local self-government. By the way, I have submitted an amendment to Article 8 which reads...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16369	Thank you, two minutes. Member of the 8th amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Ognjen Mihajlovic. Please follow the course of the session. I asked very clearly if anyone wanted a word, no one answered, and I said no. National MP Dragana Todorovic, without a pass. Given the time, during the session while I was reading the amendment to Article 8, it is clear that I have done so as well as for any other amendment. The fact that you do not want to participate actively in the session is the problem that is yours, not the course of the session. With the breach of the Rules of Procedure, we return to the read amendment, which no one has reported wanting a word and I give a word to MP Dejan Mirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16370	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the amendment has been submitted to Article 8 and again, as in other amendments to the SRS, insists on a precise and clear definition. In the amendment to Article 5, we have indicated how important it is for the hate speech to be accurately and clearly defined. We also pointed out how important it is to use relevant international sources in this regard, such as the Recommendation of the Council of Europe's Committee of Ministers on hate speech of 1977 and also to show how important it is to guarantee and freedom of expression, as a fundamental human right that protects the very conventions that are mentioned in the interpretation of the bill. For example, Article 19. The 1966 Civil and Political Rights Pact states that no one can be disturbed because of their opinion. In the second position of the same member, it is prescribed that everyone has the right to freedom of expression. Ladies and gentlemen, these are fundamental human rights and are mildly said to be unserious when the minister, who is currently in charge of human rights, proposes in a statement to the News of 8 October 2008 that MPs of the ruling majority, not the court, should decide what language of hate is and, at the same time, not to mention basic human rights, the right to freedom of expression. So these are very serious things or areas for which there are numerous international sources, and that is why not even the penetrating dogma or ideology can't justify or hide the fact that it's inconclusive and political rather than legal interpretations. Therefore, this law should be withdrawn from the procedure because it is clear that it will not be interpreted properly and turned to important topics such as the economic crisis or the blind fulfillment of the IMF's conditions, which, among other things, lead to this scandal with Infostan's accounts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16371	Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Ognjen Mihajlovic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word is from Ambassador Ognjen Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16372	Respected Serbian citizens, Serb brothers and Serbian sisters, you have seen that the SRS has put all its strengths, all its powers to resist this law, which, behold, introduces Serbian gays into the community of European gays. So, first there was unification. We did our best, but the law of the majority will ultimately bring its Tyran laws. Serbia's Serb and Serb sisters, in the fight for the defence of traditional Serbian values, we explained that everything that is done in Serbia is done in several phases. We explained that the first phase was to discredit the SPC, that the second phase of passing this law was to the third stage of these marriages. Of course, here, high-minded colleagues on my left have defended it in a variety of ways. We even heard that these marriages are normal and that there are no problems. Of course, it's classic demagogy. They are used only by the facts which correspond to them, and what is not in their favour will not be spoken. What's this about? Even those Americans, who first allowed such marriages in their California, now think completely differently about the matter. In fact, concrete scientific evidence has been carried out that in these marriages children, who were of course adopted, cannot function. These children become apathetic, depressed, in one word totally social and unusable in modern society. They're cruel facts, but it's only one part of those facts. Of course, I can't take these others out, 'cause I'm about to run out of two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16373	The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Goran Mihajlovic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Mladenovic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Article 9 and on Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Pai Momchilov. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has been given by the People's Messenger of Pai Boys. People's MP, do you want a word or not? Yes, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16374	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16375	People's MPs, I warn you that the discard is forbidden by Article 104. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. People's MP Pai Momchilov had very obvious difficulties in reaching the pay phone and I have to ask him if he remains willing to get a word he's entitled to. I'm warning you to stop throwing away, because that's the base of article 106 to give notice. Here you go, MP. I'm sorry to keep you waiting, but your fellow MPs are simply breaking the Rules of Procedure and I have to make sure that this doesn't happen when you speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16376	Madam Chairman, with insight into the O.R., you could clearly see my raised hand. Therefore, I have a desire to speak. I don't know how you're getting the idea that I suddenly don't want to. I had to apologize to a colleague I saw. You understand that I'm a gentleman of my age who has to practice good manners and apologize to my colleague. That's the whole story, right? Let's go back to the amendment after all. We've proposed to delete Article 9. The title and contents of Article 9 are considered absolutely unnecessary here. See what we get in response – the amendment, it says, is contrary to the purpose of the law and restricts the prohibition of discrimination. How does something that doesn't exist mean we delete the content and there's nothing – how can it be zero in contrast or anything? Here we get such pointless answers. It's a continuation of senselessness and logic, a really nightmare situation where we find ourselves when we read your answers. But, well, she started a reckless and senseless robbery in Belgrade. Look at what's going on with Infostan, look at the parking lots and parking service how intensively it works. At the clinic, people can't park because there's not enough room. The state didn't provide that. Patients have to come, get their cars up, and the state collects it, and of course we're going to have pay taxes. Citizens of Serbia, someone here has said what is the essence of our amendments and what is the essence of the law. The essence of this law is hypocrisy, because gentlemen, globalisation, and you are supporters, Europeans, globalisation, has brought division to those rich and poor.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16377	Two minutes, thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's Messenger Mirko Munjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16378	Ladies and gentlemen, I believe the title is above article 9. The draft law is too high, and Article 9 represents a logical continuation of the principle of infringement of the principle of equal rights and obligations, which is regulated by Article 8. A bill of this law. However, one of the basic problems with almost all the laws passed in this assembly, in the Serbian Parliament, is that these laws are either not applied or applied selectively. It will be fate for sure and for this law when it is passed. Serbian citizens should know something else. Don't worry about these from the ruling majority non-application or selective application of these laws. The citizens of Serbia, know – they are concerned that they will further tax you, so they will tax you in order to fill the budget that is almost empty, so that they do not experience bankruptcy of the state. Citizens know, for them, this taxation represents one of a kind of art – the art of having the goose shell, with as little moaning as possible, and with as much feathers as possible. They also want to do it here in Belgrade, this charge for Infostan, charges from about 10 years ago. But know from the power of the Lord: less and less will be feathers, and more and more will be sorrows. So know that poverty is the greatest human temptation. You should be careful when you're forcing someone too tight on the belt, they might get nervous. So don't play with the charge for Infostan.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16379	National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 9th amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has a People's MP, Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16380	Ladies and gentlemen of the People, I have submitted an amendment to Article 9, which reads: “Dicrimination exists if a person or a group of persons is being treated unfairly worse than is being treated or being treated. “ I suggested that these words “or be treated ” be deleted. Is there discrimination in Serbia? There is. Who are the discriminatory faces? All, both young and older, both women and men, both disabled and healthy, and practically no non-discriminatory group in Serbia. Who is discriminating in Serbia, who is actually speeding up and doing the most funny thing? It's DS with your helpers. What did I say about not accepting this amendment? The amendment is contrary to the purpose of the law. I am proud that my amendment is contrary to the purpose of the law, because where would the MPs of the SRS support one of these freakish laws? We don't mind either of us and my colleagues care what sexual orientations individuals are in the government, and what sexual orientation Mr. Gilas is, but what we stand for, what we fight against, is robbing Serbian citizens. That's what Dragan Gilas is best trying to do now, but he'll say in a few days, we'll write you off the interest. It seems to me like what Boris Tadic was doing when the gas was running out. Then perhaps later, he will say - we will not take anything from you, and then he will try to falsely introduce himself to the citizens of Belgrade as he takes care of them.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16381	The 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Milan M. Nikolic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has an MP Milan M. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16382	Dear People's MPs, honourable citizens, I have submitted an amendment to Article 9 of the proposed law. Article 9 reads this: “Discrimination exists if the person or group of persons are being treated unfairly worse than they are being treated or treated with other persons, exclusively or mainly because of their request, or because they intend to seek protection from discrimination, etc.”. My amendment consists of erasing “or a group of faces. ” This amendment aims to improve and strengthen the constitutional provision, in particular Article 21, which defines that all are equal and have the same rights before the Constitution. The government has not accepted this amendment with an explanation that it is contrary to the purpose of the law. From this discussion so far and from these amendments, as far as it's been submitted, we see that this law really has no purpose and my amendment can't be incomplete. It's discrimination against the amendment. That the government sincerely wants to fight discrimination, should have prescribed crimes, anticipated adequate criminal sanctions and dealt with a competent court in criminal proceedings as a criminal offence. Criminal and legal protection is the best solution to protect citizens from discrimination. What you predicted will not reduce discrimination in Serbia but will increase it. There will be more examples of discrimination when you pass a law like this than before. This member is of general character, and as soon as a phenomenon is general, it is broad for many abuses. By ethnic criteria, unlike natural laws...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16383	It's been two minutes. Thank you. Parliamentarian Dusanka Plecevic submitted to the 9th amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has a letter from Dušanka Plečević.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16384	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my amendment refers to Article 9, in which I ask that the words "or intend to offer" be deleted. In this member of the proposed law, there are language irregularities, such as the word "bad" as a company comes bad. The language correct combination is bad - worse - the worst. So instead of the word “bad ” the word“ worse. ” The following text reads "because they offer or intend to offer evidence" and should delete the words "or intend to offer", because they are unnecessary. The proposed member is abounding with assumed actions, such as - or would be acted, intending to seek, intend to offer and similar, until the incriminating actions under this law are listed. It's all explained by the expression "doing." The person or group of persons seeking or intending to seek protection from discrimination will, in any case, offer evidence of a discriminatory procedure, so that the whole of Article 9 of the proposed law should read: “Discrimination exists if the person or group of persons is being treated unfairly worse than is being treated or treated solely or mainly because they have sought or intended to seek protection from discrimination or because they have offered evidence of a discriminatory procedure. “ These changes result in legal and linguistic clarity and accuracy of the content of Article 9 of the proposed law.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16385	Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word is from MP Vitomir Plužarević.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16386	I haven't even started, and you've already turned my time on. Please don't steal.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16387	People's MP, you've got your word, you've come to the speakers, and the moment the MP stops for a pay phone, that's when the time begins.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16388	I have to get ready. I can't work without my glasses.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16389	People's MP, organize your exposure activities until the moment you get your word and approach the speaker.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16390	The ban on calling for responsibility in Article 9, so we ask that the words "have been offered or" are deleted. In order not to read this whole article now, we all want to make sure that all the members don't accept this law the way you wanted it to be. With a white Schengen visa, without money, we can't go anywhere in the white world from the circle of the "Belgrade Two". If you don't have the money, that Europe won't even talk to our citizens. I suppose you know that the Dutch embassy first seeks the economic bonus of our people to travel to the Netherlands, and if they do not, there is no way in which you are promised a European country. In Article 15. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia guarantees equality between women and men. This provision of the Constitution is above any other regulations and laws. And the provision of Article 21. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia has sufficiently guaranteed a ban on discrimination. Neither does this provision of the Constitution provide for sexual orientation. We know that the ruling group will accept this law. Nothing is sacred to them, they are only interested in such messages and the money that comes from them known funds, and these funds have plotted for themselves to destroy everything that is Serbian and to make the Serbian state a freak in the Balkan space. Here we are the Serbian radicals, who will fight, along with the honorable and congratulated people and citizens of Serbia, to preserve the state and all its eternal values.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16391	National MP Ljubisa Petkovic submitted to the 9th amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word is from Ambassador Ljubisa Petkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16392	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, citizens of Serbia, on behalf of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 9. A bill on banning discrimination, and I suggested that the words "exclusive or mostly" be deleted be deleted. I haven't read a lot of laws, maybe twenty back since I left The Hague, but so far in practice I've never found that in any law I could read exclusively or mostly can or can't, left or right, acceptable or unacceptable. I am familiar with the fact that, most of the time, in any law, it represents exactly what it refers to, in order to make it more clear to the citizens. For example, there is discrimination in Article 9 where, in this case, Mr Vojislav Seselj's face, the president of the SRS in The Hague tribunal, discrimination or a group of persons, is unfairly mistreated or treated. Here we have one of the strongest political parties in Serbia, which has been discriminated against by being most frequently warned, which has the most penalties. You can check it out in all the files. I would also like to stress that there is some discrimination against other citizens of Serbia. I would set an example of discrimination being carried out over 973 citizens of the Republic of Serbia, who remained under conditions without citizenship from the SRJ period, who, knowingly or unconsciously, made perhaps one failure and error... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16393	Two minutes is the time available. I ask you and others to complete your presentation within two minutes. The rules apply equally to everyone. The 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Paunović-Milosavljevic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16394	On behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 9. The draft law prohibiting discrimination, which is the word 'unjustified', is deleted. I think it's illogical to explain this amendment because almost no amendments the SRS has submitted have been adopted by the government or this one. Therefore, I think it is more comprehensive for me to address the citizens of Serbia and say that the SRS is calling for the CAP "Infostan" to be responsible on behalf of Serbian citizens. The AKP "Infostane" has a monopoly and precisely because it has a monopoly thinks it can do whatever it wants, thinks it can humiliate Serbian citizens, thinks it can insult Serbian citizens' dignity, thinks it can break laws, thinks it can discriminate on Serbian citizens. The AKP "Infostane" violated the bond law by prescribing one member that only a year could keep receipts. It has trampled human rights by the fact that people have to wait in line and get receipts, an account without cover. You don't know why they got them. They probably got it because the city budget is down and because it has to be filled in somehow. Therefore, the SRS believes that the JKP "Infostane"... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16395	It's been two minutes. The National MP Gordana Pop-Lazic submitted to the title above Articles 10th and 10th of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? National MP Tomislav Nikolic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16396	Mrs. Komic, you have injured the Rules of Procedure, Article 103(1) – the speaker can only talk about the issue on the agenda, and on the basis of Article 106(4), you should have given notice to the previous speaker. Now I'm going to explain it to you. Namely, here we are the hostages of the usurpation of the right of one parliamentary group, which has been used by the Rules of Procedure, which is entirely against, to prevent the pointless amendments to the first members of the law from the MPs of other opposition groups from speaking about the law, and in doing so, by misusing the amendments, talking about the whole of the law or even about the current political and any other kind of events. You act as if nothing were going on, as if the rest of us were not discriminated against, in order that at least within those ten hours each parliamentary group would get as much time as it belongs to her. Please take care of that. We are all aware of that in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Those who shout "hold the thief" treat the other MPs very unfairly. In the first eight members, the debate went on about amendments to a law that has only been the cause of different conflicts in the Republic of Serbia on whether or not such a law can enter the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. You seem to be, you know, but you're not doing anything, you think this day will pass. On Monday, we have 42 laws, this parliamentary group will do the same thing on those laws, because they don't think about what's important, but what's pointless. So it is pointless to talk about the title above one member and to submit an amendment for that 20 MPs. It's not pointless if he lets you go to the chairman, but if he doesn't let you respect the Rules of Procedure, then it's pointless. I will make a proposal to amend the Rules of Procedure to eliminate this... During this speech the MPs of the SRS were banging on the benches. [[Disabled microphone.]] )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16397	It's been two minutes. I listen very carefully to the MPs as they explain in their time of two minutes that they have the right to this Rules of Procedure and the difficulty with the warning of the application of Article 103 is that I have to listen very carefully, to see whether in any sentence a MP or a national MP will bring his presentation in connection with his own amendment. In most cases, and you can look at the stenogram, this respect for Article 103 is either at the level of one sentence or at the level of two sentences, and the rest of the time the MPs use for their presentation as they consider. The first MP or MP who absolutely does not bring their exposure to the amendment they have submitted will be warned, and warned about the violation of Article 103. That's the responsibility of the chairman, and you can see in a stenogram that I'm telling the truth. National MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, as an applicant for the amendment. You have no right to a replica. You don't have time as an authorised representative. You used your time. (Alexander Martinovic, from the post: The parliamentary group is mentioned in an extremely negative context. ) Please don't discuss the right to replication. The right to replica, according to Article 101, is the assessment of the chairman, and the MP did not speak offensively, nor did he express his reputation, nor did he have the right to reply. Please, you're the applicant for the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16398	I hope, Mrs. Comić, that the shortest way I could get to the pay phone, although I've waited a long time for you to give me your word, so now you should give yourself a warning. You know what, when someone remembers after three days that they haven't submitted enough amendments for this speaker to be able to state his position on some law, that's the problem with that parliamentary group. We are really trying to show in the most transparent way what the position of the SRS is on all those vulnerable groups treated by this law. Often, as a society, we are forced to be xenophobic, and xenophobia, on the contrary, spreads within the Brussels family. So, about my amendment, I'm going to give you an example from today's Policy, which took over a piece of the article in Lagos list, which says, "In the nightmare of the global crisis, Europe and the developed world are closing down as forts. In the wave of mass layoffs, the gastarbitters are the first to strike. Xenophobia and recessions of racism are on the rise there. Foreigners arriving for temporary work in third-world countries are mostly taking home labor jobs for large-scale money. Nigeria (it is) needs to think about the motives of the attacks of foreign gastarbitters." So our society, as you can see, is neither a source nor a prone to xenophobia, but is precisely the one in that EU that you are so seeking, giving birth and developing. For what? Because of globalisation. It's something that's obviously unnatural, unsustainable, just as dangerous as racism, like fascism and all the other ideology, there's Nazism, if you will. Thank you for not giving me the right to the replica of Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16399	The title above Article 10 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Popovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has an MP, Zoran Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16400	In front of the SRS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 10. The draft law prohibiting discrimination, by proposing that the title above article 10 be deleted. The title above article 10 reads "Communication for Discrimination", while Article 10 reads: "The association is prohibited for the purposes of discrimination, i.e. the operation of organisations or groups aimed at violating the Constitution, the rules of international law and the laws of guaranteed freedoms and rights, or the cause of national, religious and other hatred, discord or impatience". It is clear from Article 10, that the legal norm in this article, which prescribes that association is prohibited for the purposes of discrimination, is certainly contrary to the title above the same article, which I repeat, reads: "The association for the purposes of discrimination". Obviously, in a specific case, the legislator was contradictory by formulating a title that contradicts the legal norm itself that follows that title, so it is too high. As for Article 10 itself, which says that association is forbidden for the purposes of discrimination, i.e. the activities of organisations or groups that are aimed at causing hatred, discord or impatience, I am very interested in how this law will apply in the future to the electoral action and work of your coalition "For European Serbia" or to the shortened ZES. Since I do not have time to remind you, with this in mind, of all your activities, only to remind you that actress Mira Banjac, at one of your conventions, has divided Serbian citizens into second-row citizens, and that was only one of the evidence that Boris Tadic has joined the new DOS to spread hatred, discord and impatience towards voters who reflect the power of the SRS. Therefore, I propose that this amendment be adopted in the voting day, because it is clear that inadmissible association is for the purposes of discrimination.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16401	The 10th Amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 10 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Radovanovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 10th Amendment was submitted by MP Dobrislav Prelic. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with Article 76(2). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Dobrislav Prelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16402	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this law on the ban on discrimination aims only at one thing: to bring down the morale and this little national dignity left over to the Serbian people, to reportedly bring us closer to the white Schengen list, and in fact to humiliate the citizens of Serbia even more. This law offends every man's normal mind, and discrimination against Serbian citizens is at every turn. Now I'm going to tell you that 38,000 citizens of the Odjac municipality have been discriminated against. Bojan Pajtic and Dusan Bajatovic said there are no dinar investments for Odzac municipality while Serbian radicals are in power. If they bring down the SRS with power in Odzac, the Odzaci municipality will receive 5m euros in three months. A lie to a lie. That's how they've been campaigning for the election. What have Serbian radicals done for the past five years? A people who have been discriminated against, above all by the national minority, in the populated town of Deronje, where Roma live, have been given the way, water and electricity for the past five years. In the Deronies, too. Every kid goes to school, every kid gets his lunch. So Serbian accounts take care of national minorities, and you in every way want to discriminate against the citizens of Odjak municipality. A lie to a lie in a campaign. Keep it up, Mr. Bojan Pajtić and Dushana Bayatovic. You lie, and we'll win the next election.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16403	The 10th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Marina Ragush. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with Article 21(3). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk emissary Marina Ragush.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16404	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, representatives of the ministry, what the SRS has been trying all this time is that with examples of the images of the transition society in Serbia, a society that is truly filled with examples of discrimination on various grounds. We tried to point out the need for this bill to be as good, more concrete and clear as possible, in terms of even handling towards a better and fairer Serbian society. We suspect that, unfortunately, it will not be feasible anytime soon. We are looking at the situation, we think that the increasingly difficult economic and social situation will hit us in these days ahead of us, that an increasing number of people will run out of work, that an increasing number of people will be discriminated against in applying for labour rights, that Serbia will drown in a crisis that will suffer severe torment, if judged by this political will. You chose the way. The EU and the way to Europe have no alternative, it is your legitimate right, we respect all those who voted for it. We've got another time. Serbia has no alternative for us. What we understand through all these bill proposals is how to arrange and train the Serbian society for the difficult and dreary times that await it, and in this Serbia, everyone finds their place, regardless of any quality that distinguishes it, and especially political conviction. In this regard, the SRS submitted this number of amendments, wanting only to imply one fact: there is a member of Serbia's 21st highest legislative act, which is the Constitution, which is very clear and decadently saying... (President: Two minutes. I'm sorry, just to finish my thought, if you'll let me...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16405	Two minutes is available to each of the MPs and I ask you to, in accordance with that provision, prepare your presentation when you seek and receive a word to explain the amendment you have submitted. The People's MP, Ms. Radeta, wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16406	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs. Comic, it's article 195. The Rules of Procedure, which states in paragraph 2, that the Government determines the members of the Government who represent it on certain issues which are on the agenda of the National Assembly, and the position of the 4th member says that the representatives of the Government participate in the work of the National Assembly in accordance with the powers laid down by the law. So, Mr. Ciplic, as an authorised representative of the government of the Republic of Serbia, is obliged to sit here and communicate with the MPs, i.e. to participate in the work in accordance with this Rules of Procedure. A good part of the day was sitting, but apparently a man got tired, and we can understand that, because you've already had observations about how many hours we've been working uninterrupted, but we have no understanding, even though you from the ruling coalition, start from you who chair, to the MPs of the ruling majority who are no more than 10 in the O.R., go away, rest, go back, the minister obviously didn't provide a replacement, so he had to go to rest. Here comes Mr. Minister. Minister, you've been resting for over half an hour and you really don't. If you can't handle it, then tell us nicely, and we can't stop this work, because in your absence we can't do, first, that doesn't allow us the Rules of Procedure, and secondly, it's pointless to explain the amendments if you're not present, because as long as you're here, there's a chance that you'll realize how good the amendments are to the SRS, so at least some...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16407	Two minutes, thank you. National MPs, you have misused the right to receive words by quoting a member about the presence of a government representative. A representative of the government is present, he is in the O.R. all the time, while you speak the State Secretary was present, i.e. the government's representative was also invited. I warn you that the abuse of a member of the 100th term of office of article 100 will be punished by a warning. (The Faith of Radet, from the place: This is an abuse? The People's Messenger, the Prophet of Radeta, casts out: this is an abuse. Yes, this is an abuse, because you, like all other MPs, know that the minister is present in the building and that he is taking occasional breaks, and that the second one is invited by the government's representative in the O.R. and that there can be no violation of Article 195 in any case. Secondly, this injury has already been said once during the day and it is not allowed, especially since we know that the minister is monitoring this debate and will follow and participate until its end. I warn the People's Parliament not to throw it out of the bench, that's the second basis for giving notice on the basis of Article 106. The Belief of Radet, from the place: Come on. I give you my first warning. Please respect the rules of the Rules of Procedure. We all have a duty to respect them. Member of the 10th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with Article 21(3). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? The word has an MP Milan Avramović.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16408	Amendment to Article 10. This article reads: Association is prohibited for the purposes of discrimination, i.e. the activities of organisations or groups aimed at breaching the constitution, rules of international law and the law of guaranteed freedoms and rights, or at causing national, racial, religious and other hatred, discord or impatience. I'm asking you, Mr. Minister, how you're going to say and how you're going to act, how you imagined the functioning of this law, let's say, of a paramilitary formation on KIM. How you evaluate the Rosa paramilitary formation, which works on KIM, which, by the constitution and by this law, can't work because it can't exist. Who's going to regulate that jurisdiction? That he wouldn't have a protector, would he? Is it not the Constitutional Court? Who's going to define this and solve this problem? There comes a paramilitary formation, performs an ethnic cleansing and then comes the Protector and gives the paramilitary form a warning. So these are things that are illogical. I have one proposal, since discrimination is visible at every turn in this room, and this is the Serbian Parliament having a Solidarity Fund that pours money from fines that only the president or deputy president, Gordana Comic, says.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16409	People's MP, I warn you not to speak falsely at the speaker of the National Assembly. Please take care of the truthfulness of the public word you speak. Go on.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16410	Okay. So, the Solidarity Fund exists in the republic's parliament, but it doesn't exist in the government. It is discrimination against the Republic's parliament against the government. Let's let the government open a fund of solidarity, let the minister give up one salary each of the affairs, and let every untrue, more precisely told lie, take off one diary, and with that fund we'll be able to fill a total minus in the budget and complete holes to patch up what you've made. And for these parties that say - proportional to our strength, when you go to the elections and measure your strength, then demonstrate.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16411	The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word is from Ambassador Mirko Munjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16412	Ladies and gentlemen, Article 11, whose erasure is required by this amendment, treats the famous hate speech. Article 11 reads: It is forbidden to express ideas, information and opinions that encourage discrimination, hatred or violence against a person or a group of persons because of their properties, etc. The title above this article, which reads - hate speech, like Article 11, suffers from a syndrome that can be called Hague syndrome. In order for the impression to be complete, you should only assume that the hate speech was made within the framework of a joint criminal enterprise and then it would really remind you of some elements of the Hague indictment and indeed remind you of that pathetic and ridiculous Hague prosecution, which Professor Seselj, in his brilliant defense, managed to break up, to spread, as he himself said. Such a parallel would be really ideal if you had predicted this. Mr. Minister, if you didn't know, Dr. Vojislav Seselj at The Hague tribunal broke this indictment and in this section concerning hate speech. You obviously didn't see that. I suggest you take a look at it and then you wipe out this member yourself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16413	The 11th Amendment was submitted by MP Konstantin Arsenović. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has been made by MP Konstantin Arsenović.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16414	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the President-in-Office, Mr Minister, on behalf of the PUPS parliamentary group, I have tabled five amendments to improve the law on discrimination. I'd explain all five of them all of a sudden, and I wouldn't be reporting on those amendments anymore. What was the objective of these amendments? To provide for a ban on the abuse of the law by a person protected by a law prohibiting discrimination. Secondly, access to public institutions and public areas of persons with special personal properties is made possible in order to exercise their personal rights in accordance with applicable laws, as well as with all other citizens. Third, to enroll in educational institutions to the rights of individuals, not groups of persons. In addition, there have been appropriate sanctions, I would not particularly explain them because they have no purpose when the Government has not accepted these amendments. I think it was a good idea for these amendments to be accepted, which in some ways would alleviate the problems related to this law. What I'm going to say next, it's my personal business. I personally get the impression that the law on discrimination has been proposed to exclude persons with special sexual orientation. It is indisputable that persons with special sexual orientation should not be discriminated against and that they can otherwise express their properties, and there is nothing controversial about it. However, I cannot accept a law that allows for their public manifestation of these personal qualities, which violates the moral and traditional values of our people. This before we eliminate the occurrences of discrimination under the already applicable legal regulations, which we must admit are numerous and daily present. I'm going to say one example of discrimination, and I have to say that, although I've talked about it several times, it's 65 pensioners, who have been deprived of pension rights for almost two years, and thus the rights to life. The defence minister doesn't want to solve it, even though it's people who don't have the basic means of living. This is an obvious example of discrimination. I will not vote for this law personally. In the capacity of the deputy parliamentary group, I would also like to point to the violation of the Rules of Procedure, it is the members of 103th and 104th, which have been denied by certain MPs of the opposition and related to Mr Milan Krkobibic. I'm not contesting the opposition's right to criticise the position, it's her right. Therefore, at no time will I dispute it, nor will I want to be a lawyer to Milan Krkobic, but I want to tell the truth once again, because it has been repeated several times that he has gone into disability pension, which is not true, it is a man who has lost his job, because he was the director of the Credit Bank, who has been disbanded, and according to the Labour Act that he went into disability pension, he could not have started a working relationship. I'm asking you not to use that attitude because it's incorrect.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16415	Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Jankovic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a national emissary, Aleksandra Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16416	I have submitted an amendment to delete the word apartheid in Article 13, point 4, after the words – slavery, human trafficking. It is quite understandable that, with respect to constitutional provisions, anti-discrimination laws are also adopted for the sake of respect for international standards and obligations undertaken by ratification of international contracts, particularly those relating to human rights guarantees and freedoms in meeting the standards for Stabilisation and Association of the EU. It is also quite justified to include apartheid in difficult forms of discrimination. What remains unclear is the occurrence of apartheid with the proposed law on the ban on discrimination of the Republic of Serbia, in which there are no cases of apartheid and even hypothetical opportunities to reach it. It seems that in order to comply with our legislation for international standards, there has been a mechanical copying of the term apartheid, so it is necessary to remove this, for well-intentioned written errors, and for the other logical nonsensions. In fact, the word apartheid literally means separation and comes from the language of africans, from the word "apard", which means unique, special. Since 1948 it has been a socio-political doctrine used in the Republic of South Africa. Political, social, economic and spatial detachment of races was meant to achieve separate race development in all areas. The apartheid policy got involved in almost the whole world, as it led to the oppression of all the so-called. the non-white South Africans and strengthened the management of the white minority. Apartheid also became an official, universal term in the 1976 UN document. The International Convention on the Prevention and Penalty of the Crime of Apartheid. In apartheid (President: Two minutes. I'm just gonna finish... Expansionism and racist oppression and efforts...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16417	Thank you, People's MPs. The 13th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Markovic-Palma, Petar Petrovic and Jasmina Milosevic. The time of the parliamentary group? National MP Miroslav Markicevic, the time available to the NS parliamentary group is eight minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16418	Dear Vice-President, Mr. Minister, dear fellow Members of Parliament, respected citizens of Serbia, since it is obvious that Mr. Ministers today did not want to respect the MPs of the opposition, you probably have a reason why you have been acting like this all day, it is your right not to go out for a pay phone and give any interpretations on any amendment. I'm giving you the opportunity, honestly, to come out here and explain one thing that I think, unfortunately, tens and hundreds of thousands of people in Serbia, after today's social incomes, so to speak, have, down by 20%, given an explanation: are they discriminated and are their rights violated? Namely, what it's about. Yesterday, we all, the government, ministers, opposition parties, each in our own way and in individual places, marked 10 years since the tragedy that hit our country. As a consequence of our country's criminal bombing on March 24, 1999, unfortunately, there are many disabled people in our country, many families who gave their loved ones, mothers gave their sons, were we all hypocritical yesterday when we were, I think, in a dignified way, all together marked and promised to families, both ancestors and descendants, that we would not forget that day? What does it mean to receive today's checks from wartime military disableds? What's the message to the families who gave their loved ones? What is the message to the civilian victims of this bombing, if they received these receipts today that they have legal rights reduced by 20%? Honestly, I'm asking you to go out for a pay phone and explain why it was done today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16419	The 13th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Markovic Palma, Petar Petrovic and Jasmina Milosevic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 13th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Miroslav Petkovic, Milica Radovic and Donka Banovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a message from Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16420	Dear Presidency, fellow Members of Parliament, I regret to say that we are already ending our debate in detail, which is limited to 10 hours by the new discriminatory rules of procedure. This is just the second amendment for which the DSS gets time to explain. Of course, I wouldn't accuse the opposition parties. Each opposition MP also has an obligation to submit amendments to the legislative proposals. For this situation, I accuse the ruling coalition and the MPs who adopted such a rule of law. Otherwise, the amendment I submitted refers to Article 13, and this article bears the title "Severe forms of discrimination". Please, the title itself is pointless because discrimination is discrimination, I guess. Or, if you've already introduced the term "hard forms of discrimination," where are the easier forms of discrimination? The amendment proposes erasing the word "natural identity". Namely, this article lists these difficult forms of discrimination, including gender identity. I remind you, in Article 21 of that first bill, there was also a term for birth identity. In talks or negotiations, which are likely to be conducted for a few days, the term "birth identity" disappeared from article 21, but the term remained in Article 13. In doing so, the legislator didn't do well to explain to us what a birth identity is, I guess that's what I've laityfully realized, but I'm a woman, but I'm telling you that I'm a man and you mustn't be too hard to discriminate about.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16421	Two minutes, thank you. Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has an MP Dejan Mirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16422	Ladies and gentlemen, the amendment has been submitted to Article 13. It's a bill of law. The amendment refers to what is obvious, which is that there was an obvious copying of the law, because, as is known, apartheid is an concept that attaches to South Africa and Africa as a continent. If it was already intended to give an example of discrimination, then it is an appropriate example, above all, of kim. Or if it has already insisted on an international case, the most similar situation is apartheid, which is present today in Palestine. As far as genocide is concerned, it is not mentioned in the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms of 1950, more specifically, in Article 14 of this Convention that prohibits discrimination. So, and the introduction of genocide in this law, which essentially regulates human rights, is completely inadequate. In this context, it is clear that the bill has only one purpose, and that is the propaganda of proselytic ideology. On the other hand, the main topics are being avoided transparently: negotiations with the IMF or the secrecy of those negotiations that our government has committed to, that is public information; also, a monopoly of Austrian banks in our country. These, ladies and gentlemen, are the main topics and this is what this amendment points to. So the economy - not Brussels propaganda, the national theme standard - not apartheid, a system that has not existed for 20 years and that existed on another continent.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16423	National MP Aleksandra Jankovic has tabled an amendment proposing that a new Article 13a be added after article 13. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legal, but is not submitted in accordance with Article 147(2). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter by Aleksandra Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16424	I have to talk a little faster now because it's limited time. Article 13a, which reads as follows: "The prohibitions of discrimination contained in this law have to be interpreted in accordance with the nature and purpose of human rights and freedoms protected by these prohibitions, as well as on the basis of the overall human rights and freedoms recognised and protected by the legal system applicable in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Exceptionally, it will not be considered to be discriminatory to place a person in a more unfavourable position, act or act objectively justified by some legitimate objective and where the funds are used to achieve that objective are necessary and appropriate. When determining whether the objective of the previous position is legitimate, particular care will be taken on the nature and purpose of human rights and freedoms protected by the prohibitions of discrimination, as well as on the whole of human rights and freedoms recognised and protected by the legal system in force in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. The prohibitions of discrimination cannot be directed at the annulment of any of the human rights and freedoms recognised and protected by a legal system that is in force in the territory of the Republic of Serbia or to their restriction to a greater extent than that explicitly provided for by law. "In this bill, practically, a member is required to coordinate the system of freedom and rights. The proposed position 2 relating to exceptions which will not be considered discrimination has been taken up by the EU Directive on the application of the principle of equal treatment regardless of racial or ethnic origin, the EU Directive establishing a general framework for equal treatment in terms of employment and occupation, as well as the EU Directive on the application of the principle of equal treatment of men and women in access to goods and services, as well as in the procurement of the same. So the last proposed position 4 is directly taken from the text of the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms and serves to set clear limits in the coordination of freedoms and rights.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16425	Two minutes, thank you. Member of the 15th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Dragan Stevanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16426	Mr. Minister, it's a real pleasure, in the sea of the neucus that comes from the congregation's majority, to hear one conclusion that another representative of the congregation's majority will not vote for this law and that is how it works as a refreshment in this evening when we talk about this law. By the way, I have submitted an amendment to Article 15(1), in which I have predicted that "judgments and" are deleted. You have a senseless explanation in which you say that the existing provision is not contrary to the rules of nomotechnics. For there to be no uncertainty here, Article 15 of the proposed law reads: Everyone has the right to equal access and equal protection of his rights against courts and public authorities. This amendment followed the intensity you have defined in the law. In Article 2 of the same law, you say in point 4) that the term "public authority" means a state body, an entity of an autonomous province, a unit of local self-government, a public enterprise, etc. By doing this, we have suggested that the words "judgments" be deleted in this article. If we didn't stay unsaid here, so that someone from the congregation's majority wouldn't have happened to come out and say, "Here, they're radicals against citizens exercising their rights in court." No, we believe that courts are still the authorities of the state, or state authorities. It is true that you have privatised some in your own political interest or others, but we still hope that there is reason in Serbia and that those who need to exercise their rights before courts in the area of protection against discrimination, or the exercise of their rights, such as those of Belgrade citizens today, will be able to achieve their rights in the future both in the area of protection of rights and freedom, and in the area of protection against discrimination. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16427	The amendment was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16428	In front of the New Serbia parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 16, which I ask for Article 16's position to be deleted. The reasons why I tabled this amendment are precisely because this law, when passed, and undoubtedly will be brought to great regret by a large number of Serbian citizens, changes Serbia's personal map for the future, because the constitution guarantees all rights. Our Constitution is one of the most advanced constitutions in this sense, guaranteeing all rights and contesting any kind of discrimination. Of course, we need to know that there are discriminations that are morally even desirable in society. We talked about them a lot. They are never pronounced by law, but society has a way of working, in which it pulses, and that is what Serbia has demonstrated in these days of public debate on this law. There is one question that we have in the debates about this law – why have so few countries in the world passed a law on the prohibition of discrimination? First of all, because if you pass such a law, you admit to having it. If we already have all the rights guaranteed under the Constitution, all the right to wish, all the positive rights, then by this law we in some way encourage the presence of discrimination. We need to take positive practice from some American cases, and we like to look up to them. When they passed some laws, they encouraged some very negative phenomena in society. I'm afraid we will face such a negative practice very quickly. For this reason, I think that this attitude that is actually talking about positive discrimination - should have simply been deleted because so far society has been very clear on this matter.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16429	On Article 17, the amendment was submitted by MP Konstantin Arsenovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Cedomir Jovanovic, Nenad Milić, Ivan Andrić, Vesna Pesic, Natasa Micic, Slobodan Maras, Nebodsa Prokić, Nebojsa Rangelović, Judita Popović, Kenan Hajdarevic, Zoran Ostojić and Zarko Koraić. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Markovic-Palma, Petar Petrovic and Jasmina Milosevic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 18 of the amendment, the People's MP, Aleksandra Ilic, submitted. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is a folk letter from Alexander Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16430	In front of the New Serbia parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to supplement Article 18 of Position 1 by putting an end to the point of being stuck and adding the words "that are in line with the objectives of churches and religious communities entered in the register of religious communities". With regard to the prohibition of religious discrimination in Article 18(1). The draft law on the prohibition of discrimination is stated – discrimination exists if the principle of expression of faith and belief is acted against, or if the person or group of persons is deprived of the right to acquire, maintain, express or change of faith or belief, as well as the right to make private or publicly available or act in accordance with their beliefs (here instead of a point being placed on and continuing) – which are in accordance with the objectives of churches and religious communities entered in the register of religious communities. The freedom of belief and confession of faith is guaranteed to every citizen of this country and every citizen is protected by the Criminal Code, which prescribes a criminal offence of freedom, confession of religion and the conduct of religious rituals, Article 131. This proposal for a law in Article 18(1) protects the free expression of faith or belief, the right to acquire, maintain, express and change faith or belief, as well as the right to private or public exercise or to act in accordance with their beliefs. But all these rights should be in line with the objectives of churches and religious communities entered in the register of religious communities, because even members of various satanic sects have their faith and religious membership, which is essentially contrary to the principles of public order and morality, which threaten people's lives and health with their fanaticism, cause various disturbances in the sphere of recognised and legalized social norms and morality. The amendment shall not be accepted by reason of the fact that the above supplement is excessive and that it does not comply with Article 43.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16431	Two minutes, thank you. If you want to use the time of the parliamentary group, it's enough to say when I remind you it's two minutes. Member of the 18th amendment was submitted by MP Sladjan Mijaljevic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The People's Messenger Sladjan Mijaljevic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16432	Dear Vice President, dear colleagues, I have submitted an amendment that should be Article 18, Article 3, which reads: "Dicrimination exists if any pressure is put on the face of organisations or individuals and uses the situation of weakness or ignorance to change their faith or belief". The amendment was rejected and said – this member of the law is in line with the relevant provisions of the special law. I'm going to try Article 18 and explain this amendment for a little bit of time, which would say, behind, three, two, one, or possibly a third position. This is a formulation in the formulation brought by FECRIS – the Federation of European Centres for the Study and Monitoring of Sectual Activities, which has been the advisory body of the EU Assembly since 2005. What is in a special law, in the Law on Churches and Religious Communities, is also my work, only there is a much broader formulation. Here in Article 18, paragraph 2, they were able to elect churches and religious communities for their clergy, dignitaries, and partly for their believers. In attitude 1, it can be interpreted in one way or another, but I am precise in attitude 3 – that all those who use violent missionaryism or any misuse of action towards persons with reduced mental capacity and live in a social environment in which they are used to being protected in a certain way. So by rejecting this member, you've got nothing, and by accepting this member, you'd get a lot, you'd be at least one step closer to Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16433	Member of the 18th Amendment was submitted by MP Jorgenka Tabakovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a folk MP named Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16434	The essence of the amendment, submitted on behalf of the Prosperity Club, Serbia to Article 18, is that it is not considered discrimination against the conduct of priests or religious officials who are in line with religious doctrine, beliefs, church goals, and we add to the amendment – and morals that have been accepted. Interpreting that this morale is what defines the Constitution in Article 43(4) exactly the morals of a democratic society that, at least in principle, enables it to differ from evil, ugly from beautiful. If by this law you raise homosexuality to the level of desirable behavior, in the way you promote it, I am not afraid, but I am sure that many immature, unformed young lives will be directed in the direction of useful and desirable behavior, and because of that they could advance at some art academy, at some film academy, or in some literary or other circles. So we bear responsibility as a society, or you bear responsibility as a society when and in a way that the church is punished, in a way that condemns such bad behavior, promotes an unhealthy, disturbed behavior into useful behavior. What I want to conclude is that in the name of freedom very often, and we are witnesses here, there is no respect for anyone, and she is turning into tyranny.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16435	Members of the 18th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Nikola Lazic, Milos Radulovic and Donka Banovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a national MP, Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16436	Along with my colleagues from the DSS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 18's 2nd position to supplement this second position, which begins: "No discrimination is considered to be the conduct of priests, or religious officials, which is in line with religious doctrine, etc." Our addition consists of adding the words "Churchs and religious communities and priests, or religious servants" after the word "processing". The addition of attitudes protects the rights of churches and religious communities, as corporate subjects of religious freedom, not only the individual rights of priests and religious officials, thus harmonising this bill with the Law on Churches and Religious Communities. In an explanation, which has come to us from the government why this amendment is rejected, it says that the amendment is not accepted because this member of the law is in line with the relevant provisions of the special law. I claim that this is not true, but that if you accept the DSS amendment, and also protect the rights of churches and religious communities as subjects of religious freedom, only then will this draft law on the prohibition of discrimination be properly, at least in that part, in accordance with the Law on Churches and Religious Communities.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16437	Member of the 18th Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Jankovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. There's a word from the MP Aleksandra Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16438	Here's one of the two most mentioned members of this non-discrimination law. It's about article 18. In Item 2, on behalf of New Serbia, I add after the words "religious officials" the point and the words "Churches and religious communities and legal persons whose founding are". The Constitution and the Law on Churches and Religious Communities guarantee freedom of conscience, thought and religion, as well as autonomy of churches and religious communities, so it is necessary to provide for an appropriate exception in order to protect the autonomy of churches and religious communities, acquired on the basis of Article. 6, 9, 33, 34, 41 and 43. The law of churches and religious communities. In particular, this law in Article 37 guarantees the autonomy of religious charities. What does that Serbian mean? This means that the government has graciously accepted objections, at least some of the traditional religious communities, which express the confidence of 95% of citizens. However, Article 18 has been amended so that discrimination is no longer considered to be done by priests, or religious officials, who are in harmony with religious doctrine. What's in there is what happens to expressing religious beliefs of believers? As you know, the church is a Eucharist community and a community where there is a very active dialogue between worshipers and believers, the people of God, because prayer is necessary, the prayer of priests certainly, but without religious amen it is not important. What happens to believers who are free to express their religious doctrines? Should they do this as they once did in communist times in some deaf rooms, away from the eyes of the public, or is it possible to appear in a church, outside of it, on the journeys of some pilgrims and where they can practically do what is directed at improving theological and spiritual culture and education?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16439	The 18th amendment was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a folk letter, Zlata Đeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16440	On behalf of the New Serbia parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 18, but let me tell you that the New Serbia parliamentary group is not directly the author of this amendment. This amendment was written by parents who asked for one such amendment to be incorporated into the law, into this article, or all those who had the opportunity or better to say the trouble of facing the impact of sects on their closer or further relatives, on their friends, acquaintances, or associates. We all know how destructive that influence is, how dangerous it is, and how destructive it is in society. We all know that there are nearly 300 sects in these areas, that they're walking, and if the law doesn't limit that we're going to have very serious consequences. After all, we know that apologetics is a science that deals with sects. If someone had the opportunity to read something from apologetics, they must know one thing, and it is very important to tell the citizens of Serbia, at least that's what those parents who have addressed this amendment told me. So sects are the most significant American export product. All the sects formed in America's territory. That's a fact. If anyone wants to check it out, they can check it out in professional valid textbooks. What would matter is, it is to exclude all those persons who are powerless to decide their religion in any way and children to protect themselves by law. It would be one positive discrimination, meaning, from the destructive influence of the sects in our society, to prevent sects from walking through various homes, old faces homes, children's homes without parents or in front of them, to wait for them by promising everything and everything. We have a duty to stand up to this monster and the law in this way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16441	Member of the 18th Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16442	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here's what the ruling coalition resents this amendment, whose purpose is to protect young people and even citizens of Serbia from religious sects. They say this formulation is unconstitutional -- it is not considered to be discriminatory measures taken by public authorities towards organisations whose religious teachings threaten human life and dignity, or which publicly and apparently insult the religious feelings of members of traditional churches and religious communities. I really don't know what's here, Mr. Minister, unconstitutional? This means that, according to your interpretation, it is possible for someone to go out to the streets of Belgrade and publicly preach Satanism, he does not mind anything, because if you tell him anything, you insult the Constitution, that is, every adventurer, every adventurer who thinks that the prophet, that the Messiah, is on the streets of Belgrade, Novi Sad, Kragujevac, Nis, and in an obvious manner of insult, say, the Serbian Orthodox Church. If the public authorities tried to prevent such action, they would, in your opinion, act counter-constitutionally. Mr. Minister, that means that you indirectly admit that this law legalizes religious sects, some of which can be and are very destructive. I hope you know that many young people in Serbia have lost their lives in the past few years just as a victim of these destructive and satanic sects. The point of our amendment was that everyone has the right to their religious beliefs, but if those religious beliefs threaten human lives and dignity, then they're no longer religious beliefs, then it's an attack on the greatest social value, which is human life. That's your opinion, Mr. Minister, unconstitutional.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16443	National MP Jorvanka Tabakovic tabled an amendment proposing that a new article 19a be added after article 18. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legal, but is not submitted in accordance with Article 147(2). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The word has a folk MP named Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16444	The government replied that the amendment did not comply with the purpose of the law, that it did not comply with Article 147, etc., but let the citizens assess it. In the law prohibiting discrimination, we have treated discrimination in the field of labour, in the field of providing public services, education, vocational training, discrimination based on gender, age, religion, race, sexual definition, disability, health. But one group, one category of inhabitants, remained completely invisible to this law, is refugees and displaced persons, especially from Kosovo and Metohija. They're not protected by NGOs, they don't have special groups to fight for their rights. They are hardly seen in refugee camps, or camps, and they are shown in public only on Refugee Day or in pre-election campaigns, when they are to send out a broad-ranging new candidate for one of the public functions. These are people who are discriminated by their names, they are often called Shiptars, because they are from Kosovo and Metohija. They don't have the right to vote like other citizens, they're harder to hire. They have problems solving many life issues. Repeat today's question – is it true that Vice-President Krkobibic issued an order to the Refugee Commissioner to introduce restrictions in health care as well? I ask that this amendment really be adopted and that the procedures be made. During this speech the MPs of the SRS were banging on the benches. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16445	Parliamentarians Cedomir Jovanovic, Nenad Milic, Ivan Andrić, Vesna Pesic, Natasa Micic, Slobodan Maras, Nenad Prokić, Nebojsa Rangelović, Judita Popović, Kenan Hajdarevic, Zoran Ostojić and Zarko Koraić together submitted the amendment. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. National MPs Donka Banovic, Zoran Shami and Nikola Lazic submitted together to the 19th amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a national MP, Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16446	Article 19 bears the title – Discrimination in the field of education and vocational training, and point 1 states: "Every one has the right to pre-school, primary and secondary education, and professional training under equal conditions, in accordance with the law". I must admit that I was surprised when we received this bill that he was a songwriter, or that a group of authors simply forgot to write that everyone has the right to higher education. Please, they listed both preschool and primary, both secondary and even professional training, and they left out high education. So everyone in this country has and must have the right to a higher education. This amendment is similar, not to say identical, to one amendment submitted by a male MP, that amendment has been accepted. So it's about two amendments that are identical. The amendment was accepted, and Donke Banovic of the DSS was not accepted, so I wonder if there is some kind of discrimination there. I'm sorry Mr. Secretary isn't here because this is a suspicion that I may be as a woman being discriminated against as a member and an MP of the DSS, so I'm being discriminated against on that basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16447	Thank you. The word has Vlatko Ratkovic as a national MP, a member of the ZES parliamentary group, which has 88 minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16448	Mr. Vice-President, as regards the amendment to Article 19(1), which was jointly submitted by Donka Banovic, Zoran Shami and Nikola Lazic, is indeed fundamentally, contentally identical with the amendment of Goran Mihajlovic to the same member's position, it is not linguistically, but it is the same content and essential. Goran Mihajlovic's amendment was accepted by the government and the parent board. It became an integral part of the law. In front of the Legislative Committee, I can say that your amendment is still a matter of legal and technical regulation of the text of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16449	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 19th amendment was submitted by MP Goran Mihajlovic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Member of the 20th amendment was submitted by Ambassador Borislav Pelevic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has an amendmentr, Mr. Borislav Pelevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16450	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the respected citizens of Serbia, the amendment refers to Article 20, adding Article 3 which reads: "There is no discrimination against the ban on the conclusion of homosexual marriages." This bans homosexual marriages, which is the essence of this attitude. The explanation is very simple, because the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, in Article 12, provides that from the moment they become capable of marriage, men and women have the right to marry and to establish a family according to national laws that regulate the exercise of this right, and the national law governing the achievement of this right is precisely the highest of our legal acts, which is the Constitution, which in Article 62, says, "The marriage is concluded on the basis of the free consent of men and women before the state authority". Of course this is all clear and there is no such attitude in the law, but you will understand that few Serbian citizens know the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Freedoms, and believe me, few people have read our Constitution. I think the adoption of this attitude, or this amendment, would clarify the dilemma that exists in the public of Serbia, because the vast majority of Serbian citizens believe that the task of this law is precisely to regulate the conclusion of homosexual marriages, and one part of Serbian citizens think that this is only an introduction to the implementation of such a law that follows us, and I belong to that group. I think the adoption of this amendment would break down all the doubts in the Serbian public and that it would be quite clear to all of us that this law does not oppose our traditional values, nor does it prevent the path to European integration. Thank you very much. During this speech the MPs of the SRS were banging on the benches. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16451	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Milos Aligrudic, Nikola Lazic, Donka Banović and Zeljko Tomic together submitted the 20th amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is Mrs. Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16452	A little time for a long amendment. The amendments in point 2 are more clearly described as gender-based discrimination. I'm talking about the amendment. In the reprehensible position 3, the public sphere is precisely defined, in which behaviour is encouraged by prejudice and stereotypes of the role and character of the sexes. Article 4 is exempt from discrimination on the basis of half of an opinion on customs and social patterns contained in traditional cultural models, guaranteeing citizens freedom and equality in the choice and practice of cultural orientation, which is set out in point 2. The bill of law is inadmissiblely constrained. Then, we suggest adding a new attitude 4, where the freedom of scientific and cultural creation is also protected, as well as the right and freedom of churches and religious communities to treat gender equality with their teachings and autonomous regulations, which are recognised and protected again by the Law on Churches and Religious Communities. I really think the government should have accepted this amendment to Article 20, because it would have greatly improved this bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16453	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Markovic Palma, Petar Petrovic and Jasmina Milosevic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MPs Milos Aligrudic, Zeljko Tomic and Donka Banovic together submitted to the title above Articles 21 and 21 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is Mrs. Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16454	On behalf of the DSS MPs, together with my colleagues, I have submitted an amendment to Article 21, where we propose that the words "sexual orientations" are changed in the words "sexual definitions", that Article 21 is changed and said "sexual definition is a private matter and no one can be called to declare its sexual definition, and discriminatory treatment for expressing sexual commitment is forbidden". We also propose this amendment to add a new position on 2nd, which reads: "No discrimination is considered any free expression of attitudes on sexual definition, and in particular the expression of attitudes and teachings within the framework of religious, learned and cultural action, provided that this does not call for hatred, violence and the denial of the constitution and the law of guaranteed rights towards persons in view of their sexual commitment." I think, as with the previous amendments, this amendment, if you had adopted it, would have greatly improved the bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16455	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 21 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Bortic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Member of the 21st Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Bozidar Delic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by the Vice-President of the Assembly Mr Bozidar Delic, the applicant for the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16456	The Honorable Presidency, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, this is exactly an amendment to Article 21, where the second sentence is deleted in paragraph 1, and two positions are inserted which are exactly the same as the proposal the government adopted. According to one of the previous speakers, the government's practice is precisely discrimination against MPs, their involvement and work here in the Assembly. We have already said several times that if we work together here in the Assembly and we all work together on the well-being of Serbian citizens, then we should not be discriminated against by sitting on the left or right side. I guess what's more important is the content of our amendments, not who wrote the particular amendment. I say, I've mentioned it before, the difference is that the accepted amendment has two attitudes, and it's proposed three attitudes. They're exactly the same. The person accepted has one letter "a" because it is given only in one position. Mr. Minister, think about it when you talk about this, because if we're talking about discrimination, we really feel discriminated against, our work has been reduced this way by the government, because something that is completely identical can be accepted because it came from the ruling furniture...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16457	Two minutes, sorry, it's over. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 21 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Jankovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is Mrs. Alexandra Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16458	Here's the central question of this law. So, the amendment that I submitted to Article 21 after the first attitude "sexual orientation is a private matter and no one can be invited to publicly declare their sexual orientation" is deleted: "Everyone has the right to freedom of expression of their sexual orientation, and discriminatory treatment for expression of sexual orientation is forbidden". It is unacceptable for us from New Serbia to guarantee freedom of expression of sexual orientation. So, it is about tendencies that fall within the domain of every man's private life and public expression that are opposed to the Constitution, law and international documents guaranteed the right of citizens to protect public morality, private and family life, and incomparableness and dignity of human personality, as well as religious beliefs 95% of Serbian citizens. Serbia's constitution limits these guarantees to the following types: freedom of expression of religious beliefs, freedom of expression of nationality and a general guarantee of freedom of opinion, expression of ideas and information. So sexual orientation doesn't fall into the order of these phenomena. Freedom of expression of sexual orientation is not guaranteed even in the legal denials of the United States, Germany, France, Croatia. What does not offend morals and religious beliefs is not sexual orientation, which is, in fact, its public expression. Thus, it is undeniable that discrimination against such personalities should be effectively prohibited and that holders of such personal tendencies should not be deprived of the right to express ideas and thoughts. But what's also the fact that this aggressive campaign of geylobi has just unnecessarily raised tensions and developed animosity, even among those who have not been homophobic so far... (President: Two minutes. ) Can I take it from the MP's group? What is the real question is whether the prohibition of one kind of discrimination implies a permit for another type of discrimination. A estranged group called the free-minded group, the four of them from "Quiria", took money from the Ministry of Culture to show its gay guru in the monastic clothing and to push through the slogan – a vasalin for Uroš. Is that discrimination? On the one hand, they demand that their gay rights be not discriminated against, and on the other hand, endanger all human rights of prisoner Uros Misic. What's a fact, is that the people are already sick of this law, I'd rather not tell you, they use that Serbian word that starts with "p" and ends with "r," that law and debate, and there's a proposal that I've heard today, which is that in these modes of sexual activity, allowed, it also introduces a mental anti-natural fornication with the people. Yesterday at the Academy of Ceremony for the 10th anniversary of the bombing, academics Matija Bećkovic said -- a man who did not rule himself, ruled the world, and at the end of the 20th century and coronated his rule with the busiest Sunday, the bombing of Serbia, turning the EU and NATO into a new Monika Levinski. If he has not succeeded in doing so with Serbia, will you allow it, you gentlemen of power?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16459	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 21 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Aleksandra Ilic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Here you go, four and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16460	I have submitted an amendment to supplement Article 21, by adding in Article 21, in a third row, the orientation – the words "but in this way, taking into account the way and the process of expression, especially in traditional environments, where sexual orientation towards the same sex is still unacceptable and the environments in which minors prevail", and then continuing the current text. By adopting this amendment to Article 21. The draft law on the prohibition of discrimination, which refers to discrimination based on sexual orientation, reads: Sexual orientation is a private matter and no one can be called to publicly declare his sexual orientation. Everyone has the right to freedom of expression of their sexual orientation, but in doing so, taking into account the way and procedure of expression, especially in traditional environments where sexual orientation towards the same sex is still unacceptable and the environments in which minors prevail, and discriminatory treatment for expression of sexual orientation is forbidden. The acquired education in the family and the acquired views of life, social education and school education affect the formation of a person, who cannot change his understanding overnight and accept such transformation of his personality and challenges conflict with himself, because by yesterday all these were taboo topics and immoral behaviors. We're getting into a situation where exceptions start making rules. What makes a taboo subject so important by yesterday, that it grows into advertising and acts stimulatingly on young people in the phase of forming their personality? Since we are all trying to accept European standards in order to open the door on our way to Europe, even though we are all for this Europe, we cannot literally accept everything right now. So far, it has been shown that the key to this gate is in the hands of the Netherlands, and I'm afraid we'll have to accept, among other things, the Dutch tradition of advertising prostitution in glass windows, in which living exhibits are offered. This amendment is not accepted on the grounds that it does not comply with the purpose of the Prohibit of Discrimination Act, which is currently protecting minorities in all environments. This is absurd. I don't know what it's going to look like, and what kind of reaction it's going to be if it's in the middle, where underage faces prevail, for example. in the school yard or in front of the school, when students go out, hug, kiss and otherwise express their sexual affection for two men or two women. I don't know what it's going to look like or what it's going to be like in the back of the country. My amendment only warns of the need for a gradual introduction of a particular population to these European standards, so that this would not be considered as a provocation at this point.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16461	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 21 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Elena Christmas-Talian. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Articles 22 and 22 of the amendment, together with the correction, the MPs Donka Banović, Milos Radulović and Aleksandar Pejcic together submitted. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment, with correction, is legally possible. The word is Mr Milos Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16462	Dear MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, on behalf of the DSS parliamentary group, with fellow MPs Mrs. Donko Banovic and Mr. Aleksandr Pejcic, we have tabled an amendment to Article 22, where we have put the title above Article 22 - child discrimination, change and vote - age discrimination. Article 22 adds a new position 3 which reads – it is forbidden to discriminate on the basis of an age. Article 22 adds a new position 4 which reads – older people have the right to decent living conditions, without discrimination, and in particular the right to equal access and protection against neglect and harassment in the use of health and other public services. We believe that the proposed amendment makes a logical mistake in the law, age and childhood, youth and age, so it is necessary to change the title above Article 22 and make changes that are listed in the amendment. We are surprised that this one logical amendment, which was submitted by the DSS parliamentary group, you did not accept, because this merger would only give us a more rational solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16463	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 22nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Cedomir Jovanovic, Nenad Milić, Ivan Andric and Vesna Pesic, Natasa Micic, Slobodan Maras, Nebodsa Prokić, Nebojsa Rangelović, Judita Popović, Kenan Hajdarevic, Zoran Ostojić and Zarko Koraić. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The 22nd amendment was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is Mrs. Zlata Djeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16464	On behalf of the New Serbia parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 22, first of all, that the existing position of language and style is being redecorated, although the important things in that position, as I have suggested, are really being kept. Just an explanation that such an amendment does not correspond to the purpose of the law does not stand, a reason why the amendment has been rejected, so I will read it: It is forbidden to discriminate against a child, or a minor according to birth, gender, property, social status, activities, expressed opinion or conviction of a child, parents, guardians and family members. So this is something that is absolutely the right of every child, every resident, every citizen of Serbia, and it is guaranteed by our Constitution. Serbia has always been famous, recognized and respected in the world precisely because of its multiethnicity, multi-confessionality, multiculturality, in which we have been an example and other examples of many in Europe, who are now trying to teach us a lesson and that we are required by some legal solutions that could long have been copied from our existing laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16465	Thank you. Anyone else want a word on this amendment? No, I don't. ) Ljiljana Miladanovic submitted to Article 22 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 22 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Jankovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Mrs. Aleksandra Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16466	Article 22, following the second position, adds item 3: "Dicrimination exists if children are threatened with the right to national, cultural and religious identity. No one has the right to change the existing religious identity of a child, nor to prohibit it from freely exhibiting it." The adopted Convention on the Rights of the Child of the UN has guaranteed the right to national, cultural and religious identity, and no one can impose a child's acceptance of a different creed than his existing or his parents' creeds. Article 70 of the Family Law provides for the right and duty of parents, so of course and fosterers, to direct the child to the adoption and respect of the value of the emotional, ethnic and national identity of his family and society. "Marriage Policy", author Dobrila Grujic, director of the Centre for Family Accommodation of Children and Youth, is expected to be controlled to meet the social, emotional, educational, cultural, religious and other needs of the child, as well as to cultivate the identity of the child. The main objective of this amendment was to prevent possible abuses of the authority position, whether it be the educator, teacher, teacher, temporary guardian or fosterer, and in relation to the already adopted values of the emotional, ethnic and religious identity of the family in which the child acquired a certain cultural and religious identity. In a conversation with parents addressing the Shepherdal Orthodox Centre of Belgrade-Karlovakia, we have come to know that there are several cases described that the child is referred to a foster family belonging to, say, “Jehovah’s Witnesses”. I have already pointed out the case of Sladjana Jovanovic and her daughter Sandra, whose foster family practically disabled communication with children of Orthodox religion, made it impossible for the child to wear a cross around his neck, the child was baptized, raised in Orthodox spirit, and even to celebrate his birthday, because it is not according to the rules of "Jehovah’s Witnesses". This mother was worried, she spoke to the Centre. Turns out the Obrenovac Family Accommodation Center has experienced approximately 15 such cases. While adoption and foster care are awaiting, in Serbia, it seems that some centres, in practice, could be said to "sale children's souls" to various sectarians. I really think that, despite the fact that in some other things we do not understand or agree on, this is a very important issue, because it is about the future, not only of the physical, but of the spiritual future of the entire nation, and that the worst form of manipulation right now is of child manipulation, which becomes a victim of religious sects, which are ultimately unpunished by Serbia. I'm asking you so much, Minister, to respect this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16467	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Article 23 and on Article 23 of the amendment, together with the correction, the MPs Donka Banović, Milos Radulović and Aleksandar Pejcic submitted. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment, with correction, is legally possible. The word is made by MP Milos Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16468	This amendment essentially follows the analogy of the previous amendment, because the DSS proposal is to unite both of these members into one member, where age-based discrimination would be. It's surprising that you really don't have the hearing and understanding of a member like this and of an amendment like this. However, the fact is that this law, the draft law on discrimination, came to the Assembly, first of all, under the pressure of a gay lobby, which he asked to enter, although we have the opinion of religious communities, the expert public – there was no debate on this. However, the government has assessed, and the question of why the government did so, to put this law in the assembly procedure. We have so many problems, the economic crisis, that the people expect us to have a debate here in the Assembly, and together we all participate in taking adequate measures to overcome the crisis. It is obvious that, in connection with the media, you, above all, want to draw attention to the moment in which the citizens of Serbia are, that we have been discussing this law for three days, and the people cannot wait, because we have a situation and a crisis.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16469	Anyone else want a word? Mr. Vlatko Ratkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16470	Thank you. I believe that the amendment submitted by colleagues Donka Banovic, Milos Radulovic and Aleksandar Pejcic is unacceptable. He's asking for an expropriation of article 23. It's a bill of law. Article 23 refers to discrimination on the basis of an age, i.e. a ban on discrimination against old persons. We believe that the intrinsic merger in the previous amendment is these two categories – children and old people. We believe that these are particularly vulnerable groups and that this law must act preventively in the protection of both children and the elderly. Therefore, the member is located in chapter 3 – special cases of discrimination, thereby giving importance to the protection of this category of our population, which are old. For these reasons, the amendment is unacceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16471	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 23 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Jankovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is Mrs. Alexandra Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16472	Here I am again, for a change. Article 23, following the 2nd position, adds Article 3, which reads as follows: "Disdiscrimination on the labour market is prohibited in view of the age. An equal approach shall be guaranteed when applying for a working relationship, regardless of the age of the candidate, if he/she has the appropriate professional qualifications, or fulfils the conditions for performing the given job." The aim of this amendment is to prevent unwarranted distinctions and unequal treatment of persons who compete for a particular job, and only on the basis of their age, which cannot be a guarantee of adequate completion of work tasks in younger candidates, nor an obstacle to the successful functioning of those candidates who, by age, but not by their abilities, belong, conditionally speaking, to the elderly population. A large number of middle-aged people remain jobless, whether because they are unable to find adequate employment in the labour market, whether because they have stopped the need for their jobs in businesses and institutions where they have worked successfully, and it is announced that 10,000 people will be out of work monthly. The age category itself cannot constitute a basis for discrimination in employment, with a more precise definition of the age limit for a given age. The term - old, does not indicate at all what is the lower or upper limit of age, so that it is not known what category of the population is, are these pensioners or what kind, or are they working? Inaccurate definition of the adult line allows for extreme arbitration in the approach, and for some employers, they will already be workers of 40 years of age.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16473	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 23 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljiljana Miladanovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) Member of the 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Mr. Momir Markovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16474	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Article 23 is an essence, a concentration of discrimination just the old to which this article refers. I'll read it, and we'll analyze it together. He says the old are entitled to dignified living conditions, without discrimination. Is that the old ones who've been creating this country for 40 years, and today they're feeding on folk kitchens? Is it the old ones who built themselves in all 40 years, and today they can't afford bread? Are those the old ones we see in front of the post office in miles? They're the ones who can get to the post office to take that little church girl. In particular, it says - the right to equal access and protection against neglect and harassment in the use of health and other public services. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, do you know how much it costs for the medications that these very old ones have to use to extend another day of their lives? Can these pensions, the miserable pensions that this government has provided them, which it has led them to meet the needs of exactly the purchase of drugs? I've got a pensioner, my mother-in-law is a pensioner, she's got a solid pension, and almost her entire pension is leaving her unmedicated. Thank God he does. There are those who don't, who have four, eight thousand each, are the largest number of pensioners with these minimum pensions. Do you think, gentlemen, that it's not cynical, that it's not rude in Article 23 to say - discrimination is forbidden?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16475	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 24 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Bozidar Delic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 25 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is Mrs. Pop-Lazic, the applicant of the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16476	Ladies and gentlemen, Article 25 refers to discrimination over political belongings. I think it is clear to all of Serbia's citizens who are monitoring the work of this Parliament, that political discrimination exists in this country, just because it exists in parliament. Because if we are discriminated against here, representatives of the people, you can imagine what they are doing to other people, citizens of Serbia, who are declared members of one, the other or the third political party, but it is important that the opposition political party. We don't have the right to a replica, we don't have the right to come anywhere we want for a pay phone, as much as they give us for us, so much we can. Much more important than that is the 2nd position my amendment refers to, where on behalf of the parliamentary group, I place fascists, Nazis, racists and globalists on the same level. They're all the same ideologies, with the same goal. The explanation is clear. In my opinion, globalism is just as evil as fascism, and Nazism, and racism, and has produced a number of sad consequences felt by the Serbian people, and exactly the same as these other three ideologies. The NATO Pact has left us with what it has left us, the consequences that, I suppose, you, Minister, need to know, and I only have some data, I only have 20 seconds to say it, but let's say in Vranj, in 10 years, 12 times has increased the number of cancer patients. In the next decade, they say the consequences of NATO bombing are expected to further increase cancer in adults and genetic deformations in newborns. It's this globalisation, and it's brought us globalisation, and you're flocking to that ideology. We've never seen anything good before, nor will anyone see it. The experiment is repeated in other countries, Serbia was only the first.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16477	Anyone else want a word on this amendment? (No) The 26th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Snezana Stojanovic-Plasic and Gordana Rajkov. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The 26th Amendment was submitted by MP Gojko Radic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 27th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Cedomir Jovanovic, Nenad Milic, Ivan Andric, Vesna Pesic, Natasa Micic, Slobodan Maras, Nebodsa Prokic, Nebojsa Rangelović, Judita Popović, Kenan Hajdarevic, Zoran Ostojić and Zarko Koraić. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Zlata Djeric has tabled an amendment proposing that a new Article 27a be added after article 27a. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is Mrs. Zlata Djeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16478	On behalf of the New Serbia parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 27, which is scheduled to add a new Article 27a after article 27a. This article reads: “Disting among civil war victims is forbidden. ” First of all, all discrimination provided for in this law is possible discrimination. One discrimination was committed by this law to the civilian victims of war. Civil war victims have never been so currently discriminated against as they are at this point. Incidentally, and nothing is by chance, just yesterday we marked the tenth anniversary since the beginning of the famous action, which, ironically, was called "the Merciful Angel". No one has mocked us so much throughout the history of the Serbian people as the one who came up with the name for the NATO bombing operation "Mercy Angel". It was the worst slap ever before that very act of bombing that for a long time disfigured us. Civil war victims, first of all, I mean civilian victims of NATO bombings, they increase every day. We're still not even aware of the number of victims. We're not dealing with serious research as a result of NATO bombing. I'll tell you what I know for sure: the number of malignancies has increased a dozen times. The number of malignancies is primarily worrying among children. No one is seriously involved in this research. Desperate parents look for ways in medicine, in alternative medicine, the various pharmaceutical mafias drag them through their hands – and here no one takes the issue seriously to deal with it. The Italians, of course, care, Mrs. Pop-Lazic, I know that for a fact. So I ask you really to accept this amendment, and by doing so, you're equating these increasingly numerous victims of war, at least with this law, with all the other victims of discrimination that we've talked about so much. First of all, I'm telling you on behalf of the parents of children who are victims of NATO bombing, because I'm one of those parents, too.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16479	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 28 of the same text, MPs Otto Kishmarton and Marina Ragush submitted. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Miss Marina Ragush.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16480	Mr. Chairman, my time is running out, and I haven't even come to the speakers, so please respect that. Thank you very much, Mr. Novakovic. So we were really trying. You have an explanation for this amendment. We think it is an unconstitutional category, as is the case with all other creditors, so they are not based on the highest legislative act of the Serbian state. But what we really should finally turn our attention to, I really hope that these minutes and 27 seconds I can finally finish the story that I started the other day. First, another appeal to colleagues from the ruling coalition that makes power in Serbia – 15 minutes may be too much to explain the amendments, but you will admit all two minutes is too little. The state of Serbia is indeed located in historic, economic and social difficult moments as rarely recorded or perhaps unrecorded in the last 20 years. The rise in unemployment, the inability to respond to daily challenges, will bring all of us Serbian citizens into the same situation -- there will be no family in Serbia that will not be touched by an accident. What I would like to say at last and at the end of my attempt to present on the subject of the amendment to the proposed law – that the SRS parliamentary group will launch an initiative to set up a subcommittee, based on Rule 40 of the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, which will deal with the protection of human and minority rights. It is part of the answer that you, Mr. Minister, have remained in my debt – how that democratic government, from entering a political scene in terms of power, has not made. Here, the SRS parliamentary group will do it. Mr. Novakovic, here's the final thought. We now appeal to the citizens of Serbia – to direct all submissions to the Subcommittee on the Protection of Human and Minority Rights. Looks like there's gonna be a lot of work here.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16481	On the title and title above Articles 28 and 28 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Member of the 28th Amendment was submitted by MP Meso Omerovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Mr. Omerovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16482	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear ladies and gentlemen, fellow Members of Parliament, Mr. Minister, the amendment I submitted to article 28, I wanted to specify the provisions of the laws governing the choice of trustees. Article 28(2) states that "the candidate has at least 10 years of experience in legal affairs in the field of protection of human rights". In the amendment that I have proposed, I stress that there is at least 10 years of experience in legal affairs in the area which is important for the performance of tasks within the authority of the trustees. A second position was added after point 3 which reads: "4 is affirmed in the area of protection of human rights". The amendment mitigates the imperative laid down provision on the necessary work experience in the field of human rights protection, which could lead to different interpretations, evaluations and dissuasion when considering evidence of material and biographical data for candidates on work experience. It is more appropriate that candidates in their application, in addition to submitting evidence of the length of work experience needed in legal affairs, in particular point to their engagement, affirmation and results achieved in the field of human rights. Finally, I note that there are many respected lawyers in companies, in institutions, in centres such as social protection, and in ministries Mr. Minister and everywhere, who have no doubt to meet these conditions for selecting trustees, but it is necessary for them to explain their affirmity on the protection of human rights, in particular, in their biography. That is the essence of my amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16483	The 28th amendment was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandar Pejcic, Vladimir Milentijevic and Dragan Šormaz. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is Alexander Pejcic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16484	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the Honored Ministers, myself and my colleagues Vladimir Milentijevic and Dragan Šormaz have tabled an amendment to Article 28. Namely, the law prohibiting discrimination has introduced one category, which is the category of trustees to protect equality. It states in the law that on a proposal from the Constitutional Affairs Committee, its candidacy is accepted or not accepted by the National Assembly. It also states who the references and criteria are must meet the candidate, and among other things – to be a lawyer, to have 10 years of work experience and point 3 to have high moral qualities. We have suggested that point 3 be deleted for one simple reason, since we do not know who estimates its high moral quality. Who's that? Is there a committee on the Constitutional Affairs Committee? Is that some kind of imaginary commission? We don't see who's estimating it in this law. There's also the possibility that the candidate in the biography would indicate that he's gay. I had one candidate. Does this candidate have high moral qualities if he lists his sexual orientation in his biography? That's a question for you, Mr. Minister. How do you classify the high moral qualities of these candidates? For these reasons, we have suggested that point 3 be deleted, because we do not have a precise provision that actually determines high moral qualities. Another thing, when we talk about discrimination, then I have to tell you -- that on this side (shows to its left) 13 MPs, and on this 43, and that's discrimination.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16485	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 29th amendment was submitted by MPs Gojko Radic, Vladan Jeremic and Sasa Maksimovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is Mr. Sasa Maksimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16486	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honored Presidency, Mr. Minister, an amendment that provides for the removal of Article 29, which I have submitted on behalf of the Parliamentary Group Forward, Serbia-Tomislav Nikolic, is nothing more than the submission of the bill with the previous amendment to Article 28, which was submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. Prohibition of discrimination, i.e. The principle of equal protection of rights and freedoms is the basic values of the legal order and society in general. Basically, the job of patrons of citizens is the same job as the trustee for the protection of equality, no matter what you say. The protecter of citizens' rights has four deputies, one of whom could certainly carry out activities related to the ban on discrimination. Although the proposal for a law with the trustee as a solution is based on a recommendation from the Commission on racism and intolerance of the Council of Europe, and a proposal with the protection of citizens, or his deputy, who suggests a parliamentary club, Forward Serbia-Tomislav Nikolic, is also fully in line with the recommendation, but is much less expensive. Respected Serbian citizens, it is about 40 million dinars for the trustee, administration, plus cars, offices, office materials and equipment, etc. It seems to me that every third law is followed by the establishment of a new agency, so we're being followed by a recycling agency, an environmental agency, we already have, so all the other agencies that are coming to us, 29,000 workers in the state administration, and you're talking about a reduction. In the meantime, you're increasing the administration, and you're hiring new people in newly established agencies. The SNS advocates reducing the state administration and public spending, not for increasing, which you have practically foreseen by the draft anti-discrimination law, which is inadmissible under the conditions of the economic crisis, especially since we are expected to rebalance the Republic's budget.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16487	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Articles 30 and 30 of the amendment was submitted by MP Predrag Mijatovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is Mr. Predrag Mijatovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16488	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, for a set of amendments that we have submitted on behalf of SNS-Tomislav Nikolic, the explanations will be very similar, but I suppose the Ministry will eventually accept that amendment, because it is about... I'd like you to calm down, gentlemen. (President: By who knows which time, I ask you to allow the atmosphere suitable to address the speaker, which is appropriate to the Assembly. ) All right, all right, and that music is quite pleasant to play. The amendment refers to the title and subtitle of Article 30 and refers to the termination of the trustee's term of office, and is related to General Delic's amendment and to the amendment to Article 1 submitted by the DSS parliamentary group, Mr Aligrudic and Donka Banovic, which is the choice of creditors. The European Commission also recommended 2nd of 1997 for racism and intolerance to recommend that this function may be carried out by the trustee, his deputy or a certain parliamentary committee, or possibly by the protection of citizens. In this situation of the economic crisis and the coming tide of the economic crisis, when citizens are expected to tighten their belts and when the government proposes certain measures, which I must admit, will rather bring down the standard of citizens, wage reduction, income tax above 20,000, I think it is entirely, as my colleagues have so far stated, the non-discriminatory formation of a new service within the ministry, which, as is said, will increase some 30-40% of employees with its accompanying equipment. I think it's illogical, and at this point, if it's not too harsh, and it's amoral to introduce a new trustee, a new service into our legal system.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16489	Thank you. It's been a while. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 30 of the amendment in the same text, MPs Igor Bečić and Bojan Mladenovic submitted. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 30 of the amendment was submitted by MP Meso Omerovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Mr. Omerovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16490	Mr President, this amendment concerns a member who speaks of the termination of the trustee's term of office, or the conditions for its resolution. I have proposed to amend point 2 of the bill, which states that the trustee is relieved of his duties "when the court finds that the trustee has committed a criminal offence for which a sentence of five years of imprisonment or a more severe prison sentence may be imposed". I suggested that "if by a judicial decision he is convicted of a criminal offence to a prison that makes him unworthy or inadequate to perform this function". I think the Criminal Code provides for a whole series of very serious crimes for which a sentence of less than five years is prescribed, which are completely incompatible with the duties of the trustees. As a result of this amendment and the proposed solution that they foresee, I would like to remind, Mr Minister, and the laws that we have already adopted, as regards the protection of citizens and the trustee of the availability of information of public importance. For the sake of uniformity of the rules, but I also essentially think that this amendment of mine is more correct, because the elected trustee, now I'm going to move on to one, it seems to me, a more understandable dictionary, can be convicted of a criminal offence for which a sentence of less than five years is foreseen. I'll only list some crimes for which the Penal Code provides for a sentence of less than five years: theft, embezzlement, extortion - up to three years in prison. Severe physical injury – up to five years old, abandoning a helpless person – up to three years in prison, not helping a person in danger – up to one year in prison, injury of equality – up to three years in prison, abuse and torture – up to one year in prison. Can a person who has committed this kind of crime, for whom a sentence of less than five years in prison is intended, remain in the capacity of the trustee? I don't think he can, because this crime makes him unworthy to perform his duties as a trustee, and in that sense my proposed amendment, which has been accepted by the Justice and State Administration Committee, has been accepted by the Legislative Committee, and I think that the Ministry you represent could do the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16491	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Meho Omerovic has tabled an amendment proposing that new titles and new members 30a and 30b be added after Article 30. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legal, but is not submitted in accordance with Article 147(2). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Mr. Omerovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16492	I'm sorry, I know you're all at the end and out of strength. First, I would like to point out, Mr. Minister, the Honorable Chairman, that there is a mistake in the Legislative Committee report. I am sorry that my esteemed colleague Vlatko is not present at the moment, he is the chairman of the Legislative Committee, because the Legislative Committee has said that this amendment, which, after Article 30, I add two new members, is legally possible, but that it does not comply with the Rules of Procedure. Probably alluding to the fact that I had an amendment to Article 30. However, respected friends, ladies and gentlemen of the Legislative Committee, you are all graduate lawyers and must know the methodology for writing amendments in the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. When a person submits an amendment to Article 30 and, after the second amendment after Article 30, adds two new members, these are not two amendments to the same Article of the Law. Please be more careful in the future. In two new members, I have also proposed to provide for a deputy trustee, who does not exist in the bill. So that there is no confusion, if we are already establishing an institute of trustees, as an independent body that answers only to us, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, then it is quite logical that there must be a deputy. Why? Because in the event of the prevention of trustees, the deputy will also answer to the National Assembly. The bill stipulates that there are three confidant assistants. However, Mr. Minister, trustees are not elected by the National Assembly. So I can't answer to the National Assembly. That's why I had the amendment predicting that the assembly, apart from its trustees, would elect and deputy trustees, and that the number of trustees would be reduced from three to two. This, conditionally speaking, does not increase the administration or costs or the financing of this institution, and I think that this trustee institution could gain on its own right and that it could have its true and real form.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16493	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 31st Amendment in the same text were submitted by MPs Jelena Budimirovic, Vuceta Toskovic and Filip Stojanovic. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is Miss Jelena Budimirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16494	On behalf of the Progressive Group, I have tabled an amendment proposing that Article 31 be deleted. It's a bill of law. Article 31 refers to the position and salary of the trustees for the protection of equality. The Serbian Progressive Party believes it is unnecessary to introduce special institutions to protect equality and it is totally unacceptable, under the conditions of the economic crisis, to increase the state administration. By forming an institution for the protection of equality, consisting of a trustee and a professional service that assists him in carrying out his duties, the government has once again shown that he is not socially responsible and is unable to deal with the economic crisis. On the contrary, he is very wasteful. Instead of resorting to a more economic solution, the government will burden the budget for 40 million dinars by implementing this law. Under this bill, the trustee would have the right to pay equal salaries of judges of the Supreme Cassation Court, as well as the right to compensate for the costs incurred in connection with the performance of his office, and the state apparatus would increase by 30 to 40 officials, who, in the capacity of the professional service, would assist the trustee in the exercise of his competence. Instead of laudingly throwing away, MPs' Forwards Club believes Serbia should be defined as a more economic solution. In addition to the Assembly Committee on Gender Equality, on equal treatment and availability of rights to all citizens without discrimination should be the old civil protection officer, who has four deputies and a professional service. In this way, an unnecessary multiplication of the state administration and an increase in public spending during the economic crisis would be prevented, in which a daily large number of people are jobless. During this speech the MPs of the SRS were banging on the benches. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16495	Thank you, Miss Budimirovic. The word has Mr. Filip Stojanovic following the same amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16496	Dear People's MPs, ladies and gentlemen, the Honorable Minister, I have submitted an amendment to Article 31. Proposal for a law prohibiting discrimination. The intention of the SRS through this and similar amendments is to point to the senselessness or unnecessaryness of this law. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, through its provisions, envisioned all necessary standards, built all necessary mechanisms to ensure the rights and freedoms of citizens, i.e. prevents any kind of discrimination. In the SRS' view, it is pointless to provide non-constitutional categories of creditors with constitutional mechanisms for the protection of human rights and freedoms. Serbia has all the necessary institutions that this job must do, it is only a political will of the executive authority which obviously does not exist, and even if there is no recognition and is not in the function of Serbian national interests, but in the function of decommissioning the Serbian national being.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16497	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. The title above Articles 31 and 31 of the amendment was submitted by MP Meho Omerovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 32nd Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by the international MPs Zoran Babic, Dragan Colic and Marina Toman. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is Miss Marina Toman.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16498	Ladies and gentlemen, the amendment provides for the erasure of Article 32. It was created as a logical trail of previous amendments, i.e. that the trustee is an unconstitutional category and that discrimination should be dealt with by judicial authorities, as well as by the protection of citizens. On the other hand, if we do so on the other hand, we should not forget the difficult economic situation and the inappropriate increase of the administration. Serbia is a state that has a bulky state administration. According to 2007 data, a state-owned apparatus at an annual level cost citizens of Serbia 42 billion dinars. On the salaries of the administration, Serbia then allocated 10% of GDP, and one Bulgaria, for example, only 3.5%. Today, when GDP growth is only 0.5% according to optimistic forecasts, the share of profits will be higher. On the other hand, the state apparatus will increase compared to 2007. So on the one hand, we have a very large number of agencies, somewhere around 14, we have various administrations, a large number of ministries, and on the other hand, an economic crisis that further collapses the collapsed economy anyway, and somewhere in the middle of a request to form an institution of trustees for equality. This institution will have a professional service, three assistants. This institution, besides wages, must be provided with resources for work, space, etc., and all this requires additional expenditure. Is it fair, then, to the citizens of Serbia, who face daily the dilemma of how to survive, to form this institution? Is it fair if citizens are threatened by the introduction of social taxes, by freezing work disputes, by increasing their salary tax from 12% to 20%? Isn't that a kind of discrimination against Serbian citizens? Isn't that a message - tighten the belt, because we're going to put the burden of the economic crisis on your back.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16499	Thank you. The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16500	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister is not in the hall, on the basis of Rule 147 of the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, on behalf of Parliament's Forwards Club, Serbia-Tomislav Nikolic, I have tabled an amendment to the draft law prohibiting discrimination. The amendment concerns the removal of a member of the 32nd draft law, i.e. the abolition of the professional service of trustees and his assistants, which, if you adopt such a law, will cost Serbian citizens an additional 40 million dinars. For this money, you can, for example, build another kindergarten in Vrnjačka Banja, so that children are not really discriminated against by waiting several months in rows for kindergarten. For 40 million dinars, you can buy a magnetic resonance machine, necessary for early detection of uterine cancers, so that we are no longer the first in Europe for the mortality of our mothers, sisters, wives. For 40 million dinars, many more schools can be equipped in Serbia, that all our children have the same chance of education and advancement. Such financial support for women, children and the sick, you would have shown in action the fight against discrimination. But no, you chose to pay extra honors to your party colleagues with 40 million dinars, to further feed the massive administration anyway. As a result, SNS MPs, or the Forward Serbian-Tomislav Nikolic, will not vote for the bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16501	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 32nd amendment was submitted by MP Meso Omerovic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 32nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Arsen Đuric, Donka Banović and Nikola Lazic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is Mr. Nikola Lazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16502	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first of all, I would like to commend the representatives of the ministry who sit very safely today and listen to the debate on amendments. I think it would have been much better if the ministry's representatives had shown so much patience when it came to the organisation of public debates and calling all the social factors on the debate. We think that we would have a much more coherent bill and therefore have a much smaller number of amendments. The argumentation of previous speakers, which spoke of the bulkiness and the cost of state administration and the new alignment provided for by the introduction of the trustee's post, are precisely in favour of the DSS amendment, which envisioned that the work of the trustee for the fight against discrimination is carried out by the public's protector, as he could immediately begin to do so, while the trustee is expected to assume this duty only in 2010, on the one hand. On the other hand, there would certainly be no new employment and new harmonisation of the administration. Of course, since the amendment has not been adopted, this is an alternative amendment that predicts that the trustee, instead of three assistants, has one assistant. Of course, I think that for the beginning and some of the work that would be done during this initial period is quite enough to have one assistant, and if the need is imposed, it can certainly increase.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16503	Anyone else want a word? (No) On the title above Articles 33 and 33 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Antic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been given by MP Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16504	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 33. The amendment refers to the trustee for the protection of equality and for SNS Tomislav Nikolic's efforts to implement maximum savings in the budget, and for public expenditures of the state and government, and for the private and state sectors to be placed in a level playing field in any way. In order to convince you in some way, I have prepared a few data that I hope will be concerned with the government and the representatives of the ministry. So, according to the National Employment Service, there was quite a stretching figure that we lost between three thousand and 10,000 jobs per month, and by unions, this larger number of 10,000 jobs. According to them, we're going to lose close to 100,000 jobs this year. The fact is that we have currently blocked nearly 60,000, which is that small medium-sized enterprises, that probably one half of them will not be able to get out of the blockade, that they are facing liquidation, that each of these companies has between three and four employees, only there have a troubled hundred thousand jobs, that we have a large number of companies that are in restructuring and a large number of jobs in these companies – close to 52,000 per union data and that, unfortunately, and those companies that are privatised, they have a deadline that they have had to keep workers, so those three years they had to do, and on that side we can expect to lose jobs. So, if at this point in the private economy... (Chairman: Time, Mr Antic. ) we lose jobs, it is illogical for the state to insist on new jobs and new costs.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16505	Anyone else want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Dimitrijevic to Article 33. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a folk letter from Lydia Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16506	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment that I have submitted to article 33, I have suggested that this member be deleted as a whole. Article 33 refers to the jurisdiction of the trustee for the protection of equality, established by this law as an independent state body. Article 33 states that the trustee: 1st receives and examines complaints over infringements of the provisions of this law and gives opinions and recommendations in concrete cases and makes measures in accordance with Article 40 of this Act; 2nd gives the complainant information on its rights and possibilities for the initiation of a judicial or other safeguard procedure, i.e. recommends a standstill procedure. All 9 points of responsibility of the trustee are further listed. The position of the SRS is that under the conditions of the economic crisis there is no need to increase the state administration, thereby causing an increase in public spending, especially if it is about inventing new state bodies which are, in addition, a constitutional category, i.e. They are not foreseen by the Constitution. With the establishment of trustees for the protection of equality, there is a duplication of competence, as everything that is put into the jurisdiction of the trustee by this bill should be in the jurisdiction of the judicial authorities, and there is also a protection of citizens. I think the headlines in the press, which we've been able to see these days, about reducing the number of ministries, are just empty stories. The true solution to easing the consequences of the economic crisis does not exist.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16507	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) To the title above Articles 34 and 34 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milet Poscurica. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 34 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dušanka Plecevic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is Mrs Dušanka Plečević.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16508	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to article 34, which reads - article 34 is deleted. This article reads - the trustee adopts a Rules of Procedure on work which determines the way he works and acts. The Commissioner for the Protection of Equality is not foreseen by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and is an anti-constitutional category. The protection of equality should, above all, be dealt with by judicial authorities and by the protection of citizens. The function of the protection of citizens is, in addition to protecting citizens from the will of the state administration, obstruction, corruption and other illegalities, and to protect citizens from discrimination. The introduction of an institution of trustees for the protection of equality is accompanied by the formation of professional services and additional employment in the state administration, which already has too many employees. Since the arrival of DOS to power in various coalition variants, around 20,000 workers have been additionally employed in the state administration. In light of the reasons for the adoption of this law, it is said that they are in compliance with international standards and obligations undertaken by ratifications of international contracts, particularly those relating to guarantees of human rights and freedoms, harmonisation of our legislation with the document "Aki Communitre", as well as to the lack of an integrated system of protection against discrimination in the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, which would establish general conditions, measures and instruments that would allow an even more effective fight against discrimination. This is not true, to say the least. All the laws of the Republic of Serbia, starting from the Constitution, have always been and are based on democratic principles, principles of equality of citizens, nations, minorities, religious communities, ethnic groups, which automatically characterize them as anti-discriminational. It is not clear what the billmaker had in mind when he gave this explanation.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16509	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title and subtitle above Articles 35 and 35 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Knezevic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by MP Milan Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16510	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, in front of Parliament's Forwards to Serbia, I have tabled an amendment to Article 35 of the Law, which refers to subtitle and member of the 35th delete. In essence, this amendment of mine makes the continent with the amendments of my colleagues that have previously been made, and in principle, we have stated that Parliament Club Forward Serbia – Tomislav Nikolic believes the introduction of a trustee institute is not good for two reasons. First, this same job can be done in quality, along with the appropriate organization of the Protector of Citizens. On the other hand, we have judicial authorities that can do the same in an appropriate way in a quality way, and the other item is rationalization. So not only my amendment, but the amendments to all MPs relating to the Institute of Trustees submitted by my colleagues from the Prosperity Club, Serbia represents an improvement of this law, one rationalisation that we need in this time. Basically, a series of these amendments are intended to improve the quality of this law. Thank you. During this speech the MPs of the SRS were banging on the benches. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16511	Thank you, and I'm sorry for the beating. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 35th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16512	I think this law was written by a man who has no idea what human rights are. Mr. Minister, I'd like to recommend a few books, but in my election, the book of Professors comes first. Dragan Stojanović – Judges of the Constitutional Court, who doctored primarily using examples from German theory and practice on human rights, on individual rights, on which they are absolute, which are not absolute, and that I no longer bother you with it. I must draw public attention to me, in addition to the Protector of citizens who care about human rights, I must tell you that discrimination is, above all, an act that violates certain guaranteed human rights, so that it belongs to the Protector of citizens within his jurisdiction. In addition, there are judicial authorities, administrative authorities, there is a Constitutional Court and a constitutional appeal category, even to the European Court of Human Rights, where there is the possibility of a presentation to initiate proceedings to protect individual human rights. Of course, here you chose the wrong concept for the simple reason that you are, and I don't know what made you do it, you tried to define discrimination by law, and you know that my freedoms and my rights are limited and limited by your freedoms and your rights. After this law, you will have a conflict of freedoms and conflict between the rights of individuals who rely on what the Constitution guarantees them, which is what the Constitution guarantees them. There's going to be a big problem. This isn't going to look like anything in practice, so I have to distract you, because this law is going to be inadmissible. (President: Thank you. ) Another sentence, Mr. Novakovic, will be interesting for you. Right there's only one category when the defendant is obliged to prove it, it's in the case of slander. You've changed the principles of the evidence process here and you've set everything up because someone told you that this marginal group, whose rights you're potential for, should bring us into Europe. It's hard on us and hard on Europe.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16513	Three sentences, but thanks anyway. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Dragan Markovic Palma, Petar Petrovic and Jasmina Milosevic submitted to the 35th amendment. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 36th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by the international MPs Radica Jocic and Zoran Mašić. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is Mrs. Radica Jocic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16514	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in front of the SRS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 36. Proposal for a law on protection against discrimination. Otherwise, Article 36 of the Law states: The Commissioner is acting on a complaint if the case before the Court of Justice is not already in place or has been brought to an end. The trustee shall not act on the complaint if it is obvious that there is no infringement of the right to which the applicant indicates, if he has already acted in the same matter and no new evidence has been offered, as well as if he finds that due to the time since the infringement of the right done, it is impossible to achieve the purpose of the action. I asked the amendment to delete article 36. The SRS believes that the trustee for the protection of equality is not foreseen by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and is an anti-constitutional category. The protection of equality should, above all, be dealt with by the judicial authorities and the Protector of Citizens with his four deputies. Several times in the debate, both in particular and in principle, it has been said that the introduction of a category of trustees for the protection of equality would be just another way to improve the number of domestic party personnel, who will receive salaries, and will not contribute anything to the situation in Serbia, as far as protection from any form of discrimination is concerned. The government's relationship to the protection against discrimination and the protection of human rights also says that if the crisis in general reduces the number of ministries, the first to strike against today's written media is your ministry, Mr. Chiplic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16515	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Articles 37 and 37 of the amendment was submitted by MP Stefan Zankov. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has the People's MP Stefan Zankov.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16516	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, an amendment that I have submitted to Article 37. The draft law is a logical continuation of the previous amendments submitted by the SNS from Article 28 concerning the trustee for the protection of equality. It is clear that we insist that the work of the trustee for the protection of equality is carried out by the protection of citizens, and I do not understand why no one from the ruling majority or possibly Mr. Minister has tried to explain why such a solution would not be acceptable to the promoter. I mean, I was just saying that you've already committed this place to someone from the ruling coalition, but you didn't want it to be visible in advance in the bill, so then the MEP's group submitted amendments that eased the conditions that the candidates are supposed to meet for this place, and you've still allowed yourself to propose a place of trustee, because you probably couldn't share this place in the ruling coalition, so to speak, and that trade will eventually have to pay the citizens of Serbia. With another 30-40 people who will work in the service of the trustees, you only multiply the administration, and you do not solve any discrimination problems in Serbia, and that is absolutely certain. On the other hand, the public defender has, I mean, four deputies and a service that could be involved in the business, because it's very similar matter. I repeat, the state and local self-government should, under the conditions of economic and social crisis, save, and not keep asking citizens to tighten their belts, as they have already violated the incomes for the citizens and the course of the dinar. I'm done. We insist on accepting our concept, because the state will benefit more, and the rights of the discriminated and the threatened will not be protected in any way. During this speech the MPs of the SRS were banging on the benches. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16517	Does anyone else want to follow this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 37 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The People's Messenger Radisa Ilic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16518	The amendment to Article 37 proposes that Article 37 be deleted, which concerns the determination of the facts of the trustee. So, the trustee takes the part, as I would say, of some big inquisitor who's going to investigate who insulted, who cursed, looked around, stepped in town transport, put a fly in the soup, broke his hair pin, banned him from entering some gay woman's bathroom. And so the trustee will be nice enough to sneak up on applications, play Ilija Cvorovic, see who dared to threaten homosexual or gay rights there, guaranteed by all possible European decorations, directives, conventions and, unfortunately, this law in Serbia. Imagine that a husband and wife, a homosexual husband, a normal woman, and she loves men as well as husband, and underage children should belong to one of the parents. If by any chance a wife's lawyer dares to say that her husband is gay or gay, and that raising a child in that sick environment would be a disaster for a child's psyche, the lawyer would expressly end his career, because he would be under the influence of this law. In the end, we all expected to go to Europe thanks to the export of agricultural products, healthy food, tourist offer, healthy drinking water, when... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16519	Thank you. Time's up. The title above Articles 38 and 38 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Antic. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 38 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Sladjan Mijaljevic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The People's Messenger Sladjan Mijaljevic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16520	Dear Chairman, fellow Members, I have submitted an amendment to delete article 38. The Commissioner for the Protection of Equality is not foreseen by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and is an anti-constitutional category. The protection of equality should be dealt with by judicial authorities and the protection of citizens. We have thousands of laws and regulations, but it is a question of who is implementing them and how people who are injured can bring their justice to a solution, that is, to their advantage. Article 38 says - the trustee proposes to implement the settlement procedure in accordance with the law governing the mediation process and before taking other actions in the process. Here's an example, three days ago at the bookshop "Nikola Pasic" someone fired a firearm, my favorite bookstore. When the employees came to work and saw it, they called the police on the phone. The police asked to write a written request to come out and make an insight. I wonder how the trustee will reconcile the director of the bookstore and the one who shot her? How long will it take him? Who in Serbia and how should certain wrongdoers be brought to justice and lead to either a certain calm or the implementation of this law? We think, and we have proven to these amendments, that this is indeed another dead letter on paper, another law in a series of those laws and with a list that is required by some institutions from Europe to be implemented, by those who finance you in various ways. And we had a dialogue two or three days ago, Mr. Bozidar Delic, you have a great idea, you have sponsors who finance you, Sonja Biserko... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16521	Anyone else want a word? The word is Miroslav Markicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16522	Dear Vice-President, Mr. Minister, respected citizens of Serbia, at the end of this several-day debate, I would like to conclude a few things on behalf of the New Serbia Parliament Club and direct some messages to the citizens of Serbia. The debate on this law has inevitably united Serbia. Unfortunately, tomorrow when it is voted here, the united opinion of Serbian citizens, mostly, will not be shown in the hall. I just want a few messages to direct all of us to our thinking. There's money for "Quire," and there's no money for Philharmonic. There's money for "Quire," and there's no money for disabled people. There's money for "Kvirija", no medicine for children with cancer. I want these 60 seconds I have dedicated to this social minority, obviously discriminated against by the government of the Republic of Serbia, the disabled. There's 800,000 of them. It's not their fault they're disabled. Every single one of us, God forbid, can happen tomorrow. Mr. Minister, cut your salary to the ministers, cut your salary to the MPs, cut your salary to all officials in this country, from the local community to the top. Don't discriminate against the disabled, if you know for God's sake. Don't put wrath on this poor country.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16523	The title above Articles 39 and 39 of the amendment was submitted by MP Otto Kishmarton. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 39th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marko Milenkovic. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above the members of the 40th and on the member of the 40th amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Mr. Arsic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16524	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I can tell you that this is the way you have come up with this law that is hardly applicable in practice. So you're building a parallel state body even though it already exists in our legislation and in practice such a state body that needs to do one of these jobs. In addition to being one and how great financial expenditure for Serbian citizens at the time of the economic crisis, I also don't think they can give effect. I don't have much time to talk and make a parallel to what one or another option would look like, but I can only tell you that our people and they like to complain, that this trustee will be covered by various applications, requests for re-examination, and I'm quite sure that in that sea demand simply they will make examples of abuse from this area to be buried and to remove these abuses won't even come. I can also tell you when it comes to Western legislation, don't look at them all, adapt to our conditions and possibilities, the West is fighting the global economic crisis by spending, our country is fighting savings, and most of all in the field of savings when it comes to public spending. This way, this certainly won't work, except we'll spend 40 million dinars a year.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16525	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 40th Amendment was submitted by MP Pai Momchilov. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Mr. Paja Momchilov, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16526	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable Chairman, the MPs of the SRS here in the 12th hour work uninterrupted, while you from the Bureau are changing neatly and renewing your energy, of course, you need it, because you have extremely difficult tasks, and these are the tasks of the Kerberian. We suggested that the 40th be deleted. He's pointless. If I wanted to explain it now, so that the citizens could understand what this is all about, it would only take me two minutes to tell the contents of that member, but we think, I'm about to say that it's pointless for a member like this to exist. We said everything, that the trustee shouldn't exist and we explained clearly enough why it shouldn't exist, because of an increase in the administration. You know, in 2000, civil servants serving this government and the ministry were 8,000, and now there are 21,000. What does that mean in financial terms, we don't even have to talk. Therefore, we have here and a pointless provision for this trustee to warn someone. Imagine, if a genocide situation happens and then what this trustee is going to do, he needs to warn someone, if he strictly applies this member of the law. This is a decadent and hypocritical law, which does not have the support of most citizens and should be made clear. I'm not saying it's also a law that is directed against children, and children must be the greatest wealth of a society. It is also known by its provisions, where you promote homosexuality and these homosexual relationships. Unfortunately, he'll appear to be voted, most of the time, so can I just finish one sentence, you'll have helpers here. On one show you say about this: you only have one idea, you have sponsors that finance you. Sonja Biserko replied, and the same ones who finance you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16527	Anyone else want a word? Member of the 41st Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Jadranko Vukovic. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Mr. Vukovic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16528	Dear Mr. Novakovic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in article 41, the motion says anyone injured by discriminatory action has the right to press charges against the court. It goes on to say - the provisions of the Law on Procedural Procedure are applied accordingly. It goes on to say – the procedure is urgent, and finally – the revision is always permitted. In front of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to this article with a proposal to delete it. Why? Because it is unclear how the Proposer imagines genocide and ethnic cleansing to be contained in the litigation process as difficult forms of discrimination as referred to in Article 13(4). It's a bill of law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16529	Anyone else want a word on this amendment? No, I don't. ) The 41st Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Nikolic, Nikola Lazic and Donka Banovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is Mrs. Donka Banovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16530	Dear Presidency, fellow MPs, I must express my suspicion that Minister Ciplic is more able to monitor our discussions. I have to give him a confession that he's a long-standing sitter, but it seems to me that since this morning since we started working today he's never come out to comment on any amendment. It's impossible that all our amendments don't deserve a little attention. If you remember, he accepted, I guess, the government accepted, although it was not clear because counterpart Ratko Vlatkovic (Vlatko Ratkovic) accepted the amendment. That was a little unusual. I didn't react, the minister was there, so I think he needs protection, maybe protection of the citizens. But let me just go back to this amendment. Therefore, the DSS proposed that this law be the law on which the protection of citizens will be taken care of. It's an institution that already exists, which has formed its service, if you remember, a few months ago we also elected assistants to protect citizens. So, this is the creation of some parallel institutions, with this amendment that I have filed, that is that "if the trustee finds that a person has suffered discrimination, he can press charges against the court on his behalf". I don't think it's bad for him to be in Article 41. It is true that in Article 46 we have about the same thing, however, in Article 41, which bears the title – jurisdiction and procedure, it is not enough to stand just for what is numbered.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16531	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 45th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Radovic, Donka Banović and Zeljko Tomic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 45th Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Jankovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member Srdjan Spasojevic submitted to the 45th amendment. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 45th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Miroslav Petkovic, Zoran Nikolic and Arsen Đuric. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is Mr Miroslav Petkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16532	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, counterpart Chiplic, the DSS Parliament Club has tabled an amendment to Article 45. You will not mind if I allow the minister to accept the amendment tabled by counterpart Donka Banovic, who suggests that this member be deleted, because the DSS parliamentary group considers it totally unserious to enter into a law provision – that the defendant is burdened with proof that he is innocent under the law. The reasons we received from the government are not entirely satisfied with the DSS MPs. We don't think this provision can stand in the law like this. We have proposed to delete this article, and by other amendments we have proposed the addition of this legal provision. Unfortunately, these amendments were not accepted. We have indeed tried to correct the bill through 13 amendments, but obviously we have not come to an understanding. I agree with all my colleagues who have said that this law will be absolutely inadmissible in practice. Our expert team has seriously considered all these legal provisions, and it has very well-intentionedly approached this law, along with all the criticisms that we have made over the past few days. Unfortunately, we have been dealing with all the peripheral things for a few days, rather than considering the problems that affect the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, to consider the measures to prevent the coming economic crisis, we are dealing with some completely irrelevant things. The public is upset about it, but there are days, believe me, so both Mr. Ciplic and his government colleagues will have a chance tomorrow and, of course, Friday to answer a number of questions that we will ask them. Instead of being protected, primarily by judicial officials, who are being dropped bombs and killed like rabbits in Serbia, we are dealing with a law that regulates gay rights. We are here, the citizens of Serbia have heard clearly our views and I am sure they will understand in what direction this law leads the Republic of Serbia – certainly nothing good for our country and for this Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16533	Thank you, too. Since the time has elapsed for discussion in particular on the basis of Article 143, we have completed the examination of the draft law in particular. (Zoran Krasic, from the site: Read at least all the amendments that have remained and have not passed. I ask if a representative of the motionor, Minister Svetozar Ciplic wants a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16534	Dear MPs, honourable MPs, it's an unusual pleasure to speak to you, and I've been looking forward to this moment. Someone said, I completely agree with that, and I just want to add -- that during history, the Serbian state was conceived and created by saints, but the Serbian state was also created by reformers. This law is one of those laws of reform and reformer. What especially impressed me is that the best argument is that this law should be passed by fellow respected MPs who said they would not vote for the law. It may be a paradox and a paradoxical way of co-operation in Serbia, but it says the law will be passed. That he would be brought in for a reason. I'd like to take a brief look at the amendments. For Article 1, 57 of the amendment has been tabled, for Article 2. 54, for Article 3. 56, for Article 4. 55 and for Article 5. 57th, I still wouldn't talk. What is most significant in the legal and technical sense, these were often amendments to the amendments. You practically can't accept it, because you don't know what you really wanted, which is the ultimate will of the promoter. Two were the most important or should we say the most attractive member – Article 18 and Article 21. In Article 18, which speaks of the ban on discrimination against religious freedoms, there was no dilemma that the norm, the member was made in agreement, in compromise with representatives of churches and traditional religious communities. That's what I said at the very beginning of the presentation. That was true then, and it's true now. It was true that the article could read, that the honourable MPs and MPs were reading and what was not there, but what is important to this government as a promoter is that this member had just entered that form and content that was proposed by the high representatives, the churches and the religious communities. Article 21, such a disputable member, is actually very simple. He gives no right to this, but protects the existing right that exists in the constitutional Corps of Human Rights and Freedoms. Finally, it seems to me that we all know that Serbia is as strong as human and human, and this law is making a contribution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16535	I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. National MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. You want to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure. Here, you get a word based on Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16536	I assume that, Madam Chairman, and you noticed that the minister addressed first and foremost the SRS parliamentary group regarding the number of amendments and said in one sentence that it was obvious that we did not know what was wanted by this law, or what should be achieved by this law. You said something like that, didn't you? Yes, you did. I just want to tell you that we were absolutely aware that this law is due to the fact that we are culturally and ideologically subject to brainwashing.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16537	Members of Parliament, please state which member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Since you do not have the right to reply, you have been given the right to speak of the violation of a member of the Rules of Procedure and I ask you to make it clear that there is no abuse.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16538	I don't know how you can take my word from me if we've heard from the minister, if he's spoken to the parliamentary group and if I can't answer as deputy head of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16539	You have no right to a replica. Please specify which member of the law is injured.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16540	You can see why we are against the law, because it is impossible to implement it. Who am I to ask for protection from now, from you?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16541	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Milos Aligrudic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16542	I think your predecessor, the chairman, has injured Article 143. Rules of Procedure. It's about the way a debate is held in particular. Namely, he practically concluded the discussion in particular, believing that those 10 classes had expired to explain the amendments by the applicants of the amendment. However, the debate in particular has not been concluded until all amendments on the agenda have been read and not given the opportunity for MPs to respond in accordance with the time remaining in accordance with Article 143. Rules of Procedure. If there is no remaining DSS or SRS time, other political parties remain. Just because you assume that no one from the ruling coalition, whose time is left, will call to discuss the amendment, does not mean that these amendments do not need your predecessor, Mr Nikola Novakovic, to read. He has to read them and ask if anyone's answering for a word. Unless there's a changeover to the next one. I know it's boring, I know it's probably hard at this time, but it just has to be done. You'll probably do it. Otherwise, the minister could have called whenever he wanted to respond to the amendments, could have done so now, as he did and as he was called to do so, he could have done so at any time during the debate. So there's no injury in that part. So, the minister could, as he has now done, do so at any time during the debate, but Mr Nikola Novakovic, the chairman, could only say one thing, that the opportunity to move forward in terms of Article 143's position was ended, MPs who submitted amendments to explain them, but every MP has the right, in accordance with the time left, to respond to the amendments and you give them the right to do so. I hope you do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16543	There is no violation of Article 143, nor did Vice-President Nikola Novakovic read the sentence – I am concluding a review of the proposal for a law on details, and I began reading that sentence at the moment when MP Gordana Pop-Lazic asked for the word to speak about the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Anyone who still has the opportunity and time for the debate to come forward may report and this is not related to any of the amendments that are in the procedure, which are amendments from 418 to 462, including 418 and 462. The obligation of each applicant of the amendment is to provide an explanation of why it submits the amendment. All applicants have done so and these amendments will be subject to a decision in the voting day. There is no business obligation, no need to read which amendments are made from 418 to 462. National MP Milos Aligrudic is asking for the Assembly to plead on the violation of Article 143. National MP Zoran Krasic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go. You have a word based on Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16544	Mrs. Comic, I must draw your attention to Article 27 and to Article 143, and I must warn you that there is a Constitutional Court decision concerning this issue which you have interpreted this way. First of all, I'll start with the Constitutional Court's decision. I wrote in 2001, when you wrote that Rules of Procedure, I asked for an assessment of the constitutionality, I annulled seven provisions of the Rules of Procedure, and for 14, it seems to me, the provisions of the Constitutional Court did not come out, but gave a positive opinion. One of these provisions is also a provision that made it impossible for MPs to submit amendments to each member of the bill. At that time, the Constitutional Court concluded that it is the unimpaired right of any MP to submit an amendment to each member of the bill. The unimpeached right of MPs is also to explain its amendment. The fact that you have done your own legal massacre to the Rules of Procedure in Article 143, so you have set something as a subjective deadline for MPs for two minutes to explain the amendment, and an objective deadline for the entire 10-hour assembly, that is one legal nonsense unrecorded in parliamentaryism. To get out of this situation, I advise you to allow any MP who has submitted the amendment to explain his amendment within two minutes. Anything else, if you do, you're making a serious breach of the Rules of Procedure, the Constitution and everything normal, and I'm not talking about how contrary it is to the spirit of parliamentaryism and the sense of tolerance. Of course, by advertising this breach of the Rules of Procedure, I urge you to correct your behavior.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-25-0.u16545	Two minutes. Thank you. There's no damage to article 27. I'm applying Article 27, and you've abused Article 100 by repeating an injury to Article 143 which has already been made by... People's MP, please listen to the chairman while he gives an explanation, so we don't waste any time and I don't have to repeat what I said. I said that there was no violation of Article 27 and that I was taking care of the application of the Rules of Procedure by applying Rule 27 and that you misused the Rules of Procedure by quoting Article 143 as injured, giving you a warning that this is the basis for a warning. Is there anyone else who wants a word? No, I don't. ) If not, I conclude the examination of the bill in particular. The National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, in particular, and in general. Since the National Assembly has held a debate on all points of the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 85(3). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby set Thursday 26 March 2009, starting at 10.00 a.m. as a day for voting on all agenda points of the Second Session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009. Thank you.
