ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27509	Thank you. I'm reporting from the Rules of Procedure. I'd like to point out that during yesterday's session, the Rules of Procedure were violated, because it took longer than 1800 hours, and we didn't get notice that it would work longer than 1800 hours. I would also take the opportunity to meet MEPs on the SPI initiative directed to the Privatisation Agency. The MPs of the SPO ask the Privatisation Agency to suspend any further sale of assets subject to the new restitution law, which will be passed by the end of the year. Serbia's public has been informed that a restitution law should be passed by the end of the year, first the government should adopt a 'proposal' and then enter the assembly procedure. The SPO is pleased with the message that our coalition partners...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27510	I'm sorry, it's clear what message you had, no injuries to the Rules of Procedure. We closed the session yesterday before 6:00 p.m., and the text that you're saying, here, and the presidency finds that it absolutely doesn't comply with what we have the right to do in today's session. Hello, Mr. Minister, please. I suppose the conditions have been met... Mr Dragan Todorovic, advertises the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27511	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am advertising the violation of Article 149, where it is said: 'The legislator, the committees responsible and the Government, are obliged to consider before the National Assembly meetings, the amendments submitted on the draft of the law and to inform the National Assembly of which amendments they propose to be accepted by the National Assembly and for which they are rejected. ''No matter what Article 141 and its final position, I would like for the public, and also for the other MPs in the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, to point out that at the scheduled session of the Committee on Defence and Security, for who knows which time, it is repeated quite often, the representatives, or MPs of the ruling parties, did not come, and therefore the Committee could not consider the amendments, as well as to propose to the Assembly, or to declare whether the amendments were accepted or not. It has already become a practice, that you are unable to agree, to agree, that MPs fulfil the most elementary obligations they have, which is to come to committee meetings, to start in time with the Assembly, to finish in time, because it is true that you injured the Rules of Procedure yesterday. Obviously, you have to change the secretary, because he's incapable of pointing you to some problems, it happens quite often. You closed the session yesterday, and after that, you suddenly remembered that the minister was sitting there. We've had a chance to see you exorcise the ministers before 6:00, because your goal is to move on to the next item of the agenda. You do not care at all that the Assembly is doing its job, that MPs are doing their job in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and with the Law, you are only interested in obtaining the epithet of an effective Assembly, that is, the greater the number of proposals by the legislative authorities you accept and fully devis the role of Parliament, as some kind of control function of the executive and judicial authority, in the extreme line, because you accept completely, without any criteria, everything the Government proposes. To begin with, I suggest you change the secretary, especially because the secretary behaves biasedly when the MPs of the Serbian Parliament are concerned, whether similar or inappropriate, of those for whom certain things are secured, for others they are not. That's never happened before. It's never happened before. Either there will be really MPs here who will have the same rights or tell us – you simply have no rights, we will not allow you what we allow...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27512	Mr. Todorovic, it's been three minutes, three and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27513	I would ask that you, as speaker of the assembly, really take care of it and make it clear whether the MPs are equal or not, whether the heads of the parliamentary groups are equal or not.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27514	Mr. Todorovicu, your exposure has obviously exceeded the time terms that are scheduled and the content does not correspond to the breach of the Rules of Procedure, in fact there is no breach of the Rules of Procedure. I'm sorry the board's session wasn't held, but you've scheduled it. The fact that it has not been held, in accordance with Article 141, the last position says: "If the committees do not deliver reports, or government opinion on the bill, the bill will be considered without these reports, or opinions. '" So I didn't hurt the Rules of Procedure. What we will consider and what we will do is absolutely in line with the Rules of Procedure. Are you picking up again? There's no basis for reporting.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27515	I'm reporting under Rule 27 of the Rules of Procedure. I'm right.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27516	You're reporting under Article 27? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27517	Dear People's MPs, Article 27, reads: 'The President of the National Assembly: 'He does the work provided for in the Constitution,' chaired by the meetings of the National Assembly, 'he takes care of the application of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. "Mrs. Dejanovic, I read to you a member saying that the government and committees are in debt, I suppose, that's quite clear to you what the word "debt" means. He almost says they're mandatory. It's just a little less of a definition than being mandatory, but it's understood. You know, this isn't a departmental community, but this is the Serbian Parliament. There are extremely important laws on the agenda. A large number of proposings, a large number of amendments were scheduled to come to the Committee's session. The only reason the Committee has not been maintained is because the ruling majority has not come. You don't respect the Parliament, you don't respect your minister. People from the Department of Defense who came here to, I suppose, defend those views, in the way they think, or the bill, you've made it impossible, just because you're unable to provide a elemental matter, to attend the Committee and to provide the quorum. No one asks you there to prepare or speak, but simply to come, to record you, to do the quorum, because you are not doing anything here in the Serbian Parliament either. This part of the congregation that represents the majority serves only to press buttons and nothing else. And that's the problem you've been facing since this congregation started.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27518	It's been two minutes. Mr. Todorovic, I'm worried about your discouragement, that feeling. Please put it on paper, all the reasons for that claim. I intend to react, at least, if I didn't get a glimpse that it exists. But please, do it. That's the first one. Secondly, I agree with you that the focus of work should be on committees and be assured that I will do everything, and I hope you, too, that the new law on the assembly will provide for it. This Rules of Procedure has not been broken, I say again, and I remind you, that you are violating the Rules of Procedure, which you are twice saying the same content. Mrs. Hope Kolundji? No, I don't. He's giving up. Thank you. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by MPs: Dusan Marić, Zoran Popović, Ljubisa Petkovic, Milan Avramović, Filip Stojanović, Milorad Krstin, Mirko Munjic, Petar Jojić, Vlatko Ratković, Saša Dujović, Milica Vojić-Marković, Konstantin Arsenović, Aleksandra Janković, Zlata Đerić and together Tomislav Nikolic, Jorgovanka Tabaković, Zoran Antic, Veroljub Arsić, Zoran Babić, Igor Bečić, Jelena Budimirović, Bozidar Delić, Stefan Zankov, Otto Kišmarton, Milan Knezevic, Sasa Maksimović, Zoran Mašić, Predrag Mijatović, Ljiljana Miladinović, Mileta Poskurica, Gojko Radić, Mico Rogović, Vučeta Tošković and Dragan Čolić. You have received a report from the Legislative Committee and the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. On the basis of Article 148(2), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Legislative Committee rejected, as incomplete, the amendment of MP Sasa Dujovic, which is added after Article 20a, which is why this amendment, acting in accordance with Article 148(3). Rules of Procedure, it can't be the subject of debate. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27519	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the position of Article 4, on which I tabled the amendment, reads: "Civil protection is an organised system whose basic activity is protection, rescue and removal of the consequences of natural disasters," so as not to read any further. I have submitted an amendment to replace these words with the following words: "Civil protection is a state system of protection, rescue and removal. "My amendment is a termological and essential nature. The term "organised system" refers to the term "terminological part". I think that this word is "organized" superfluous, because it's understood, if something can be swept under the system that it is then organized. If it's not a system, then it's not organized. As for the fundamental change, the fundamental objections to the amendments, it refers to the fact that in this proposal, the Government does not know whose protection is. As the government suggested, civil protection turns out to be an independent independent system, which has nothing to do with the state. As you know, civil protection is one of the most important state systems. There is no reasonable reason not to accept this amendment. He was not accepted for the reason he was submitted by the SRS parliamentary group. With respect to this amendment, you reaffirm your boastful attitude towards the opposition in the Assembly. You welcome the opposition when it was necessary to adopt a resolution on Kosovo, when the Assembly should make some decisions that should correct your misdemeanors, when you should fire several thousand workers from work in the ministries, your activists who you have taken to work just to make up for their party work in some way. However, when you have to do a gesture of goodwill, when you have to accept reasonable amendments to the opposition, you simply ignore it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27520	Thank you. The 2nd amendment was submitted by a group of 20 National Ambassadors of the Prosperity Group to Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Mr. Bozidar Delic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27521	The Honorable Madam Chairman, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, is the essence of the amendment provided for in this amendment to delete Article 2 of the proposed amendment of the Law. The existing defense law solution is much better than the proposed changes. It requires respect for international war and humanitarian law, and requires only respect for humanitarian law in the new proposal. This solution is probably the result of the impact of new NATO pact trends, as war is being cast out there as a concept. Instead, the terms are "campaña", "humanitarian organization", and one such as "Merciful Angel" were also felt on our own skin. By consulting experts on international law, they say that this change is absolutely not good, because the conventions signed by Serbia, then all Yugoslavia so far, and again Serbia from the 19th century, so here, until the 21st century, know the term "International War Law", so that the term "respect for international war and humanitarian law", is absolutely better than this term proposed by change -- that members of the military respect "humanitarian law". In the original version, all of this was envisaged in a way best aligned with international conventions. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27522	Thank you. National MP Zoran Popovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27523	In Article 2(2), Article 1(1), point (b) is replaced by the following: The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Defence, I submitted an amendment by proposing that the words "ruling international humanitarian law on the treatment of wounded and prisoners and protecting the population and other rules of that right and international standards on the use of force, in accordance with the Constitution and the law and approved international agreements" be replaced by the words "the Constitution, law and international humanitarian law". The position of the SRS is that, in a specific case, the legal standard should not be burdened with excess phrases and ambiguous terms. It is enough to say that members of the Serbian Army and other defence forces are obliged to uphold the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, law and humanitarian law in all circumstances. But Minister Sutanovac here adds -- "and international standards on the use of force". I ask Minister Sutanovac - who prescribes international standards, who proposes them, and what is most important about how he interprets them? What are your standards? Who benefits most from international standards on the use of force? Is it the United States, like a globalist and hegemonic force, that has the pretense to enslave and conquer as many nations and other people's territories as possible? Should our army apply exactly all the international standards applying the NATO Pact? I remind you that this same NATO pact has made a massacre and massacre in Serbia, Iraq, Afghanistan, all of it, calling for rules that it itself has established. You suggest that the Serbian Army impeccablely implements standards in the use of force, because in fact, the policy of this government is Serbia's entry into NATO pact. That's why my fellow citizens from the Ljig municipality asked me to ask Minister Sutanovac – is he the NATO Pact or Minister in the Government of Serbia?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27524	Time, thank you. You can't cut back on time! Well, he talks for two minutes, but we all have... ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljubisa Petkovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Mr. Petkovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27525	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, citizens of Serbia, in front of the SRS Parliamentary Group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 2(2) and suggested that a member of the Serbian Army and other defence forces have the right to refuse the oral order of the alleged person, if he is sure that the order is contrary to the Constitution, the law and the rules of international humanitarian law. I must draw attention to the fact that in the Republic of Serbia, there is still a law that regulates compulsory military service, that mostly younger persons, who have not studied domestic or international law, are being directed as recruits in the military and are not obliged to know whether they are committing a criminal act, contrary to the Constitution, the law and the rules of international humanitarian law. Apparently, the promoter forgot that there are under-educated persons in the recruiting frame who are completely unknown to these rules. The duty of the presumed person, or officer, is to first introduce members of the Serbian Army to the basic rules and, secondly, not to issue and prevent the functioning of individuals or groups, contrary to the Constitution, the law and the rules of international humanitarian law. If they allow a member of the Serbian Army and other defence forces to assess and decide on these issues, it may happen to reject participation in certain actions, under the pretext that the orders are contrary to the Constitution, the law and the rules of international humanitarian law, which would put the whole operation at risk. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27526	Time. Thank you. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27527	The proposed solution envisions that the defence ministry has an obligation to organise, modernise and improve a system of telecommunications networks and funds for the needs of the Serbian Army. I have submitted an amendment that I suggest that after the word "and the funds" be added the words "and other kinds of connections". I did this for a reason why I think it's a completely wrong system to base a single army on telecommunications only. I'll explain later. Practically, here's what it would mean in the event of a war, and all armies exist and are preparing for war on the assumption that one day they'll be at war? If the solution proposed by the government remains, the first day of the war, the Serbian Army will be left without a system of connections. Practically, it means you'd lose your command system. The command system would completely fall apart. We have experience from the 1991 to 1999 wars. We know that during all major actions by the Croatian military, the Muslim army and the Cypriot terrorists, the NATO Pact, which is more technologically superior, has blocked the ties between the Yugoslav Army, the Republika Srpska and the Serbian Army of Krajina. The first thing Americans did when they went into action "Storm" was to completely block the ties of the Serbian Army of Krajina. In an explanation for the refusal of this amendment, the government said, "Amendment is not accepted for the reason why the proposed solution is governed by the affairs of the state administration in the area of telecommunications and the system of links that are in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Defence, and it does not determine the types of means of links used by the Serbian Army." Listen once again to what point 22 says that I have submitted the amendment: "organising, modernising and improving telecommunications networks and protection funds for the needs of Serbia's military and other state bodies. "Now I ask the Minister of Sutanovec...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27528	Time. Thank you. The amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27529	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic, I don't think that for one second or a half minutes more than the time foreseen by the Rules of Procedure, it won't hurt the Minister to hear until the end of each MP's presentation.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27530	Mr. Avramovicu, you have a time within which you can ask the minister anything you want. I'm really asking you to use our time rationally. I'll give you your time now. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27531	I have submitted an amendment to Article 4 paragraph 1 point 23, which is closely related to the amendment of my colleague Dusan Maric. So it refers to point 23, where I ask that after the word "telecomnets" add "saves" and "other types of connection". What is essential for harmonising the telecommunications and information system of security and information and telecommunications networks and means for defence purposes, is that there should also be other types of connection. These other types of ties in the military were best shown during NATO aggression on our country, which also contributed to having, in some ways, the best form of information, both on the ground and beyond. For me, it is unacceptable to provide an explanation for the refusal of amendments, since the proposed solution states that the tasks of the state administration in the area of the telecommunications and information security system are regulated. So these two amendments are tightly bound. If the state needs to be in the service of the military, in a way, or a public enterprise of the state, which can help with its military operations, this member has an absolute foothold in the operation of military exercises, military aggression or any other type of use of telecommunications systems. Of all these, the information and telecommunications network, which are in the power of the Ministry of Defence, rather than the types of means of links used in Serbia's military, should not be separated. That's why my amendment was proposed.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27532	The 4th amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27533	I asked the amendment to replace the word "harmonization" in Article 4 paragraph 1 point 30. In the same article in point 23, which is directly above point 30 in this bill, to which I submit the amendment, the word "coordination" stands instead of the word "harmonisation". Just to remind you that the Greek philosopher Xenophan said one great thought, wisdom that says, "If vo could draw, his god would look like an ox. "If someone could transpose Western Europe's entire legislation into Serbia's legislation, I think it would be done, from word to word, from decimal point to point. Indeed, introducing foreign words into the bill, especially in the proposal of this law, is inappropriate and there is really no need. Serbian language is too rich a language, every thing, every word, every phenomenon has an adequate word in Serbian. It is best to accept the amendment by replacing the word "harmonization" with the word "coordination". Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27534	Thank you. National MP Filip Stojanovic submitted to the 4th amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27535	Dear Members of the People, ladies and gentlemen, I have submitted an amendment to Article 4(1). A bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Defence, to place a point-point after the word "Serbian Army". For what? If the ruling coalition has not noticed, there are no other military units in Serbia, except the Serbian Army unit and they are all linked to the defence ministry. Do you think any new armed formations have been introduced? How much do you praise the NATO Pact? We might think that you're predicting their troops as an alternative to the Army of Serbia, because, according to you, if we're in the NATO Pact, we don't need anything more, so we can destroy the Army. The NATO Pact is a criminal organization that unwittingly bombed our country and citizens with an impoverished uranium for 78 days. That alliance here has nothing to look for. The NATO Pact surrounds the Russian Federation military base system. They want to get hold of Russian economic resources, according to James Baker, U.S. Secretary of State in the early 1990s. Do you want to send the Serb army to our Russian brothers who have always helped us? It is likely in gratitude that in 1945, over a thousand soldiers of the Red Army gave their young lives to free Belgrade. So I urge you to accept my amendment and in some ways improve this legal project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27536	The amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Krstin. Mr. Secretary, please, just sign in. No, Mr. Christin first.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27537	Ladies and gentlemen, I have tabled an amendment to the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Defence in Article 4(1), paragraph 38, to place a point-point after the words "for the purposes of the Ministry of Defence and the Military" and the rest of the text to be deleted. In Article 4(2), even points 12, 22, 23, 30, 33, 34, 38, to which I have submitted the amendment, and 39), which means that this law has had to endure these changes that are only in your interest and those who support you. I don't know if it's possible for us to get this kind of explanation in the government's opinion. It's just amazing. I said that point 38, after saying "for the needs of the Ministry of Defence and the Serbian Army", puts a point-point and the rest of the text to be deleted, which reads this way -- and facilities for the temporary accommodation of professional members of the Serbian Army and employees of the defence ministry. Clearly, that's understood. I don't know why you keep doing this in the next text. Look at the government's opinion, what they have explained to me as a national MP in front of the SRS on this amendment. He says: "Amendment is not accepted for the reason that the proposed solution is in line with a special legal regime for the supply and availability of funds for special purposes used in the Ministry of Defence and the Serbian Army for military purposes. Special purpose funds are arranged in art. 104 to 107. Defense law. 'Well, it's clear, but that's why you're doing this at first... Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27538	Time, Mr. Christin. Finish it, please. Thank you. Ambassador Vlatko Ratkovic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Pardon me, the Government has accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Please, don't interfere with the work. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) A group of 20 MPs of the Progress Serbia Group submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vlatko Ratkovic. The government has accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The 9th Amendment was submitted by a group of 20 MPs of the Progress Serbia Group. Mr. Zoran Babic wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27539	Thank you, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic. I think I'm going to use a little bit of the Parliament group time. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, together with colleagues from the Progress Group, Serbia's SNS, I have tabled an amendment to Article 9. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Defence Act. This amendment provides for the erasure of the second position of Article 9 of this proposal. The disputed view refers to the possibility that the defence ministry can conclude international agreements that regulate the issue of common interest in defence and military co-operation, without debate and authority given in parliament. Where is democratic civilian control of the Army of the Republic of Serbia?- I'm sorry. Is she real? I'll remind you it's an obligation under Article 29. The Military Act, which speaks of democratic civilian control of the Serbian Army. This member shall contain a provision under which democratic and civilian control is carried out by the National Assembly, the Citizens' Protector and other state bodies in accordance with their respective competences. Also, I'd like to refer to article 140. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which clearly states that the Serbian Army can be used beyond the borders of the Republic of Serbia only after the decision of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. What it is like when the government and the Ministry of Defence achieve international military co-operation is an example from December 2008 when the Government of the Republic of Serbia, on a proposal from the Foreign Ministry, unanimously adopted a conclusion on participation in a military exercise in Georgia. Serbia's Army General Staff officially reported in early February 2008, the foreign ministry, which is a NATO co-operation official, that the Serbian Army is interested in participating in a NATO exercise in Georgia, at Russia's gates, even rated the exercise as very useful. The decision of incompetence, i.e. the withdrawal of the initial decision, has been explained and tried to justify a misdemeanor at the government's session. I ask you, Mr. Minister, are you the only ones who are careless at the government meetings or are careless and the other ministers in the Government of the Republic of Serbia? That's why I'd like to invite you to accept this amendment in the voting day. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27540	National MP Ljubisa Petkovic submitted to the 9th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Mr. Petkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27541	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, citizens of Serbia, on behalf of the SRS Parliamentary Group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 9. The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Defence and proposed that only after the decision of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia could it carry out the activities provided for in Article 9, i.e. to conclude agreements governing issues of common interest in the fields of defence and military co-operation. The SRS believes that only the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, as the highest legislative body, has the right to decide what common interests are in the fields of defence and co-operation and with which countries the co-operation will be achieved. The SRS suspects that the proposal for an amendment submitted by the government is about covert activities with the NATO pact's criminal organisation as a strategic partner. If the choice of states and methods of co-operation is left to the Ministry of Defence, which is headed by a member of the DS, I assure the citizens of Serbia that our sincere and traditional friends and partners from this, for Serbia, and how important areas for the survival of the Republic of Serbia will be fully suppressed. I propose that we accept this amendment in order to avoid the risk of inadequate defence of the state, its citizens and conspiracy against the Republic of Serbia, so as not to repeat an affair like the "Satellite" affair. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27542	Thank you. National MP Ljubisa Petkovic submitted to the 10th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go. (Employees earn: where's the reminder, what about the reminder? We need a reminder. It really doesn't make sense! )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27543	On behalf of the SRS Parliamentary Group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 10(2), paragraph 3 and Article 4. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Defence and Proposed: – in Section 2 that the Government of the Republic of Serbia regulates issues relating to education and the abolition of military defence delegations and military representations. - in position 3. I suggested that, instead of the Minister of Defence, the Government of the Republic of Serbia lays down and relieves the duties of defence envoys and military representatives, although I would not mind being on the proposal of the defence minister. - in position 4, I proposed on behalf of the SRS Parliamentary Group that conditions, procedures, funding and their activities abroad be governed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, not by the defence minister. Ladies and gentlemen, if you look at Article 10(1). The draft law amending and supplementing the Defence Act will make it clear to you that it is a diplomatic function. I am now interested – what is the response of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to the question of who is establishing a diplomatic function and giving immunity to our military representations abroad? Is this possible at the level of the Ministry of Defence or is immunity established at the level of the government through the Ministry of Foreign Affairs? Therefore, if diplomatic immunity is achieved at government level, it would be perfectly normal for the government to regulate, educate, make choices, or set up and resolve duties, regulate the issue of financing and abolishing military delegations and military representations. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27544	Thank you. Member of the 12th amendment was submitted by MP Ljubisa Petkovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27545	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 12. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Defence and proposed that the ban on the use of the name, symbols and other features of the Serbian Army apply to all citizens and legal persons, entrepreneurs and associations, i.e. that the minister does not have the right to approve the use of these symbols to non-members of the Serbian Army. The symbols used by the Serbian Army as a sign of recognition must be protected by law and no one from the law can be exception, and even we, the defence minister. The SRS parliamentary group is unclear as to what reasons it would be justified for the defence minister to allow certain categories of use of the name, symbols and markings of the Serbian Army. If the text writer predicted that due to the close co-operation of the Army of Serbia and certain legal entities, entrepreneurs and associations, the necessary use of common space or entry into military facilities, barracks, mentioned categories can be granted a temporary permit with a limited time limit and no later than the duration of the co-operation. The use of the name, symbols and other features of the Serbian Army by non-members of the Serbian Army could jeopardise the security of members of the armed forces, military techniques and facilities of the Serbian Army. That is why I propose that the Assembly adopt this amendment. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27546	Thank you. The 17th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Dusan Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27547	The new position proposed is: "The activities of logistics support under Article 1 may be carried out by military institutions that are organisationally and functionally related to the Ministry of Defence with legal personality status or without legal personality status. “ I suggested that these words be deleted “with the status of a legal person or without legal person, ” for the reason that it is clear from the preceding text that they are all institutions that are organisationally related to the Ministry of Defence, whether they have legal personality status or do not have legal personality. To banalise, it is as if you write that the right to park in the parking lot of the National Assembly has all MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and then add – whether they are in the ruling coalition or in opposition. I shall return to the amendment to Article 4. I want an answer from Minister Sutanovac to the following question: what is true and what is true, is it true what was signed by Minister Dacic, where it is said in point 22) of Article 4 that it is – the organisation and promotion of telecommunications networks and funds for the needs of the Serbia Army and other state bodies? I am potential - for the needs of the Serbian Army and other state bodies. The government's explanation for which my amendment was rejected says that this article does not determine the types of means of ties used by the Serbian Army. I believe that you owe an explanation: is it true what Minister Dacic signed or is it older and more accurate what Prime Minister Cvetkovic signed? So is it the funds of the Serbian Army, for the needs of the Serbian Army, or for the needs of God knows what? I insist you answer that, I think it would be a matter of elemental decency. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27548	Member of the 24th Amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) He has the word of Ambassador Dusan Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27549	(I will use two minutes of Parliament time. ) I have proposed in Article 24 of certain amendments that I will talk about, which again concern the means of ties in the Serbian Army. Unless amendments to Article 4 and Article 24, submitted by SRS MPs, the Serbian Army will become the first army in a world that does not develop a wire system of connections and a courier system of connections, which fully relys on technology in establishing a link between units, between unit commands, and fully disowns the human factor. The luxury has not allowed itself either the technological and economic and military strongest armies in the world, such as the American, Russian, Chinese and British armies, but since Serbia is run by DS and other Dossian governments, Serbia's army is full of such, and similar, abnormal precedents. I remind you, the Serbian Army, the poorer army, by order of Defence Minister Boris Tadic at the time, destroyed two thousand hand-to-hand anti-Strela anti-aircraft systems and, to make the absurde bigger, this destruction was done without need, just a few years after Serbia was exposed to air aggression by NATO. Serbia's army sells its tanks to iron smugglers per kilogram without providing an adequate replacement! Serbia's army has retired several hundred war officers by temporary retirement, or early retirement! Serbia's army is the only army in the world where a third of the soldiers serve without seeing a gun and a barracks! Instead of barracks, Serbian soldiers serve in schools, kindergartens, health homes, theatres, municipal enterprises, such as cleaners, labs, babysitters, wig guards and dog walkers. Minister Sutanovac said on Wednesday, saying here in Parliament, to impress the public, that the response to mobilization, the reaction of recruits to regular military service, seems to me, 98%, so if you invent that soldiers serve military time in spas, on the Montenegrin or Turkish coast, then there is a chance that the response will be more than 100%. You're building an army where soon most military officials won't know what a rifle looks like, let alone how that rifle is used. You are building an army that should defend Serbia, and you are making it by the rules that determine those who are objectively the only enemies, Serbia's greatest enemies, are the NATO Pact and the United States.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27550	Thank you. You've spent a minute of the MP's time. Member of the 24th Amendment was submitted by MP Ljubisa Petkovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Ljubisa Petkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27551	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS Parliamentary Group, I have tabled an amendment to Article 24(2) and suggested that persons carrying out defence planning activities and that defence plans for state authorities, autonomous provinces, local self-government units, companies, other legal entities and entrepreneurs of importance for defence be subject to a psychophysical, and I would now add to the expert review. In the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Defence Act in Article 24(2), the Proposer proposed that persons subject to a security check. The term "security check" has been overcome, used during the totalitarian regime, during communist rule, as a moral-political advantage. I would say that these times are far behind us and that responsible functions or organs in the planning and handling of certain structures related to the defence of the country are selected persons who are professional and psychophysically capable, not according to moral-political abilities. If you do not accept this amendment, it would mean that we will again be divided into partisans and Chetniks, and that every person who is not a member of the DS, without differences in professional training, has no possibility of being elected to a responsible place of importance for the defence of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27552	The 29th amendment was submitted by MP Milica Vojic-Markovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Milica Vojic-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27553	Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the DSS has submitted an amendment to this article, which reads: "Biological means for special purposes are considered: official animals, animals from scientific research, biomedical and educational purposes and other animals, based on a specific decision by the defence minister. “ Of course the amendment was not accepted, and in your explanation you called for other regulations that regulated this matter. When I wrote this amendment and filed it here, I was just referring to those regulations and I have to tell you that these regulations are called the Animal Wellbeing Act. Look at the members of this law and you will see that the amendment I submitted on behalf of the DSS Parliamentary Group is fully in accordance with that law, namely that the defence minister cannot be in charge of other matters, or other biological means, except for official animals. Look again, and I hope that in the voting day you will accept this amendment, although I doubt you knew it, because what I see, and in the last few months I've been making more and more sure that all the laws that come here to the National Assembly, and they've been sent by the Serbian Government, in fact, in dissent, have completely mixed up jurisdiction. You don't even respect the Constitution. Let me just remind you of the Information Act, so I'm not sure that, and when you look at it, make sure I'm right, you won't accept this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27554	Member of the 30th amendment was submitted by MP Konstantin Arsenovic. Here you go, Mr. Arsenović.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27555	I've welcomed this member, but given how he's been formulated, he doesn't provide for his realization especially when I've seen the answer to my amendment. My proposal was to delete the word "can" and form a housing security fund for members of the Army. However, the amendment has not been accepted, it is said to be when conditions are created. That means he'll never do it. I think it would be a good idea if you accepted this amendment of mine, I suggest you accept it, because that creates the conditions for this fund to form and solve housing problems. It's not true that there are no conditions, there are conditions, there are various ways, there are only ways to study it, and when organized approaches, I think this problem can be solved in some ways.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27556	Thank you. Mrs. Alexandra Jankovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27557	I have submitted an amendment to Article 30 of this proposal, which amends Article 107 of the existing Law on Defence and deletes the word "can", so that the position of the 2nd said member reads: "For the purpose of providing funding for the housing needs of professional members of the Serbian Army, a budget fund is formed. ''The reason for not accepting is that this law prescribes the possibility of setting up a budget fund when conditions are acquired, and depending on the available budgets, means never. I have tabled this amendment in consultation with the Veterans of Serbia Party, which, regardless of its presence in the Assembly, is an important political entity that gathers and organises about 500,000 veterans with their families. People insisted on this kind of change, because there is a real danger of resolving their housing needs, meaning all professional members of the Serbian Army, are indeed delaying indefinitely, and that this is just by economic crisis or other priorities. We've had, I don't know, sis, I don't know, all kinds of crises, it's really a question of whether these people will experience their housing problems being processed. It is particularly important that the adoption of the proposed amendment would actually begin the process of solving the problem of the homeless military, we must call them that, and their families, who have been living in inadequate conditions for 18 years. So they have the age of life under inadequate conditions. I just don't know which solution, but, well, I think the minister would have to deal with this, maybe there's an eccentric solution, maybe it'd be best if you, Mr. Minister, with the former defence minister, went to the games more often and after you had some champagne against the law, to get fines, and to define these budgets, for example, for these military homeless people. That would be fair.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27558	Time. You want them to use the time of the parliamentary group?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27559	No, I'm not gonna use it now.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27560	Mrs. Jankovic was actually talking about the amendment, therefore, about her amendment. On Article 30, the amendment was also tabled by a group of 20 MPs from the Prosperity Group of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Mr. Bozidar Delic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27561	Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the essence of this amendment is almost consistent with what Mrs. Jankovic said, it is the fact that Article 30(2) is changing and that, for the purpose of providing funding for the housing needs of professional members of the Army, a budget fund is formed. Also, we've had a lot of contacts with retired members of the Army. We all know that the military and the Ministry are burdening a large number of unresolved housing issues. There used to be a number of over 15,000 cases. Probably just the Ministry can't take care of that problem. The question is whether the problem can be solved by the entire state, which is why it is necessary to form the budget fund as an initial step. Explains that it will be done when conditions are obtained I don't think they're right. It is necessary at least that the provision stands and the opinion given here by the Government, so when conditions are obtained that the budget fund will practically begin to operate, but not then to change the legal provisions because, behold, material conditions have been obtained. If it stays as it is said and as Mrs Jankovic said – then it will practically never happen. Now I want to talk about another problem, but I want to use the time of the parliamentary group. I'm taking the opportunity because Mr. Minister is here and because we're talking about a set of military laws. I would also like to meet Mr. Minister and People's MPs that, while we are talking about a set of military laws, the Serbian government has been strikein' hunger for three days, that is to say, it has been on the strike for hunger by the wartime military disabled of the second category 100%. I want to say briefly about him – that in 1992, when the situation in the former Yugoslavia culminated, he passed all that googogue of the Artillery School Centre in Zadar and Sarajevo; that three months before the deadline he was promoted to the rank of sergeant and that he was immediately sent to combat facts in the Mostar and Nevesinj region. When the army withdrew from BiH territory on 19 May, it was simply forgotten, and besides his name, it was'missed in action'. He was 19 at the time. In 1992, he was wounded twice, and in 1999 KIM was wounded for the third time and is therefore disabled 100%. For the first time, the hunger strike took place on January 28th 2008, ahead of the defence ministry. Then, now, if I have to, I can mention names here, but I don't think that's relevant, from the Secretary of Defense's office, he's had a conversation with him. He was told to be patient and that his problem would be resolved in three to four months. Here, it's been two years. Now that same man strikes in front of the government. How are we supposed to talk about reforming the Army, taking care of people, talking about traits, talking about responsible people and worthy soldiers, when here we force one man, who gave everything to this country, to strike hunger to seek his rights? This morning he was invited, whether from the cabinet of the president or cabinet of ministers, I don't know. What's he looking for? What is he looking for? He asks for compensation based on disability, or injury. You got this, sir. Mr. Minister, I'll read you what he's looking for, and you also have all this information. You, after all, Mr. Minister, should certainly answer that man, even negatively. In this month, the President of the Republic answered him twice – one cabinet of the president, the second time the military cabinet of the president. In both memos, it says that you are the only one in charge of this and that the documents, so this letter I hold in my hand, are addressed to you by jurisdiction. Simply, over a period of 20 months, as a member of this army, even though it was in the Republika Srpska Army, it was here to receive a salary. He didn't receive two-thirds of the salary, because he wasn't even set up anywhere. There's no record of him being wounded in his file. So, absolutely, what I'm talking about, and the people of the Ministry have that and if they wanted to, they could have this problem and how quickly to solve it. Just look at your memos from the Department of Defense, when you want, Mr. Minister, this is just ridiculous. On 12 February 2008, a letter to the Military Post Office 7572 Banjaluka was sent and asked to provide information on whether he was there at the time and whether his contributions were paid. Then, the second letter is sent to the Ministry’s Secretariat, or to your Staff Office, and the third letter is sent to the General Hospital of Nevessinje to provide you with information on the injury. You didn't have that information because he delivered you this designated invalid. The fourth letter is sent to your accounting center of the Department of Defense for them to provide you with that information. What kind of handling is that, Mr. Minister, if you sent those memos two years ago, it's likely that your subordinated organisational units had to answer that question, so you should have concluded the case and informed that military invalid, as promised in 2008, what you did.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27562	Thank you. Mr. Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27563	I'm sorry you don't read the whole truth, I'm not in charge of a hospital in Nevessinje to get an answer from them, not even the military mail that's somewhere in Banja Luka. Like you said, it was 1992. Where were you then, Mr. Deliccio, in 1992? How is it possible for a soldier to experience it all in the time that you were leading the army and nowhere is he going to be wounded? What is this story where I now blame myself, 17 years after that event, because in the file that we inherited from the time you led the army, there is no such thing as a man being wounded. What you did not say, and I know very well the Stingic case, he was wounded in Kosovo as well, he received money as an asset and was resolved through a loan. There is a much better situation than in other people who have been wounded. Now that they're putting political pressure on him to pay off something 17 years ago, there's no legal basis, since you didn't leave anything documented to prove it. In Nevessinj, apparently, where he was lying in the hospital, maybe he did, they didn't provide us with that information. It's just that to help someone, there has to be a formal legal basis. He can't be helped more than what's already been done, and believe me, I mean, I don't want to be false, I'm going to get information within half an hour that two million dinars have been paid in damages. If you're interested in this case and you, and everyone else, come to the Ministry, it's not a problem, but don't take it out here that we're not going to solve this situation and help. It's just that it's a lie. Like the fact that we're not going to help people who are homeless. And let me tell you one thing, there is no professional member of the Serbian Army who is retired or who is active who does not receive any privileges because he does not have an apartment. Why is it someone's choice to live in a barracks, I don't know. The so-called increased housing costs can be up to 200 euros for those who do not have an apartment, which is why they choose to live in a so-called "wire" I do not know. It's just that it's a fact and the fact is that people who live in a barracks don't have that kind of belongings. They have, say, about 6,500, like the fact that they pay 1,500 dinars a month and have 4,500 or 5,000 left over because they live in a barracks on behalf of their pensions or salaries. Which is why their choice to live like that, I really don't know. I know that at the time of the exodus it was a privilege and it's true that there are people who have lived like this for 18 years, and it's true that there are people who, as they say, have more families going to one toilet. It's not true that the state doesn't care about them. They all receive certain financial resources with which they can rent an apartment, perhaps not in the centre of Novi Sad and certainly not in downtown Belgrade, but they didn't all come from the centre of Zagreb. It's just, I'm sorry, the state can't help absolutely everyone who came, because there's no such housing fund that can handle it. You, Mr. General, don't you, General, you know that well! You know perfectly well that everyone who works in the military, who has no settled housing issue or is retired, gets increased housing costs, and that's the privilege that only professional members of the Serbian Army have in the country, and no one else. So when talking about homeless people today, we need to take this subject seriously into consideration. You, Mrs. Jankovic, are a psychologist. Let's see psychologically why the people who came, I don't know, from Tito's core have to live in Banjaca in a circle of the Military Academy. I just need an explanation. I can't understand, if someone can get for the 150 euros family, that they don't want to move out and live in Zarkova, in that same Žarkov where they live, I don't know how many thousands of Belgrade citizens, not to say hundreds of years. And what is the difference between them or, say, members of the police who do not have the right to UTS, who do not have increased housing costs, and never complain and go out on the street to say, we are homeless. I don't want to talk about others who move around Serbia and who don't have that option. So there's no form, the homeless is the one whose army didn't settle the housing issue permanently by giving him the apartment. But each of them gets a certain amount of belongings from the years of the internship, compared to the family, whether his family works, doesn't work, whether his wife is employed or not. I say, each of them, and I almost had an officer looking for an apartment, and he has four children, pay 200 euros in Karaburma, slightly less, and he gets UTS from us 200 euros. Practically government, state, you citizens pay for his apartment. We don't have a chance to give it to them. That costs Serbia, I'll tell you about it, and I can get you the exact information, say, about 25m euros a year. So, 25m euros in budgets are being allocated, and I'm going to give you the exact fact that I'm not wrong, take this with a certain amount of free doubt, for those who haven't solved the permanent housing issue. And why isn't it solved? Because the "huge amount" of JNA members, and later probably the Yugoslav Army, came to Serbia; "huge quantity" came to Serbia from Slovenia, Croatia, Bosnia and even from Montenegro and Macedonia. It's just impossible to withstand this great pressure. And it didn't happen in my term and it didn't happen in the government's mandate before me, that problem exists for decades, and I would like us all to treat this problem the same way -- let's see how we can help. I will remind you that the Executive Major of Vojvodina has made it possible for the refugees to purchase a household in Vojvodina practically for 6,000 euros and that the Executive Council gives 3,000 euros, and that the face has been avoided by 25 euros a month, that it has a practical household, a house, a garden, I don't know what not. We've got apartments today that we offer and no one's applying for. There are apartments the Serbian Army has, offers them and does not sign up. Why? Because everyone expects they can get an apartment in the centre of Novi Sad or in the narrow centre of Belgrade, or possibly in Nis. No one's going to Zajčar, and that's the whole truth. I have no problem looking into the eyes of all those people who say they haven't solved the housing issue, asking them since when, why, and how much money they got from the state in the meantime because they haven't solved the housing issue. I will remind you, in Gadjin Han, the average salary is 150 euros or 14,000 dinars, and that is how much those officers and sub-offices get for having an unemployed wife and for a child as an add-on. So, there's no such thing as the accusations you're talking about. I think it's sad that you're saying that I should drink and pay the fine. Otherwise, Mrs. Jankovic, I don't drink!- I'm sorry. If you ever see me drinking something in a bar, feel free to come to me, I'll treat you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27564	Replica, Mr. Bozidar Delic. You don't think you're well understood, the basis for the replica, that the minister didn't understand you well? You have your word, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27565	Mr. Minister, I know you weren't a minister at the time. However, you are the minister today and have inherited, after all, all the obligations of that period. Suppose everything you said was true, but you should know that that man was 19 at the time, and that's when he graduated high school. You asked me where I was, I was there, somewhere, in those places, and I also lost my salary. I couldn't complain because that order was written only in one copy and was not available to anyone. It's all settled later. However, you are required if you have received one such request, your ministry, in 2008, to call Mr Stingic within three months and tell him – all obligations to you have been regulated by the state. Mr. Minister, one more thing, which offends me very much, you said - if he was wounded?- I'm sorry. The man's been wounded three times and disabled 100%!- I'm sorry. As far as Kosovo and Metohija are concerned, since you mentioned it, I was also in Kosovo and Metohija, and certainly no soldier of mine will come to you and ask for some privileges, except for these reserves, related to Kursumlia, who, by mistake of the government and the Ministry of Defence, have been paid off and then maybe 30 or 40,000 reservers reported after that, but none of my reserves will say they didn't receive the diaries because they all received them. And none of my reservers and none of my soldiers, the one who was under my command, will ever tell you that he hasn't solved any questions, and yet you're the Secretary of Defense, and you still need to take care of this issue because it's a shame for this country and for your ministry – that a man who's 100% disabled, here, sleeps on the street for the third night. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27566	Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27567	As soon as you move on to politics, you're immediately scarred and you're talking about something that doesn't exist. It is true that all the reservers have been granted privileges for their days and journals, as they are already called. I personally showed the delegations who came to the Ministry their signatures that they had received that money. I don't mix two things here. One thing is the reserve, and the other is Stingic, who received money on behalf of the wounded in Kosovo and Metohija. What matters, whatever I inherit, I have to work in accordance with the law, and not just me, I hope you and all of us here together, and the whole government. Even though he's wounded, and whenever he's wounded, he's just out of time, and there's no way he can charge for it. So 17 years have passed since then, and worse still, there is no material proof – where, when and how. I'm not saying, people, I didn't send this man to war, so I told him now, we're not going to pay off, everyone who has evidence, and we owe everything we owe to to the extent that we can, but to everyone! He, man, is looking for something that simply no one can pay him, whoever sits in this place won't be able to solve it the way he wants it, and the whole story is that he didn't get a chance to hurt in Bosnia and for hurting in Kosovo and Metohija is. Then he came to the conclusion that he owed it to him in Bosnia as well. It may owe him, but it can't be determined. If it is determined, it cannot be paid because the legal deadline has passed. The thing is also too clear and simple, it is life-threatening, but there are things where legislation is such that no other action can be done. Otherwise, I know this case very well, and everyone who writes, absolutely everyone gets answers. I know which general spoke to him. You're free to say, you know those people. If you tell me that these are the wicked people who spoke to him, then that would be the highlight of hypocrisy. He was spoken to by people who were very versiond and were also in wars, warring, medals for courage, and so on. So, there's nothing questionable about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27568	Mr. Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27569	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Minister, on behalf of the DHSS, I support the proposal for this law, because it means one significant change, one innovation and one step forward, something that meant getting out of a rather conservative state where the members of the Army were, and which was objectively, bad. I think this law means a desire to restore dignity to members of the Army and that's what made me want to support the adoption of this law as well as other laws in the domain of defense. I have submitted a number of amendments as DHSS MP and I am pleased that most of these amendments have been accepted, aimed at improving the text of the existing proposal. I think we're going in a good direction, because this issue is also being resolved indirectly or this first phase in solving issues and military homeless people and people who have been in the territories of the former Yugoslav republics and who have unresolved problems with their employment, about unpaid salaries, pensions, apartments that have been left there, unresolved housing issues here. It was a chain wheel, it's something that's accumulated, which is a huge problem and what needs to be resolved slowly, because really these people have been in a tragic situation, I'm talking about military homeless people. With this position, I have often talked about their status, I mentioned one case, since I live in Obrenovac, 17-18 families who are housed in the former Serbian military barracks with one toilet, with one bathroom. And when a man faces it, he must try to find a solution. On the other hand, there have also been major gaps in some past times, and while these people have been put on the verge of existence and turned into citizens of no other order, but who knows which order, let's remember that some people, accused of the most serious crimes, have been given apartments of several aris in the famous "Cvetars" or other military settlements, I don't know what they're called. Well, an army can't be somebody's mother and a stepmother! I think this law means changing that status and it means one step forward. That's the question of the reserve. I kind of took part in that story. Now it's not worth saying whether the state made a mistake or not by paying off the war logs to the Toplice region reservers. In this way, all other reserves are placed in an unequal position. It's an objective problem and the state needs to find a way out of this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27570	Mr. Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27571	I also thank you for the amendments you've made. We really accepted those we thought were changing the spirit of the law and that they were in the spirit of what was our conjecture. It's important, to say, the fact is that you say that people live in unconditional objects, that they live very hard, but it's also the fact that today they're more privileged because they haven't solved the housing issue than the salary they got 10 years ago. So it's just the bigger part. Why someone in Obrenovac lives in a barracks and has the opportunity to get out of the barracks and get 150 euros to rent an apartment, it is no longer a question of the defence system and the Serbian Army. It's very important to me that you know. We're making every effort to help these people, and we even have a situation where we can't alienate some locations from which to build a large number of apartments, because we have refugees who have moved in, not just members of the Army, but we also have people who have moved here I don't know on what rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27572	Mrs. Alexandra Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27573	This is a replica to Mr. Secretary. Based on what you said, Mr. Sutanovac, it seems that 500 thousand veterans lie, or lie to their representatives. That's why I'm going to give you this memo that our MP group got you to read, because I didn't invent that these people are just asking to simply provide funds to finance the housing needs of professional members of the Serbian Army and to form a budget fund in due course, while they're still in this body, until they've gone to "the celestial kingdom". Secondly, you're saying that there are apartments the Army is offering and people aren't going to sign up. Who knows, maybe everybody would be, like, "City girl," and you weren't born and grown-up in downtown Belgrade, so you like to live there. Third thing, you're breaking up between the military and the police. You're saying there's these arrogant military faces in the Army who won't take apartments, and the police aren't looking for it. What are you actually doing? Fourth, you don't know why they won't leave the barracks. Get some experts! You would hire your friend and president of your party to understand his psychology, but you can certainly hire experts to ask yourself why, what is it about these people – traumatism, exposure, means post-traumatic stress syndrome, war facts, specificities of service, and ultimately, mistrust in you and the institutions of your party state? So, these are the things that need to be examined and hired by experts, and that could be witnessed by the president of this congregation. What really scared me of you said the following sentence: "What do we do when a huge amount has come to Serbia?- I'm sorry. Mr. Secretary of Defense, you're talking about the people who passed the battlefield, who passed the horror movie. You say "huge amount" has come to Serbia! You don't have to apologize to me, but it would be your turn to apologize to these people. This is amazing. This isn't even for a bar. And as for the bar, of course you don't have a ghost or a sense of metaphor. I didn't say you were drinking, you're messing with the drinking story, but it turns out that the president of your party and the president of Serbia drinks alone. If I were in Boris's place, I'd watch out for these defense ministers, who are very ambitious. And I suggest you next time the president of the gouts breaks the crystal glass, because that's probably what you're best at. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27574	Mr. Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27575	Just to inform the MPs, this is not a replica. In Serbia, there are about 55,000 military pensioners and about 30,000 professional military personnel. It's not the Ministry of Defense that treats 500 thousand military veterans, it's another ministry. There's a little bit of a mix-up. We are obliged to provide professional members of the Serbian Army, whether they are now retired or still active. The difference is absolutely between veterans, reservers and professional members of the Army. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27576	Thank you. The word is Mr. Konstantin Arsenović.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27577	Mr. Minister, I have to react for the simple reason that out of your exposure and defense some views, people are homeless, themselves, guilty of the state they've been in. At least the intonation is such that everything is done. But personally, I think they're the least to blame for it as individuals. I have to say, there are some things I can't accept. I know what the problem is. There's a lot of problems, and we're aware of that. Why were the apartments built in Negotina if no one would go there? Why are apartments built where people don't want to go? That's one thing. Secondly, I must say, Mr. Minister, that you must bring in an act, a solution, if someone is guilty or wrongly bringing in and asking for something, there must be an appropriate act that this man does not deserve, and then let him complain to another and seek his own justice. The ministry is often silent about certain demands of people. It's an obvious example, say, of those 60 and some pensioners from Montenegro. The ministry simply kept quiet and left them hanging for two years to live without any income.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27578	Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27579	That's just not true. It's not true we kept quiet about the pensioners from Montenegro. Since the first day that problem came up, I've had a very big engagement. It's about people who have won their pension in Montenegro's Army, some people who have never even served in Serbia and who wanted to move on as pensioners to our pension fund. It's about people who at a certain point when they could move to Serbia's Army decided to stay there because they had some prerogatives they didn't have in the Serbian Army. So it doesn't stand. As for the accident that happened, let me say, the whole former Yugoslavia, and for all those who had to move out, move out, and so on, I never said they were guilty. I'm sorry you have that impression. On the contrary, I think that they, people, are at least guilty of what happened to them, but the fact that it is inappropriate that if someone was in Serbia and got an apartment in Zajecar, they do not have the same opportunity you are defending here, which is to get an apartment in New Belgrade. It cannot be solved by 15,000 apartments in Belgrade and Novi Sad. It can't. The head of your party is the Serbian Deputy Prime Minister. The best thing to do is talk to him, give him a solution, and let's see how that can be solved. I'm convinced you'd know that, to advise on how to solve it, because, believe me, in these ten, fifteen or eighteen years, since they started coming here, it seems like no one's been smart enough to solve it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27580	The 32nd amendment was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27581	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam President, Honored Mr. Minister, Serbian citizens, in front of the New Serbia Parliamentary Group, I have tabled an amendment asking for the amendment of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Defence of the proposed member in this form, Article 32, to be deleted. The solution that stood in the existing law is far better because the content of the term "employee" is not the same and does not mean the same attitude towards work and obligations. We don't think this was necessary to change the law, because the deployment is a termological process, and employment is a permanent state. The deployment led you to some employment, so we felt that in the existing law this article was quite fine and that it was much clearer, more concrete, and the accuracy of a law in many ways determined its quality, so we asked that this article be deleted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27582	National MP Ljubisa Petkovic submitted to the 34th amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27583	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the SRS MP Group believes it is unnecessary to put in point 14 of its position that fines are provided for all persons who use the name, symbols and other features of the Serbian Army without the approval of the defence minister. Here the Proposer is calling for Article 33 of bet 3. I would like to point out that the SRS Parliamentary Group has submitted an amendment to Article 33(3). The law on defence, which reads: "The use of the name, symbols and other features of the Serbian Army is prohibited by legal persons, entrepreneurs and associations. ''In line with the proposed amendment to Article 33(3) submitted by the SRS Group, I believe that the authority mentioned in this position is too high and should be deleted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27584	The 35th amendment was submitted by MP Ljubisa Petkovic, who wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27585	Thank you. In Article 5(3), paragraph 3 is replaced by the following: The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Defence states: ''It is forbidden to highlight and bear the mark, symbols and other features of the position of the 1st member in a way that would violate the reputation of the Ministry of Defence. ''As you can see when it comes to the Ministry of Defence, the Minister has not allowed anyone to be empowered to use labels, symbols and other signs. Even in his own ministry, there is no authority. This can also be concluded in an act that provides for criminal provisions, in paragraph 5, which reads – if it stands out and bears a sign, symbols and other features of the Ministry of Defence in a way that violates the reputation of the ministry. And see what attitude 3 or point 6 says -- if, without the defence minister's approval, he uses the name, symbols and other features of the Serbian Army. I wonder – why there are double arches, so the minister in his own ministry does not allow anyone to bear the markings of the Ministry of Defence and allows the use of the marks of the Serbian Army. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27586	Since we have completed the examination of the Bill's proposal in particular, does the Proposer's representative want to make the final statement? No, I don't. ) I conclude the review of the Bill of Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Defence, in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 4th point of the agenda: – Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on the Military of Serbia (Serbs) You have received amendments submitted at the proposal of the Law by the People's MPs: Konstantin Arsenović, together Tomislav Nikolic, Jorgovanka Tabaković, Zoran Antic, Veroljub Arsić, Zoran Babić, Igor Bečić, Jelena Budimirović Božidar Delić, Stefan Zankov, Otto Kišmarton, Milan Knezevic, Saša Maksimović, Zoran Mašić, Predrag Mijatović, Ljiljana Miladinović, Mileta Poscurica, Gojko Radić, Mićo Rogović, Vučeta Tosović and Dragan Colić; Aleksandra Janković, Vlatko Ratković, Sasa Milak, Sadomir Jovanovic, Zoran Jovanović, Zoran Živić, Vešović and Ravić. You have received a report from the Legislative Committee, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. On the basis of Article 148(2), Rules of Procedure, the Legislative Committee, as incomplete, rejected the amendment of MP Sasa Dujovic, which was added by members of 45a and 45b after article 45b. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric, who wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27587	I suggested erasing Article 1, which reads: "The service in the Serbian Army is also considered to be the duty of civilians at the service in the Serbian Army to work in military units and in military institutions that do not carry out operations under the Ministry of Defence's jurisdiction, which are organised and functionally related to the Ministry of Defence. “ I believe that this member is completely excessive, that it is understood that civilians are at the service of military units at the same time at the service in the Serbian Army, as far as I know, at least officially, there is no other army in Serbia, except the Serbian Army. We know that the primary jurisdiction of the Ministry of Defense is the country's defence. The question arises, if this government solution remains – what are military units and institutions that do not carry out operations from the Ministry of Defence's jurisdiction and what are the jobs that these units and these institutions are carrying out? Practically, if this solution proposed by the government is consistently read, only one impression can be obtained, that this is the creation of some legal framework, the truth, the shy legal framework for the creation of another army in Serbia, by system – if we have two, three mobile phone operators, why don't we have two, three armies.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27588	A group of 20 MPs of the Progress Serbia Group submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Mr. Bozidar Delic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27589	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I know why this article was written, but somehow this is illogical. Perhaps it would be best if this attitude were not in the law. The ministry had to solve various military institutions, etc., because they had previously been on some income principle, they now put them on the budget. But if the person is assigned to a military unit or military facility, then it's logical that he has that status, it's possible. It just doesn't sound right to me. It says they are located in military units and military facilities. If they're in those units and in those facilities, it's logical that they have that status. Maybe it should have been written so it sounds a little bit more logical than this one right here. I am not satisfied with my amendment either, for it was the only “no. ” Then the question arises whether I'm writing something that's meant to be. But we made that amendment because it doesn't make sense to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27590	Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27591	Not all military institutions are on the budget. You have good information. We have brought the Technical and Remont Institute to the budget in Cacca and Batajnica "Moma Stanojlović", but we have military institutions from Morava, "Dedinja", "Karajordjeva", Technical and Remont Institute in Kragujevac, they are not yet on the budget and the problem is because of this existence. Otherwise, there are military institutions that are on the budget, as is the Technical Experience Centre, it's run as a military institution, but it's there by formation.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27592	Thank you. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Jankovic, who wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27593	I felt that the name of the law must be changed and it said, "The law on the use of the Serbian Army and other defence forces in peacekeeping missions to preserve peace with the UN mandate." I have repeatedly pointed out on the National Security Strategy that military neutrality is bound by the resolution of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the protection of sovereignty, territorial integrity and constitutional order of the Republic of Serbia, which was adopted at the 7th session of the Second Regular Session in 2007, held on 26 December. At that time, a final decision was made on the military neutrality of the Republic of Serbia in relation to all existing military alliances. The term "multinational operations" implies the introduction of Serbia into a military-political bloc, primarily NATO, where members of our military and other defence forces are destined to fight for the interests of certain states or regional organisations. For this reason, I felt that the term "multinational operations" was necessary to replace the term "Peace Mission", since there are operations to impose peace and peace-preservation operations. It is important to add that it is the participation of the Serbian Army in peace-preservation missions, because these operations are for imposing peace "the fight". So, as the Republic of Serbia has as a basic definition of national security policy, we heard from the minister, our commitment to respecting the obligations arising from the UN Charter is important to stress that it is the use of the Serbian Army and other defence forces in peacekeeping missions with the mandate of the UN. In addition, by consulting some military experts, I have come to the realization that peace operations are almost as usual multinational, until multinationals have to be peaceful. In that sense, I am still standing, and New Serbia, in the view that it must stand "The Law on the Use of Serbia Army and other defence forces in peace-preservation missions".
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27594	National MP Vlatko Ratkovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government has accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Jankovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27595	The explanation is identical to the explanation I gave before. I don't think there's enough clarification that could harm any law. Secondly, by consulting people who are general, people who have had experience, I've come to the realization that it's not exactly the same to talk about multinational operations that don't necessarily have to be humanitarian. Let's just remember our experience with NATO bombing. NATO's aggression against our country was led as an action of humanitarian character and it was called "Mercy Angel". As merciful as he was, we know this, we shouldn't talk again about all those objects that have been destroyed, about the lives that have been threatened, about the delayed victims of this bombing and that aggression. But what is indicative and what is practically the intention of the promoter of this entire set of military laws, I have already stated this by saying about the National Security Strategy, is that nowhere else is the term "NATO aggression" used, but is used by the term "bombing", "consequence of civil war", etc. So, it's not said that there's been a break-up of the SFRY, and it's violent, that NATO aggression has been committed, as if we really should now apologize to NATO's aggressor and the countries that bombed us for being victims! I don't think most Serbian citizens can support this attitude, and since the wounds and consequences of this aggression and so present, it would be a much more logical solution to at least change the term in this law. In addition, if the government's explanation implies that it is humanitarian and peace missions, then why is it not explicitly written?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27596	Mr. Secretary has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27597	Why are we talking about multinational operations when we're talking about operations abroad? It's just that there are rescue operations that can be multinational, but they're not peaceful. There are operations, say, ceasefires, where more nations participate, and yet this is not a peace operation. The essence of the whole law should, in fact, be seen in a member who decidently and clearly makes it clear how they are sent to participate in a multinational operation: unless Parliament approves – no one will be able to be sent, whatever the operation is. Regarding NATO bombings, i.e. NATO aggression, therefore, in the Resolution that we talked about, that is, Parliament talked about protecting integrity, some are talking about the resolution on Kosovo, some say the Resolution against NATO, there is said in point 6 – 'NATO bombing'. That resolution is binding for us, and we also use that expression in our documents. This is what Parliament has brought. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27598	National MP Aleksandra Jankovic. You want a replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27599	The resolution says NATO bombing. But, Mr. Shunatovac, what will be your contribution? Can you move a little further away from this "NATO bombing" and come to a conclusion that it was actually a "NATO aggression"? Come on, get in your business!
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27600	People's MPs, the right to replica means respect for the right to replica, so I ask you not to abuse the right that the chair has as discretionary, with the desire for discussion to be a good tone. The 4th amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Jankovic and joint MPs Cedomir Jovanovic, Zoran Ostojic, Vesna Pesic, Nebojsa Rangelovic and Kenan Hajdarevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Vesna Pesic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27601	I'd like to ask Mr. Minister to really explain to us why this article 4 was inserted into this law? The explanation given is quite unmistakable, and our proposal, the Liberal Democratic Party, is to delete Article 4. I have to read it and point out why he's very dangerous. It is said that "A professional member of the Serbian Army is not allowed to participate in the activities of the association which achieve the following objectives: the reform of the defence system and the Serbian Army, the harmonisation of rules with the widely accepted standards and regulations of the European Union, the construction of a defence strategy and the doctrine of the Serbian Army, which determines the composition, organisation and formation of the Serbian Army" and so on. Article 4 prohibits any contact between professional members of the military and civil society organisations, which deal directly or indirectly with defence and security issues, and such organisations in our Republic have about 40. This figure is even bigger, if we add to it associations dealing with European integration, given that they are also on this black list. In our party, we wondered whether professional soldiers were allowed only to sit in the meetings of pigeons or associations of fishermen, since it is commendable that this number of associations of citizens, therefore, of the civil sector, deal with these key issues that are listed here and that professional soldiers should not participate in such discussions, or even publish texts in scientific journals and professional publications that these associations organise. Finally, like this... (President: Two minutes, you can proceed if you want. Here you go. ... I'm gonna use the MEP's minutes. Thank you. Finally, any possible co-operation between civil society organisations and the military, which forms an integral part of modern democratic and civil-military relations, would be disabled at the beginning. I would point to two moments why we believe this member should be deleted. First, his legal justification. This member is not primarily founded in the Constitution, because the Constitution does not say that it restricts professional soldiers to participate in discussions of this kind, because there is a special member where their political organisation is banned, which is in line with what we have all accepted, with the depolitisation of the Army, meaning that they are not members, members, political organisations. But, indeed, nowhere does it appear that they cannot participate in the civil sector in civil society and in such discussions. I think it's very bad, because it's being reduced, and the Constitution provides for that, both civil and democratic control of the military's work, and this law completely breaks the relationship between society and military organisation. We really don't see why that would happen, because we have a paradox, I say, that military personnel can become members of a foreign professional association, Article 50. The Military Act, but they are therefore forbidden any participation in the activities of domestic associations. On this occasion, I would like to remind myself that during the 1990s, citizens' associations and the civil sector were indicated to be some foreign organisations, or some internal enemies. I ask the question – is now that after 2000, citizens' associations are put back on some blacklist, that state organisations, when it comes primarily to military organisation, have no communication between civil associations and military organisations again. In addition, I must say that we participated when it came to the Strategy, Mr Ostojić, as far as I know, participated in such discussions. I don't know, how is it now that military professionals are forbidden to communicate with these very serious associations that exist today, where really are very respected experts? I would also like to say that this breakup has a big political dimension, because it places us in countries that don't want to communicate with civil society, that it abolishs democratic control over the military, and that we all know that it's calculated by and those who asked me to speak on their behalf, so these associations of citizens who primarily deal with security and these issues have given statistics that democratic societies that control and that have co-operation between civil and military sectarians are much more successful in military actions than they are in alienating themselves. Finally, indeed, modern military sociology suggests that any alienation of the professional army from wider social values and societies could not really have success even in its narrow military divisions, nor does our constitution allow this kind of thing, but is just recommending military control. And again, the question arises – are government organisations an internal enemy or a normal associate and military organisation and your ministry? Mr. Minister, please insert this member back.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27602	Mr. Dragan Sutanovac has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27603	First, to clarify, it is not true that members of the Serbian Army are banned from membership in the NGO sector. No, it says "not allowed to participate in the activities of the association which achieve the following objectives:" let's say, "arms and military equipment equipment equipment; commanding and handling Serbia's military and defence system management. Imagine this NGO now discussing arms and military equipment, and our officer is present and still taking part in this debate. Then, he says, "Operative and functional ability, use and completion of Serbia's military. ''Now I'm going to ask you, since Mr. Ostojić, who knows this matter, is a member of the Atlantic Union, I think still, is it allowed in one of these Atlantic countries to have a professional member of an army talk to someone about the functional and operational capacity of the same, and private? He goes as a private person, whether he's an officer or not, he's a member of an NGO as a private person. So the state needs to be protected, because that, if anything, comes into conflict of interest, that based on what it professionally gets as knowledge, it later charges through some NGO by providing information. If you knew one more thing, a military call is not an invitation as another government official, a call to the police or to the BIA. It's just that these people have a special triage. Unfortunately, it is true that they cannot participate in these public debates on these issues. On the other hand, believe me, the Army has not been more transparent and open, I can say, for decades. We participate in all round tables, we even have presentations by the Serbian Army. You saw the other day that we participated in the county table concerning the Law on the Military Security Agency and the Military Intelligence Agency, to attend the Assembly of High Officers of the Serbian Army. So there's absolute transparency on every basis, except for what's forbidden everywhere, and when I say everywhere, it means where I know you'd like to see our society and our country. And there can't be, because there are codes of conduct in which that kind of public communication, through the NGO sector, can't be. He's got no evil intentions. I'm just curious as to how you thought there was no democratic control if we forbid an officer to talk to you about arms and military equipment. So it's not a matter of democratic control. Democratic control is something quite different. I'm glad you asked me a question and what I said. I think you're satisfied with the answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27604	Right on line, MP Vesna Pesic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27605	Mr. Minister, I haven't read this whole article. I thought it could be precise here and that you could meet, I think Mrs. Jankovic, too, asked to delete this member, because it stands here – a reform of the defence system. So he's taking part in the debate. That's what we did, we participated. That's what this is about. There are some concrete things where it may not be necessary, but it should be a military secret. But a reform of the Serbian Army's defence system, harmonising regulations with widely accepted standards and regulations in the EU. So you've made this too wide! As a result, there was a disturbance in the civil sector, and they asked me to tell you this because there was an open debate on reforms and police and military, which would be allowed. Please, if you could at least rephrase this article.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27606	The word is made by Minister Dragan Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27607	Private involvement in these discussions is not allowed! Each of these discussions shall be attended by a delegation from the Ministry of Defence. Can't someone who works at work do the same thing privately to conduct in some NGO sector, because it's an absolute conflict of interest! By the way, there's a very precise number here for what.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27608	National MP Aleksandra Jankovic has been registered as the applicant for the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27609	The very fact that representatives of such remote political options, such as LDP and New Serbia, submit the same amendment, to some minister who is a little better than you, would be a sign that he should be adopted. So, I have reactions from the professional sector, because I get the impression that the bill's proposed intention was to exclude professional military personnel from all forms of creative work in order to confirm, so-called, civilian control. In the Serbian Army, however, a large number of officers and generals carry the calling of magistrates and doctors of science, and their exclusion from the creative process would be wrong, as soon as anyone in civilization has knowledge and experience that can be passed on to the problems of the Serbian Army. And your clarification, Mr. Secretary of Defense, still does not contribute to the resolution of this Article 4, and I suggest you consider erasing that member.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27610	The word is by MP Zoran Ostojic, using the time of the parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27611	Mr. Minister, nowhere in this article's formulation can it be concluded that this is a private engagement. On the other hand, this military law does not regulate matters of military secrecy. Professional members of the Army and the military secrets they come to in their business are regulated by other laws. So this is about participation in activities, for example, organisations, associations of citizens in military reform. Of course, what it means is that a violation of labour discipline is subject to some kind of sanctions within the military and no one in private can go and talk about weapons, if it's a military secret. He will comply with other regulations and with his elders, ultimately, and by law. It's been formulated here so that it's legally forbidden for a professional member to participate in the activities of an NGO engaged in the military and has the right to deal with the military, I assume nothing is disputed. So one is a military secret, the other is a subordination in the military. You can always not let a member come. Don't tell us now this is private. There are disciplinary rules in the military, there's subordination. No one in the army can do anything on their own. There's a law of secrets, of confidentiality. In this law, a member like this is really squirming. You've now listed it extremely broadly and you're referring to what's a military secret. Certainly, other laws punish someone to go and participate in such activities, after all, it is not in the current current Law on the Army, where it says well that a professional member cannot be a member of a political party and has no right to strike. Now (under this proposal) it cannot even participate in the activities of the NGO sector, which deals with, say, military reform or the National Security Strategy. They will always receive a call through the army, you will allow them, or you will not allow them. Of course you won't let them go there if there's a discussion about something that's military secret and give away military secrets, break the law. So, in this sense, it's formulated extremely restrictive and we think that other regulations regulate this matter. We don't think there's room for this ban to exist in this law. That's it, that's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27612	Another MP, Tomislav Nikolic, has been reported in the electronic system, is now no longer. Does anyone else want to talk about the details and the amendment to Article 4? No, I don't. ) Members of Parliament Dragan Šormaz, Miroslav Petkovic, Milos Aligrudic, Jovan Palalic and Zoran Nikolic together submitted the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Miroslav Petkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27613	Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, let's get to the previous discussion. The DSS parliamentary group also noted the possibility of amending the proposed 14a member, which predicts that participation in the activities of the association of members of the Serbian Army is not allowed. That is why I think that we have found the right measure and have proposed our amendment that a professional member of the Serbian Army, the defence minister, can approve participation in the activities of the association. It is the defence minister's decision, in this case, Mr Sutanovac, if he estimates that a professional member of the Serbian Army can contribute, when discussing some strategic and very important documents with his participation. I remind you that many professional members of the Serbian Army have different skills, education, which can adequately meet the challenges discussed in certain associations, so that their participation can certainly help to make some document more quality, to be better. We found in this law in Article 18 the possibility that the minister gives consent, approval, to a professional member of the Serbian Army for participation in some regional initiatives, in multinational operations, etc., so that I think this is an elegant way to allow, if you accept the DSS amendment, those professional people who can contribute, to take part in the work of these associations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27614	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Dusan Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27615	I suggested erasing Article 5 for the same reasons I suggested that Article 1 be deleted. If the solution proposed by the Government, Article 18, whose change is being made, point 2) will read this: "The defence minister brings formations and systems of command, units and institutions of the Serbian Army and military units and military institutions that are organised and functionally linked to the Ministry of Defence." I suggest erasing this supplement – 'and military units and military institutions that are organisationally and functionally related to the Ministry of Defence', because there is a real impression, one conclusion is that there are military units and institutions in Serbia that are related to the Ministry of Defence and that there are some other institutions that are only related to the Army of Serbia and are not related to the Ministry of Defence. Under the Constitution of Serbia, there is a single defence system. Now it's interesting to hear this argument given by the government. I'm going to read the explanation for the reason that I really don't think even language experts, linguists, would not understand what the writer was going to say. "The amendment is not accepted for the reason why the proposed solution complements the defence minister's authority to propose the President of the Republic of Serbia's deployment, promotion, resolution and termination of the service of the generals or elders on duty, for which the act of the generals deployed outside the Serbian Army in the ministry has been established, as well as the appointments, promotions, resolutions and termination of the service of professional soldiers, professional military personnel of the Serbian Army in formation posts outside the Serbian Army in the Ministry." I'm really in the position that this is not possible to understand. I have drawn only one conclusion that in the future we will have two kinds of generals – one that will serve in the military, these are large generals and others, those cabinet generals, who will serve as decorations, at the moment Boris Tadic and the ruling regime. Practically, they will build their military careers on a political path and will have no touching links, touching points with Serbia's Army.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27616	Anyone else want a word? If not, Parliamentarian Aleksandra Jankovic has submitted to Article 5 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter by Aleksandra Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27617	I agree with my colleague Maric. Practically, this amendment adds up to what he said. Namely, the idea of the amendment is to take Article 5(2) into account. 5) and 6) after the word "general staff" deletes the further text. Why? The bill envisions that the defence minister not only brings about formations and systems of command, units and institutions of the Serbian Army, but does so for all military units and military institutions that are functionally linked to the defence ministry. According to this proposal for any promotion, dismissal or termination of the service of generals or elders on duty, for which the rank of generals, other than the opinion of the Chief of Staff, is established, the opinion of the authorised head of defence at the Ministry of Defence for professional military personnel has been allocated outside the Serbian Army. There is a legitimate question of the expertise of any civilian to carry out such a wide range of military affairs, as well as the issue of policy impact on human resources. Furthermore, the expertise of the mandated head of the Ministry of Defence, whichever it is, cannot be equated with the expertise of the Chiefs of Staff, which appears to be the provisions of this article. So, I suggest you delete him.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27618	Anyone else want a word? If not, MP Srboljub Zivanovic has submitted to the 6th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Jankovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter by Aleksandra Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27619	It can't be erased, the whole law, but then at least some controversial members can. So the amendment is to delete article 7. The explanation, again: "This bill provides for the defence minister not only to bring about formations and systematicisation of commands and units of the Serbian Army, but also for all military units and military institutions that are functionally linked to the defence ministry. ''Of course, it prescribes and calls in the Serbian Army. The minister's defined powers cannot in any way be seen as a precision of his powers, but rather as an unwarranted extension of powers, to which the defence minister, apart from his basic duty, civil control of the military, is given powers which primarily refer to Serbia's military personnel and structural policy.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27620	Anyone else want a word? If not, Parliamentarian Konstantin Arsenovic submitted to Article 8 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Dusan Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27621	Ladies and gentlemen, the bill provides that a 30-year-old person cannot be admitted to the professional service of the Serbian Army. I find that unacceptable, and I suggest that this age line be moved to 40 years. As you know, the sole purpose of professional soldiers is to deter enemies from aggression against Serbia and to participate in the defence of the country if aggression occurs. Serbia's interest, the Serbian Army's interest should be to have as much as possible in the military as possible, as qualified soldiers. If this solution proposed by the government remains, what I was talking about a few days ago in the debate in principle will happen, that the practically most widely-trained military bonds Serbia currently has, and these are soldiers who fought in Republika Srpska, Republika Srpska and KIM, who were then 18, 19, 20 or 22 years old, and were at the beginning of the journey, and are now at the best of their lives, will not be able to be professional members of the Serbian Army. Speaking Wednesday, Minister Sutanovac said that this was not true and that all Serbian citizens of the age of 45 could be admitted to the professional service. Again, I quote this proposal, which reads: ''6', that it is not more than 30 years old, if it is accepted as a professional soldier'. In an explanation for which my amendment refuses, the government says: “Amendment is not accepted for the reason it is a person who has the property of a professional soldier, who has the least basic education in terms of the law. “ I think it is not whether a professional soldier has primary, secondary, or higher education, but whether that professional soldier is qualified, is able to carry out his legal and constitutional obligations. For that reason, I really think this amendment should be accepted. There is no, absolutely none, evidence that persons under 30, who are admitted to the Serbian Army's professional service, will do their jobs better and more responsibly than those who, for example, are 32 or 39, who meet all other preconditions to be professional soldiers. Many of them have a war experience, but they can't do it for a reason because they're over 30 years old.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27622	It's been used 40 seconds since the mission group's time. Anyone else want a word? If not, the 9th Amendment was filed by Aleksandra Jankovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter by Aleksandra Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27623	According to this bill, Article 9 reads: “In Article 40, paragraph 2, the term ‘Student’ is replaced by the word ‘Kadat’, and the word ‘Moves’ is replaced by the word ‘Produces’. I asked for article 9 to be deleted, and in an explanation of why the government does not accept this amendment is said something that is really not clear to me as a blonde, which is, that the amendment is not accepted for the reasons that the first time the status of officers after the completion of the military academy, which previously does not have an officer's rank, which means that they must first be produced as an officer, only then can they be promoted to the first initial officer's act. In terms of the term 'cadet', it points to the reasoning of amendments under regular number 2, which is even more fun because it says that this term is used to bring our law into line with the concepts used in foreign-country military schools. So now we're in sync with West Point. You can tell me that the term 'cadet' exists in the Russian army, but it's much more typical actually for Western military school to use this very term 'cadet'. Since 1837, Mr. Defence Minister, when the Military Academy began its work, with minor or larger interruptions due to wars, historical and political circumstances, the name "pitomac" was used for a person who attended the Military Academy. In addition to this title, which was established in the Serbian military tradition, the 2007 Army Act uses the term "student". The new Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Serbian Military Act "Student" deletes and introduces the term "cadet". Of course, this term is a feature of the tradition of Western countries, specifically, loved by you, the United States, where it has been used since the very establishment of the 16th of March 1802, one of the most prestigious military academys in the West Point world. I just think it is not all right to introduce other people's treminology if there is already an appropriate Serbian word for the same concept, which is a feature of the Serbian military tradition. Furthermore, instead of "adjusted", this article is replaced by "products". What does that really mean? That Serbia will no longer promote the students of the Military Academy who have completed their training in the act of supporters, but, say, produce them as goods. Even on that quoted and favorite American West Point, you use the term 'commission', which can be translated as 'issue an officer' and 'graduation', which means graduate. I must admit that such formulations are really fueled by the fear that in the future, Serbian officers will be produced and used as expendable goods in various world wars, such as Afghanistan or Iraq, so-called World War II. multinational operations.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27624	One minute and 15 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group were used. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 11th amendment was submitted by a group of 20 MPs of the Prosperity Group of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27625	I'd just like to warn you about the breach of the Rules of Procedure, so please don't include that time in my discussion time. For you, we are not a group of 20 MPs, and there is no possibility in the Rules of Procedure that a group of Members of Parliament may submit an amendment. Each MP submits an amendment for himself and I listen very carefully to you reading the names of other MPs from other MPs, and you baptize us with a group of MPs. So, every one of us has a last name, every one of us is an applicant of the amendments, according to the Constitution, because it follows the fate of the bill, so I ask you to read those names in the future, it won't be hateful for you, and if you can't read someone else, but that the services are so humiliating and that, the MPs, call us a group, I won't really let you; or you'll introduce to the Rules of Procedure a group of MPs, so we'll all be a group, and then we'll be MPs, and then we'll be a group, and only we'll be a group and the rest of us to be MPs by name, it really doesn't make sense, no matter how much your president can't sleep because of our existence.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27626	National MP, the time you yourself have chosen as a time where you explain that there has been a breach of the Rules of Procedure is an abuse of the right of Article 100, since, under one, Article 143 also mentions the name of a "group of MPs" when defining in which cases the amendment is considered to be identical and, under two, none of the members of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly defines and does not prescribe in which way the scenario which the chairman reads will be written. The question of practice is that some of what is written in the script is deleted, something is being written, and there would be no harm in just reading that an amendment has been submitted and that the applicants of the amendment are looking for a word. So, I would ask you to carefully read the Rules of Procedure, not to abuse the right that has been given to us, to say the infringements of the Rules of Procedure and to learn the difference between the procedures and the text of the scenarios, which is read as a practice, and not as a Rules of Procedure, a prescribed thing. The amendments you have submitted, you have submitted as a group of MPs and as such has been entered into the script and any such amendment signed by a group of 20, out of the twenty-nation MPs, will be read in the script, and those who chair have the obligation to know who did not sign the amendment, because they have no right to receive a word, and everyone else has. Now you can use a time of two minutes as an applicant for the amendment or time of your parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27627	I wish you'd told me what number you read to the applicants by name, and from which number they are for you group, because here in the explanations you write for some parliamentary group of names of all the members of the group who submitted the amendments, and for you we're just a group. I don't want to go back, you're using your time to teach MPs here that you can't convince into anything else. I'm interested in something else.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27628	People's MP, I warn you of Article 104 and remind you that this obliges you to treat all MPs politely, as well as those who chair. I do not hold any instruction but, under the obligation of respect of Rule 27, I remind you that careful reading of the Rules of Procedure saves me time, and it is time for you to abuse the right to highlight the violation of the Rules of Procedure, which does not exist, so I would like to remind you of Article 104 on mutual respect and polite treatment. This time I've used to warn you that there is a member you won't be counted on as the time you have available for two minutes as one of the groups and the applicant for the amendment. Go on.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27629	Is your political party in such a bad relationship with us that I insult you when I say you're teaching me? And where did you find anything offensive or offensive? At the same time, you're telling me that I should read the Rules of Procedure and not be offended. Please let me talk about the Army Act without discussing it with you, no one has come to terms with you yet.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27630	And he probably won't. (Tomislav Nikolic, from the place: I know he won't, but that says...) It doesn't talk about us... ) I ask you MPs to use your time to explain the amendments, and it is my duty to remind every MP of it, because it is happening to everyone to distract us from our minds, to the members of the Rules of Procedure that we are all obliged to respect, so that this time will not be included either. (Tomislav Nikolic, from the place: Mrs. Komic, when one man is strange for the other 249, it is not the problem in those 249, but in that one man! I'm sorry, I didn't know you weren't finished. ( ) I have the only right and anyone when he chaires the National Assembly has the right to interrupt the MP and remind him of the obligations of respect for the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27631	So, I repeat, if you're weird for us 249, it's not our problem, it's more like it's in you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27632	People's MP, no one has any problem if we strictly respect the rules of the Rules of Procedure and we all try to keep the debate in the National Assembly running by the rules. None of the time we've spent on my obligation to remind you, and your right to fight for strict application of the Rules of Procedure, will be counted as time at your disposal. Please continue to explain the amendment to Article 11.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27633	If you were a man, I'd think your wife wouldn't let you speak a single word at home, and like this, I think you're a lady and your husband certainly allows you to discuss it with him. Please let me talk about the Army Act, and now, let's say, don't say anything. Could you do that? Thank you. I see the Department of Defense is learning from the mistakes committed by those who led the military and the Ministry before the DOS came to power. Imagine that someone said at a time when you were in opposition – it is forbidden for members of the military to participate in the debates, and they have collaborated with you in how the government will be established, where which unit will be, how it will behave, where it will proceed, who will reject the order, who will break the system of connections, the system of communication. I do not pity those officers who are now commanded by illiterate politicians for the military and for the defence, starting here by Goran Vesic, who kicked them out of the defence ministry with his ass. That goes on and on and on. They allow themselves, they don't keep the dignity of their service. Now you're going to tell me -- that under these conditions, members of the Serbian Army can be educated in other military academys, where we discuss both our army and our composition, and our defence system. Now you're going to tell me that it's perfectly normal for you to go to Austria for seminars and training, where we're discussing our military and defense systems, that it's perfectly normal for some organization to prescribe how many bullets to bury in the Adriatic Sea, at a time when we had an exit to the sea, before you came to power. So, like God, not like the ox, you would say. And what is so wrong with you if a high-ranking officer participates in the debate - about everything, about the participation of our forces in multinational forces? What's your problem while he's taking part in the debate, if he's following all the orders? Do you mind if someone thinks otherwise now? Where is your Atlantic alliance now? That's where you were all happy to see a guest. What were they discussing, rather than the Yugoslav Army, so Serbia-Montenegro came to Serbia's army? So it's such a humiliation to members of the Army, the prominent experts, who in these organisations could even defend the attitudes of the Serbian Army on certain issues that organisations are dealing with -- to forbid them to appear there at all. No, you will go, Mr. Minister, you who know everything about the Army. You who tell us that this army is now completely different. If you stay in that place too long, there will be so many members of the army left to attend a session of the National Assembly. You'll be looking for them in the barracks. Is there another high-ranking officer to come here without him knowing anything? You shouldn't have proposed this law to us if you were guarding the army. And you need one last time, Mr. Minister, and three months ago you were clear, now you're confused, to tell us – are you preparing an army for NATO or not? Is it your goal, as a man, for Serbia to be in NATO or not, or for you to say what your goal is? Is the wish of officers next to you, who are wise to sit and remain silent now, and come to defend the Defence Act, of course they can't speak a word, and I don't know why you brought them at all, to have Serbia be in NATO, is it their desire to have Serbia militaryly neutral, is it their desire for Serbia to co-operate with the common defence of the Russian Federation?- I'm sorry. I can only hear you, Mr. Minister, and I don't know what the Army thinks? You're the Secretary of Defense. Today you are the Minister of Defence, and tomorrow the Prime Minister, the day after tomorrow, the Minister of Telecommunications, does so to you. So you're in this term, you're in charge of the army. And I think that Serbia should have an army for all mandates and that it does not depend on the minister what will happen to the military, that it does not depend on the minister's position whether we are going to be in NATO or not. When we here, 250, declare that Serbia will not be in NATO – you must not say that you would like it to be! You can, but as a farmer, as a good engineer, not as a minister of defense, because it pulls back, Mr. Minister. And who can teach you that, when you're the smartest, biggest and most beautiful, even in the DS, and don't hesitate to say that? I'd lower my nose a little, take good advice, talk to experienced people. I'd call not only the Pride to be reactivated, so it seems to me against you that it's done, against your will, but I'd invite other generals. If I were to make some law on the Army and the Defense, I'd invite at least those who fought. How many more of them are there in the Army? How come those who participated in the war at 50 are automatically retired, and those who love NATO can be activated when they retire, in other ministries, but at the top and at the top of the state? What will the Army think of you? What do the officers, whose lives depend on acts, think of the Serbian Army, or what should they do to get as high as possible – to gain as much knowledge or to be more willing to you? I'd say the Army is turning to be at will of the government, so-called civilian control, in fact, civil command of the military. You're not a man who controls the military, nor are we. You don't even send your members to committee meetings. Dear Shutanovac, from my place? So, you're really not president of the DS yet, I mean DS, but okay, if you decide in the DS, then I'm talking to you directly. So, you're the civilian commander of the Army of Serbia, which is a terrible matter to me, because neither you nor I understand. I believe that what the Army does should be left to the military, and we certainly do not approve or approve of it, and that the military is grinding its teeth with what is being written here, and that, like, participates and that all MPs here raise their hands to vote on the Law of the Army, the Law of Defence, for amendments to the laws that have already been passed, to get rid of the use of our forces in peace operations and the Assembly and the UN, that this is how it goes, that the caravans pass, and the dogs to bark... It bothers me. It seems to me that Serbia is left without a strong, solid, good pillar for its defence, not to attack someone, not to attack someone, but to defend itself. Even, he can no longer defend himself against the great one she cared about in the 1990s, at the time you were against defending yourself. So now she's not that powerful and she doesn't need it anymore, and we're not going to provoke any war with the big ones, but there are those who want us, who want to fight on our territory against us, and here we also need an army. I don't see you training the Army for that. You train this army to be in NATO someday. I want to say it now, I'm an older man and let it be remembered! Mr. Minister, your party is preparing our army to be in NATO one day! As everything is happening in this Serbia now, you may someday convince the citizens that we should be there. I'm telling you that we shouldn't be there, that our children shouldn't be there, that we shouldn't be in any military alliance, and that this military neutrality can only bring us...!- I'm sorry. And that would be all along with all the amendments that we have submitted as a group of MPs, as you have called us here, and who have been rejected because of the fact that anyone who reads amendments is not seriously considering this law. For you, the law is the Bible. When you seem to have a good amendment, you give it to your MP immediately. There he is, sitting there, writing a bunch of amendments that have been accepted, so that you will not accept the opposition's amendment – he will save your paws from your head! [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27634	Five minutes and 15 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. The word is made by Minister Dragan Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27635	Unfortunately, being older isn't about wisdom. It doesn't mean that if you're old enough, you're wise enough to give us a lecture here. If you start your speech by "that illiterate politicians," you here, who are a student in your 60s, that you are not ashamed. You promised us publicly in the Serbian Parliament that you would graduate from college.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27636	Minister, I beg you. Let me remind you that members of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly apply to all participants in the session. Therefore, Article 4 implies the obligation to treat one another politely. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27637	Of course, I ask you, if an apostle turns to me and to the people who sit with me, that we are illiterate, I expect you to act. If you don't react, I'm not afraid of these. There's no problem. The fact that you're the Duke, to me as Minister...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27638	Minister, no one here is afraid of anyone, nor can they be intimidated, so I ask you to bring the debate down within the framework of the Rules of Procedure's respect.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27639	So please, on NATO, since you're asking me to tell you something. Nothing differs from the attitude Mr. Vukic made recently in Washington, in a visit he was in seven days ago. What a problem you have in your party and what's going on there for you, I can't tell you. [[Laughter in the O.R.]] I never said I knew everything about defense, nor do I think there's a man who knows everything about defense. I'm the first, let's say, modern, the side is the word, but acceptable – the manager of the defense system, but I chose associates who know "many" more than you. More than my state secretaries, the secretaries present here, are all reserve officers of the Serbian Army, not the Duke. The fact is, but reserve officers are highly educated professionals who help to shape this law, and the holders of this law are just members of the Serbian Army. To speak of the Serbian Army today, not to respect the situation that you left behind in 2000, is at least hypocritical. All the problems we've mentioned here today, from unresolved housing issues to homeless problems, etc., to the problem of wounding and not paying off someone to whom it belonged, we've been given thanks to you being in power. And today, when the Serbian Army, finally the Serbian Army, proudly carries four "s" on its sleeve, in your time wearing something else, you're telling us to bring down the Army of Serbia. I will tell you that this is not a majority view not only in Parliament, it is not a majority view either among citizens in Serbia. Serbia's military is one of the few institutions that has increased trust over the past year. And that dramatic trust in the past. Serbia's army dramatically, when you jump by 7% positive and you cut the negative by 7%, it's really something that's dramatic, dramatic in terms of commitment. The fact is, you wanted to admit it or not, that the defense system works much better than before. In these two and a half years as much as you've been trying to make trouble, first of all, about you personally and your financials, these problems really don't exist. We don't have emergency events that aren't explained, we don't have anything that happened that wasn't brought to the public and transparently explained why it happened. We have a slight increase in military personnel, on the one hand, we have an increase in those who apply for military service in uniform, we have a multiple drop that is released from the military, from almost 15% to three percent. - I apologize to the public if he doesn't understand the whole discussion, but I'm talking to, first of all, the duke, who I know he understands. So we have an increase in the number of those who serve in uniform compared to those who serve in civil society. We have a scene that is absolutely counterproportional to what you were doing at the time when you were running the system not only defenses, I can tell you, the whole state. It is absolutely incorrect that you were a minority in the government of Slobodan Milosevic. You had the same number of ministerial posts as the other part of the coalition that concerned the SPS and, if I'm not mistaken, JUL at the time. As SRS, you had the largest number of ministers in the government, and you were one of the most important factors in the government. For the sake of truth, in the past two years, and especially in the past year, we have encountered problems that were inherited decades ago. In the problems we're trying to solve, we haven't accused anyone, if you've paid attention. I've never told any of you that you're guilty of this or that, and I can't be guilty of a time that I haven't been in a position to run and save what can be saved. We are trying to achieve a consensus within those forces that want to see Serbia with one strong, modern, strong army, with an army that knows what to do, with an army that does not participate and does not interfere in political life. It is incorrect to prohibit members of the Serbian Army from participating in the work of any non-governmental sector in an organised manner if the topics which we consider to be adequate for us, such as it is absolutely incorrect that we should allow troops, as you said, to do subversive activities with any political party, agreeing on where there will be any units and how they will be blocked and what they will do. I'm sorry I haven't heard what your amendment is, and I haven't heard the explanation of the amendment, but I'm not sorry I had a chance to answer you, given that we rarely have the opportunity to talk publicly. And I think your comments, which are negative and personally motivated, deserve to have a chance to give you an answer. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27640	National MP Tomislav Nikolic, right on line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27641	There's no reason for me to speak to you personally. We've never had a fight in our lives. I don't know where you got it. There's a Latin proverb, it says, "and on the hill when it comes up, it's small." And so to you, those two meters, obviously they didn't bring anything, obviously, Mr. Minister. What's the matter with you that I'm afraid of or you're afraid of me? What kind of society would someone be afraid of, or that I'm afraid to tell you what I think of you or what you think of me? - I'm not speaking indiscriminately of you. I don't speak underestimatingly of you as a minister. If I were a minister, I wouldn't give any MP such words as you tell the MPs. I'd be a minister! I wouldn't be a vagabundo in Parliament, I'd be a minister. The minister sees Serbia, not the MP. That tie doesn't just serve to bind in the morning, it's a sign of honor. So, I don't give you any bad ones. Well, yes, you have support now, now you have good support, ministers, and applause on that side. No, obviously I'll have to fight on more fronts, and I'll make it, I guarantee it. So I don't think anything bad or evil about you. I'm just fully aware of everything you do and what you're so skillfully hiding. You're saying that your attitude towards NATO is identical to that of the person who brought the Wolf, so you're against NATO. Great! Just say it. He said openly, come on, say it yourself, or maybe you were listening to some conversation that nobody knows anything about just you. Let's hear it, too. Where you read it or saw it on TV or heard Alexander Vukic's radio statement. Everything else you'd mention here is a sign that you've been listening to someone. Let me also forgive you, just tell me when it is, and I wish I knew. So, the SNS stance that will bring you each of the 150 thousand members is that Serbia will never be in NATO. If that's your attitude - come on, now agree with me. If you disagree with me now, it means that you would want to see Serbia in NATO, then you are not in favour of the post of defence minister. And then those people around you who can't tell you that aren't for those places where they are now, because they're leading a policy against the decisions of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which has decided that you can't do it, which has made the decision that we're military neutral. So, for you, nothing means this decision of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. That's all that hurts me, because your party voted for that decision, too. When cameras are on, when the public of Serbia expects to know what to say, when it comes to gas from Russia or such an agreement, we are militaryly neutral. When we leave the Assembly and go to the ministries, we work with NATO, who asks what the Assembly is. Well, then don't talk to me about civilian control of the Serbian Army because it doesn't exist. Don't brag about the coat of arms... (President: Three minutes...) I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27642	The time at your disposal for replicas has been used. Anyone else want a word to discuss the amendment to Article 11? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Radisa Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27643	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 15, which says Article 15 in the new Article 53a deletes the words "in terms of the legality of the application of police powers". The one who wrote this bill, including this member, seemed to be trying to bring into it words that really don't matter. In this Article 15, it is best seen where it is stressed that the internal control of the work of the Military Police is carried out by a special organisational unit, and that is to say with regard to the legality of the use of police powers. The Serbian Radical Party is erasing these words. It is in itself understood that it is the police's authority, if it is the military police's activity. This is not about environmentalists, veterinarians, or agronomists to deal with their powers, and that it should now be particularly stressed. The logic itself says that a unit organised within the military to control the military police is beyond the task of controlling whether the military police are used in accordance with the law and internal military regulations and rules of conduct. It's all beautifully imagined, who's going to control who and how, I'm just afraid that for several years now, someone on the side and controls and dictates the work of both the Military Intelligence Agency and the Military Police. We are probably left here in Serbia with some levels of control to deal with minor irregularities and such. What do we even control when Serbia is crawling with foreign agents and intelligence, who are walking more freely than in their own country? Of course, it's nice when all this is written in law, beautiful, picturesque, but the reality in Serbia is quite the opposite. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27644	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Dusan Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27645	The text on which I tabled the amendment reads: "The military police are obliged to allow the military inspector to exercise control and provide him with the necessary professional assistance. ''I have proposed by my amendment to delete this word "professionally" for reasons which I suppose, unless strictly provided by law, will not provide him with unprofessional assistance. Every unit knows the rules of conduct, exactly who does what, so if a senior elder comes to a unit, in this case a military inspector, I assume that the officer of that military police unit will try to give him all the help he can, to make those faces available, those soldiers, those officers who will provide him with the most required formations. That's how it's been so far. I don't know if anything has changed in the Serbian Army, maybe you have some new knowledge, maybe you know how much you've ruined the Serbian Army since 2000, maybe you don't think there's any idea who's drinking or who's paying for it, so you assume it's necessary by law to prescribe a lower command in which way he has to carry out the orders of senior command authorities. I need to look back at another one of your findings. You said with one MP: "There are 500,000 war veterans in Serbia. They are not treated by the Ministry of Defence, but by another ministry." I draw attention to the fact that it's not plant species, it's not about flowers, it's not about weeds so it's about treating them, it's about living people, it's about honest people who, in the most honorable way, owe their country their debt, and they don't need to be treated, they need to be taken care of. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27646	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27647	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is simply amazing not to accept an amendment that is ultimately defined by a member and does not allow indeterminateness, improvisation and volunteerism in the application of that law. In my best interest to help at least one member of this law be valid, I have proposed that in Article 15, i.e. in the new Article 53b, Article 4, paragraph 4, the words "or the person who has authority" be deleted, for a simple reason. What exactly is this about? Here in Article 15, it is said, i.e. Article 53b - documentation with the designation of confidentiality of a military inspector, or a person who can be examined by him, etc. Given that it is not defined which persons can be a military inspector, so that the list is narrowed down to those who, in any case, will be the ones who will keep the secret in the documents that the military police have and which military inspector controls, I have suggested that this section be deleted "and other persons who are the military inspector of power". The reason is very simple. Who's gonna be the one who's gonna be authorized by the military inspector? Do you allow such a legal solution to allow the military inspector to empower whoever he wants from eight million Serbs? Right, because you haven't defined who those persons are, can they empower anyone who's in the Serbian Army, can they empower anyone who has nothing to do with the Serbian Army? That's why I submitted the amendment, and I thought that at least this member would be cleared and that at least this member would be able to apply. As you can see, this amendment is rejected, with an explanation: ''Amendment is not accepted for the reason why the proposed solution creates conditions for continued and uninterrupted exercise of the authority of a military police inspector. ''No one gets into the authority of a military inspector, but we very much ask that it be cleared and defined this part of which he transfers his powers to a third party. That is why I propose that MPs from the ruling coalition vote this amendment in the voting day and that at least one member in this law be valid until the end. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27648	It's been used 40 seconds since the parliamentary group's time. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 17 of the amendment was submitted by MP Konstantin Arsenović. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Konstantin Arsenović.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27649	The Honorable Presidency, Mr. Minister, the previous law intended that an officer, or a sub-officer, could be appointed to a directly lower rank after his consent. Now, by amending this law, you delete that provision and introduce that it can be set up without its consent. I suggested that the provisions of the former law be maintained, for the simple reason that the proposed amendment creates a great possibility, above all, of abuse of function, of position, of degradation of officers and of subordinates, but to some extent of their discrimination, given their calling, the knowledge they have. We all know that someone would be placed in a particular formational place and must meet the previous conditions, both school and other norms, so I do not see the need for such a provision to be introduced into the law and thus, above all, creates an abuse to remove people who are supposed to be unsuitable.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27650	The word is made by Minister Dragan Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27651	It wasn't intensity, nor did we understand each other well. It's simple, all the privileges that an officer of a higher rank has, and it comes to a place that is necessary to be a lower rank, it remains. So he's practically losing nothing. The problem is that in the time behind us, the systematization of formations was pre-named, meaning during some major states. In the meantime, the state has fallen, the number of jobs has been reduced by certain acts, and now we have extra people who have certain acts, and under these conditions, even a large part of them do not have a school for the act they have. In a desire not to drive these people out of retirement, we are still hiring them, and we have opened up the possibility that they can work with all these benefits that they have from a higher rank in a position that requires a lower rank. I don't think there's anything that would be controversial about it, on the contrary, believe me, that way we'll leave one large part of the people who would otherwise be indisposed in the system, because the new formation we're preparing has to reduce the number of high, especially high, acts that are necessary for the Serbian Army, because it's illogical that there are so many colonels in the military who have a numerical state that the Serbian Army currently has.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27652	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) If not, I am setting a break of up to 15 hours and we are finishing the morning section by announcing that the afternoon debate will begin in particular on Article 19, on which the amendment was submitted by a group of 20 MPs of the Group of Members of the Prosperity Group of Serbia. Thank you. [[After break – 15.10]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue to work in the afternoon part of the session by discussing in particular the 4th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Serbian Army, where it is under review in particular Article 19, to which the amendment was tabled by a group of 20 MPs, the Prosperity Group of Serbia. Does anyone want a word in the discussion in particular? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Bozidar Delic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27654	The President-in-Office, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, the purpose of this amendment to Article 19 is the following – in Article 19, it is said that those who did not finish the Military Academy when they were admitted to the professional service, and that they could carry out certain duties on their own, are necessarily referred to as a traineeship. Otherwise, this member, when looking at the basic Law, survived quite a transformation, as basic law said that those who finished the Military Academy were referred to the traineeship. It was strange at the time, but, I say, it could be, after all, that possibility. Now we're talking about a completely different person category, and our view is that it's not only a possibility, that they can be directed, but that they must be directed, because the Army is a specific organization. They should, at least, learn those other duties outside their professional competences or professional competences, which are related to the military, through an internship that the minister will prescribe, as it is intended for the minister to prescribe both length and length, as well as that curricula and the programme under which the traineeship should be carried out.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27655	The word is made by Minister Dragan Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27656	Very short. There are certain duties that are not adequately completed at the Ministry of Defence, that is, in the Serbian Army, and it is illogical to receive a professor of the doctor to be a professional military person and who is a professor, for example, at the Medical Faculty, and now becomes an officer at the VMA, to refer him to the internship. It's simply not a natural thing, but it's said here that they can be directed, which means, in relation to the needs of military service, for those who don't have the necessary experience to be instructed. This is, I say, relaxing the situation, because objectively we couldn't bring the professional frame into VTI, or VMA, or even in any other positions that are necessary, which are narrow and are not directly related to the military itself, such as the legal service, the financial service, etc.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27657	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 20th amendment was submitted by Konstantin Arsenović. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Konstantin Arsenović.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27658	The Honorable Presidency, Mr. Minister, is not clear to me why you did not accept the amendment for the simple reason why these issues are, and it is said about the obligations of members of the Army who are trained to participate in multinational operations that they must participate in accordance with the contract, when it is already regulated, the same provision or similar is in the Law on the Use of Serbia's Army in multinational operations. I simply don't see why the need to draw a wrong conclusion in this law can even be drawn as complex as this Article 80, now, that even those members who have been abroad are obliged to participate in forces that participate in multinational operations, because this law that follows is beautifully complex, it is precisely said that their training, preparation, conclusion of contracts, etc., so I don't see the need to define and regulate this issue by two laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27659	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 21 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Dusan Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27660	Ladies and gentlemen, the essence of the amendment I have submitted is that the rights that belong to a military person who is abroad in the diplomatic and consular representation that these same rights belong to a military person who is abroad in a business office. I will take this opportunity to ask Minister Sutanovac one question, to point out one problem that concerns me and national security, national defence and national dignity. I wonder why the Serbian government did not react to yesterday's rampage of Croatian fans at the Serbia-Croatian game? You could all see that there was literally not a single minute, for the entire duration of the game, that Croatian fans did not scan "Serbs on willows", "Kills, killed Serbs", "NDH", "Croatia to Zemuna"!- I'm sorry. The whole time they were singing Ustasha songs, running about Vukovar, Jasenovac, Anti Pavelic! I was personally ashamed to watch the game, and I believe that's how the other citizens of Serbia felt. I'm saying there's no team who wouldn't have left the stadium last night if it were in the position of Serbia's team. I absolutely claim there's no such thing as a team. If I didn't say what a delegate or a judge would do and if another team had been found at the Serbian team, he would have stopped the game immediately. Our people didn't react at all, and that's why I was ashamed. They have not responded for reasons why they and all the citizens of Serbia have been learning to be masochists over the past nine years, to carry inside them a sense of guilt, and not even to know why they wear it. For what? Just because they're Serbs. Last night, we listened to humiliation from Croatia, from members of the people who killed a million Serbs during World War II, only in Jasenovac 700,000, 15-20 years ago, in the last war, killed 7,000 Serbs, expelled 14,000, committed Europe's largest ethnic cleansing after World War II, expelled more than 600,000 Serbs, kidnapped 50,000 apartments, and committed material damage that was measured, somewhere, at 30 to 40 billion euros. It is completely incomprehensible for me that the team is not responding, that it is not responding to the leadership of the team, and even more incomprehensible that the Serbian government is not responding today. I remind you of the recent situation ahead of the match with France. Ten today, the public in Serbia listened to threats, literally threats, representatives of government in Serbia that fans do not accidentally try to whistle French anthem at a match between France and Serbia. Do you know what crime that would be? Now compare the whistle to the French anthem and compare what happened to Croatia. Next thing you know, you're one of the unfortunate French fans who died here in Belgrade, from that accident you made a world event of the first kind. His soul rests, it is an accident, it is a sin to die, but, you know, such accidents at games, sports events, literally, happen every day around the world, so no one has made such a drama about it like you did. Also, I remind you that your mayor has threatened if there's any rude running at some game at the Pioneers, that he will ban the play of sports games, basketball games, at the Pilionir Hall. Now I ask you, given all this -- how is it possible for the Serbian government to let it not respond to the humiliation last night? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27661	It's been used two minutes since the parliamentary group's time. I remind you that we are obliged to respect the Rules of Procedure and to speak on the subject of the agenda, on the basis of Article 106. Everything else implies the warning and reaction of the chairman. Anyone else want a word? The 22nd amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Konstantin Arsenovic and a group of 20 MPs from the Prosperity Group of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Zoran Babic, followed by the MP Konstantin Arsenovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27662	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, together with colleagues from the Prosperity Group, Serbia-SNS, I have tabled an amendment that provides for the removal of Article 22. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing Serbia's Military Law. With this member, you are predicting a floating salary for members of the Serbian Army, depending on the funds in the budget, if I understand this bill well, and that the situation in the budget is a chronic axis, so the adoption of this bill and the salaries of members of the Serbian Army will be less and less. What are the current salaries in the Serbian Army? The coefficient for the professional military person's salary calculation consists of a basic and additional coefficient. I think there are irregularities in the division of these additional coefficients. For example, members of the Battalion of the Military Police for security and special purpose "Cobra" have a maximum additional coefficient of 25% just because they provide three people in Serbia: the Chief of Staff, you, Mr. Minister and President of the Republic. The current basis for a professional military figure that you want to reduce with this bill is 22,000 dinars, if I am not mistaken, so now the corporal receives a salary of 23,643 dinars, a corporal of 24,183 dinars, a junior sergeant of 25,542 dinars, and a first class representative of 33,533 dinars. Could such a salary be used to pay for the apartment, to educate children, to support the family in Serbia? I don't think there's one dignified way he can do it, and you're still planning on cutting it down. The salaries of members of the Serbian Army were raised in the 2008 election year, and how do you announce that the Serbian government is stable and that, unfortunately, Serbia's citizens will endure a full mandate, which I do doubt, does this mean that salaries in Vojsca will only increase in 2012? I call on you to accept this amendment in the voting day and do not allow salary cuts in the Serbian Army. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27663	The word has been made by MP Konstantin Arsenović.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27664	I have submitted the amendment also to this article, in the sense that it is deleted. I do not think such a proposal is appropriate and is not acceptable from the point of view of the security of receiving members of the Serbian Army, for the simple reason that they could remain without pay. That's why I think, especially since there's no limit to what level these bases can be reduced to, unless there's no funds. The budget has to provide funds, that's logical. I also don't think a proposal like this in any case serves the safety of a member of the army's life to meet their personal needs. I therefore believe that this proposal (in the amendment) should also remain the solution it was, and that the government must make sure that it is provided by law by guaranteed receipts of members of the Serbian Army.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27665	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 25 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Dusan Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27666	Article 25 regulates the age limit after which officers, or officers, stop serving in Serbia's military. Under this bill, an officer, an officer, to the rank of colonel, must by law go into retirement after 53 years of life, and I suggest that that border be extended to 55 years; to the officer until the rank of colonel in 54 years, and I suggest that it be 56 years of life; an officer of the Brigadier General in 55 years, and I suggest that it be 57 years old; an officer of the rank of Major General at 56 years of age, and I suggest that it be delayed until 58 years of life; an officer in the rank of Lieutenant General under this bill of law should be retired in 57 years of life, and I suggest that it be in 59 years and, in the end, an officer in the act of the general should go after the law into retirement in 58 years of life, and I suggest that it be in 60 years of life. I simply find it inadmissible to retire in the 53rd year of the life of a Lieutenant Colonel, whose education has invested an enormous amount of money and knowledge. Fifty-three years of life is a biological age in which a man, especially a man who is a military person, who has spent his whole life taking care of his mental and physical health, means he is at his best and there is no reason to send such a person into retirement. I'm getting the impression that these age limits are still a cleanup from the army of wartime officers. NATO's aggression of the pact and war for Kosovo and Metohija were evil and no one normal wants that evil to happen again. If there was anything good about this, it is the knowledge and experience acquired by our soldiers and, above all, our officers – you are leaving Serbia's army without it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27667	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 29 of the amendment was submitted by MP Konstantin Arsenović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 32 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Jankovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter by Aleksandra Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27668	The amendment reads, "Article 32 is deleted." I have already said that I consider Serbia no longer promotes students of the Military Academy who have completed their education, but will simply produce them as goods. I said it looked like it at the West Point, too, to the favorite minister, and also pointed out that there is a concern that future Serbian officers will serve as expendable goods at various world war spots. Now I wanted to ask you a question. I won't ask you, Mr. Sutanovac, what time it is, because you wear watches that speak of your preference to NATO forces and those who love these Euro-Atlantic integrations. I'm going to look at my watch, which is Chinese production, and I have Russian, which is practically metaphorically (I know what you wear, it was going on) and it's expressing the idea of those who are big enough to be strategic partners of Serbia, and that they treat it as a worthy partner. For your information, I assume you don't know that as defence minister, today's commitment to the common, historical and spiritual values of the Serbian and Russian people, who were allies in the past, and in the future co-workers on the political and economic agenda, resulted in the signing of the Agreement to restore the 'Russian necropolis' in Belgrade. The agreement was signed by DSS Economic Council President Nenad Popovic and the first deputy head of the Single Russia Group in the State Duma, Valeri Rizanski. Unique Russia strongly supports all initiatives leading to Serbia's convergence with Russia, and by signing the agreement we want to make a full contribution to the development of Russian-Serbian relations, not only in terms of politics and economy, but also in areas where our countries traditionally co-operated, such as culture, science, education and spirituality, Rizanski said. The agreement agreed to rebuild the Russian cemetery and religious chapels, and monuments to the first world war Russian fighters. But I said I wouldn't ask you that, what I have to ask you is, did you personally propose a replacement term, so I'm going back to the amendment, unadjusted by the term "products"? It is neither in the spirit of Serbian nor in the spirit of Christian value that people are treated as "products". But given your shortfall today, where you said for people who are warlords, who have been wounded, traumatized and psychologically and physically, that they have appeared in huge quantities, I begin to reason that you are the creator of this term "products". Because, in fact, it means that in this impoverished, desolated, miserable and dissipated Serbia, it will produce goods of wide-ranging consumption - officers for a variety of battlefields where you will send them. Mr. Sutanovac, you forgot, and that we launched an initiative for your shift on 27 April. I'll talk about it further when there's a story about our army's involvement in multinational operations. It was then that an initiative was launched for your resignation, precisely for sending our troops to NATO maneuvers in Georgia. It was quite a campaign that joined a large number of NGOs, of which I would like to mention, "Doveri", "1389", "Face", "Nomocanon", there are various organizations, some of them are in jail, but they will come out, relatively soon. So, on the 20th, somewhere, on the eve of Mr. Medvedev's visit...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27669	People's MPs, please do not influence your statements on the judiciary, on the investigation, on the prosecutor.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27670	How can I influence the judiciary?- I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27671	National MPs, a public word spoken at a pay phone in the National Assembly, is a word of great weight. If you want to talk about your views, when it comes to the police, the prosecution and the judiciary, at press conferences, of course you can and will be subject to a law that might consider whether you have made your publication at press conferences in accordance with the law or not. But in the National Assembly, we all have to be aware of the responsibility for the public word. If the MP during the debate wants to influence the prosecution, the judiciary and the police, it is my duty to, or to, warn him that it cannot be done. You've spent three minutes of your MP's time. Anyone else want a word? Would you like to proceed from the time of the parliamentary group? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27672	You interrupted me on half a question and interpreted my influence on the prosecution, which is absolutely fantastic. Well, I'm really a great woman then.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27673	People's emissaries, looking at the stenogram, you can see what you said. If you had no idea what you were saying, I'm sorry, but I listen to what's said, I don't listen to what you thought you said. So, before you continue to violate the Rules of Procedure, I have to give you my final warning that this will not be tolerated and that you will be referred to a stenogram, that you have insight and that I only respond to what I hear is spoken. If you did not mean what you said, after reading, it is your will to make an apology or otherwise justify what is said and cannot be spoken in public speech in the National Assembly. If you want to keep talking about the amendment, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27674	And I'd be so unaware to talk about the amendment. As I understand it, Serbia will produce for NATO's purposes a huge quantity of goods of broad consumption -- our Serbian officers, for various world-wide hotspots such as Afghanistan or Iraq. The question addressed is the personal question of the minister – did he influence being a new member like this? 'Cause, you know, it's not like it's a "slutty you, I'm crazy" song. You can't say that to Serbia! This is really a step higher, this is a sort of arrogance towards the MPs. Last time you asked the president of the New Serbia Parliamentary Group to thank you for something you did, which is simply the subject of your work. So he should thank you because you occasionally interfere in your business. Today you have threatened the MPs and feared them, and you generally express contempt for the people. So I'm very curious if this is something you personally did? I think it's time for you to answer that question before there's a new election, where the people will make a whole new belief.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27675	The word has a minister, Dragan Sutanovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27676	I must say, I am very pleased that Velimir Ilic thanked me for what we do for the defence industry in Chačka. I think you can help with that, at least if you don't mind, that's enough. On the subject of hatred for the people, I don't think anyone has told me anything more disgusting in a long time. I'm a member of this people, I don't know how many years ago. I was born in Serbia, my parents are from Serbia, my two sons are growing up in Belgrade. I had a chance to move out of this country, I didn't want to. I love my people, but I love all people who live in Serbia and don't hate anyone. If the problem with me is that I don't hate anyone, I'm sorry, Mrs. Jankovic. I understand why you have hate, I understand why you've been spreading anger here for days. I have a complete understanding for you. And for you as well as Mr. Ilic, I will never be angry with you, no matter what you say here. The fact that you insult my family, I think it says a lot more about you than it does about me. Believe me, from that position where you're sitting, all people know the way you're talking here, so that doesn't hit me at all. As far as production is concerned, that's, let's say, the first act. You'd say it's like a priest's place when they're set, you know? So it's not production as production. The promotion is when there's an act, and then you upgrade it from some act to some higher rank. The production is an officer's call, when for the first time a young cadet or someone else gets his rank, which can be from a supporter, and above, depending on what position and what rank he gets. Believe me, in this law, there's hardly anything more archaic than that. It is a Serbian termological term that exists for a long, long number of years, as in 1837, not true that they were piets, it is true that they were cadets. I'd be happy if you could take some time to come to the Military Academy, talk to the people who deal with this military history. There's a nice library there, there'd be this opportunity to learn something more about what you want to know and to find out, that the word "pitomac" in one period of our people was an ugly word for the wards of correctional homes, for those who were at the study of crafts. That's why the word was deleted from the dictionary of military terminology, because it did not in any way give confidence to people who work. In order for someone to be a pie maker, we should see who's domesticating him. Believe me, at the Military Academy we don't do that kind of thing. You'll be a very dear guest to us. I can see you're happy to hear from me. We'll see to it that we explain absolutely everything. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27677	National MP Srdjan Milivojevic wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure. At the time of using the parliamentary group, I apologize, MP Srdjan Milivojevic wants to use the time of the parliamentary group to discuss the amendment. After him, MP Aleksandra Jankovic will have the right to reply.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27678	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, due to some language concerns, I just need to speak briefly to this lofty home. Just a brief reminder. In 1914, after the heroic victory of the Serb army at Cer, General Zivojin Misic was produced in the act of the Duke. On December 7th 1941, Dragoljub Mihajlovic was produced in the rank of Brigadier General, and was later produced in the act of a division general, and it stands in the apparitions that Serbian soldiers and officers received. In 1914 at Cer, after the battle in Tekeriš, more than 150 Serb soldiers were produced in the rank of subordinates, including my grandfather. I am proud that the Serbian army produced sub-commands, produced officers at a time when there was no NATO pact. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27679	The word has a folk MP, Aleksandra Jankovic, right to the replica of Minister Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27680	You didn't listen to me very carefully. I didn't say you hated the people. I said, "I despise my own people." It's not the same category after all. I believe you're mixing some concepts. I just don't get it, if it's an old Serbian term, why haven't we been produced here as MPs? Why aren't you made as a minister? You're the one who fits the description of someone who could be produced as a minister. It wouldn't have been bad if it had remained the term "pitomac". For many of you, it would be good if someone had domesticated you, learned how to communicate in Parliament, how to communicate in government and how to communicate with the people. As for thanks, I didn't want to read this, but I will read the part where someone who knows military history very well and with whom I talked about it, about our military tradition, and found out about it in 1837, says: "I particularly liked Mr. Velimir Ilic's speech, the part where he said that during NATO's aggression he was going to the homes of unhappy parents, who lost children in Kosovo and Metohija to Cypriot terrorists and NATO aviation. Unfortunately, my soldier S.M. Chacka was killed in the composition of my PVO unit in Djakovica. “ I’m not saying this to protect personal data. ) “When I came to Cačak after a year, with the intention of meeting my parents personally and visiting my war buddy's grave, S.M. soldiers, his parents told me that Mr. Velimir Ilic had personally advocated and ordered to secure a place in the cemetery closest to the unhappy parents. They told me that they were so grateful for it. And I am grateful to him for that." Velimir Ilic has never asked for gratitude, and you are asking for it and learn from it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27681	Does anyone else want a word to be discussed under the amendment to Article 32? No, I don't. ) On Article 36 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 37 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vlad Milojkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 38 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Duvnjak. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed the examination of the Bill's proposal in particular, does the Proposer's representative want to make the final statement? Does the minister want to make the closing statement? No, I don't. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 5th point of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on the Military, Working and Material Obaveza (individual) You have received amendments submitted at the proposal of the Law by the National MPs: Konstantin Arsenović, joint MPs Tomislav Nikolic, Jorgovanka Tabaković, Zoran Antic, Veroljub Arsić, Zoran Babić, Igor Bečić, Jelena Miladirović, Milena Posurica, Gojko Radić, Mićo Rogović, Vučeta Tošković and Dragan Čolić, then, National MP Vlatko Ratković, Vladan Batić, Vladjana Miladinović, Milataj Poskurica, Gojko Radić, Mićo Rogović, Vučeta Tošković and Dragan Čalić, then, National MP Vlatko Ratić, Vladjan Batić, Vlajan Antjan Antjan Antiić, Natan Antic, Natažarnović and Miržalić, Miršavić. The amendment was written by the MPs: Konstantin Arsenović in art. 4, 8, 24, 32, 42, the amendment proposing the addition of a new member of 46a. and in Art. 49, 51 and 75, together Tomislav Nikolic, Jorvanka Tabaković, Zoran Antić, Veroljub Arsić, Zoran Babić, Igor Bečić, Jelena Budimirović, Bozidar Delić, Stefan Zankov, Otto Kišmarton, Milan Knezevic, Saša Maksimović, Zoran Mašić, Predrag Mijatović, Ljiljana Miladinović, Mileta Poscurica, Gojko Radić, Mićo Rogović, Vučeta Tošković and Dragan Colić, in Article 54, to delete the article 55. 56, 69 and 70, then Dusan Marić on Article 4 item 1 and Zoran Antić on Art. 27 and 33. It's a bill of law. You have received a report from the Legislative Committee, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. National MP Ljubisa Petkovic submitted to the 1st amendment. The minister added the government's acceptance decision to the table, and when the amendment is on the agenda, there will be oral acceptance statements. Thank you, Minister. National MP Ljubisa Petkovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by MP Ljubisa Petkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27682	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, citizens of Serbia, on behalf of the SRS Parliamentary Group, I have tabled an amendment to Article 1 and suggested that the text of the proposal eliminate excess and unnecessary words, in order for Article 1 to be formed and based as the basis of the other members of this law. In my best interest, I suggested that the text be changed and that the words "military obligation" should be deleted from the first sentence, after the word "military obligation" being deleted from the words "regret obligation, military service obligation; reserve composition". It is generally known that the words "military obligation" represent a general concept defined in Article 3. The bill also implies obligations to carry out, recruiting obligations, military service obligations, as well as the service of the Serbian Army's reserve. The promoter also introduced into this member an undefined category of military taxpayers, which should also be deployed into an undefined formation without clear tasks and objectives. The term "work obligation" in labour units is unique and unknown in military terminology and formation, and is intended only for persons who knowingly and deliberately avoided military service. Units of labour obligations are not military formation, but civil service, and the billmaker intends to form ad hoc as necessary, primarily from persons who are unallocated to the reserve composition of the Serbian Army, i.e. persons who, according to your proposals, would replace the military term with civil service. I propose that this amendment, which I have submitted before the SRS Parliamentary Group, be accepted in order to strengthen the army, or the defence power of the Serbian Army. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27683	Anyone else want a word? Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Konstantin Arsenovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljubisa Petkovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Ljubisa Petkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27684	Thank you. On behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 2 and suggested that Article 4 which is said to be added after Article 3 - the enforcement of a military obligation under emergency or war conditions also applies to persons with dual citizenship who are resident in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. This amendment is also important and I expect the minister to accept it without thinking, because it is fully in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. In order to justify and support the justification and need for the adoption of this amendment, I must specify the fact that in the Republic of Serbia there are hundreds of thousands of citizens with dual citizenship who are resident in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, who originate from other republics of the former Yugoslavia. It is also not a negligible number of citizens of the Republic of Serbia who have the capacity of dual citizenship of the Republic of Serbia and of some mostly Western states, who live and reside in the Republic of Serbia. The proposal to adopt this amendment aims to prevent citizens of the Republic of Serbia residing in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, with dual citizenship, from calling for citizenship of another country and thus avoiding obligations under Article 2(2). Proposal for a law on military, labour and material obligations. If you do not accept this amendment, you would be directly responsible for defeating the battle, weakening defence power and preventing the obligations that the Serbian Army has under the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27685	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Konstantin Arsenović. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Konstantin Arsenović.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27686	The amendment has been accepted as before, so please note that it has been accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27687	For the sake of the stenogram, MP Ljubisa Petkovic submitted the amendment to Article 3. I read that amendment or I read it across the line. I apologize, I have not read this amendment, I have read the amendment to Article 3 submitted by MP Konstantin Arsenović, with the script in the synopsiss held by MPs, it is on page 7 and the amendment to Article 3 submitted by MP Ljubisa Petkovic is on page 6. Now he's in the debate, so if you want the word you're right. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27688	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the SRS Parliamentary Group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 3. The bill also proposed that attitude 1 be changed without the following: the military obligation is general and is subject to it by all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, consisting of a recruiting obligation, the obligation to serve the military term and obligations in the reserve system, which are carried out under the conditions prescribed by this and a special law. The SRS believes that the obligation to carry out civil service, in exchange for serving the military term on any basis, reduces the combat certainty and defence of the sovereignty and integrity of the Republic of Serbia. Moreover, civil service of the military term, as can be said in the translation, is contrary to Article 21(1). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which reads: "In front of the Constitution and the law, all equal. ''I would like the minister to explain that all citizens are equal before the law and the Constitution, if someone has to defend the country, and even lay down their lives for it, while the other capable persons do not have that obligation. Please, Mr. Minister, take a look at this same article in Section 1. The bill, which says: "The military obligation is general and is subject to it by all citizens of the Republic of Serbia". Do you think the Serbian Army's armed forces will benefit, in connection with the country's defence, from those who have replaced the military deadline with a civilian service because of someone allegedly objecting and what will happen if the vast majority is declared and because of the objection, the military term is replaced by civil service. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27689	Anyone else want a word? National MP Konstantin Arsenović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27690	I'd like to make it clear. On behalf of the United Pensioners Party, I have submitted an amendment to Article 2 and Article 3. I have information that it has been accepted, but it is not said here, so please tell me, is it accepted or not accepted?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27691	The government has accepted the amendment and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Given that we do not have a decision to accept amendments at the meeting of the Security Committee, the amendment in this part of our debate cannot become an integral part of the bill's proposal, but the amendment in the voting day will be declared by the MPs and I assume that it will be accepted if you provide the amendment majority. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Dusan Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27692	I have submitted an amendment to Section 2 which reads: "The military obligation in peace is carried out by citizens in the commands, units and institutions of the Serbian Army, except for those who replace military service with civil service, and in war and emergency in Serbia, the police and other defence forces and civil protection, in accordance with the Defence Plan and the decisions of the authorities". I have submitted an amendment proposing that these words be deleted – "except for those who replace the service of the military service" and that amendment is in line with the SRS' position to abolish civilian service of the military term. If this solution remains, you will practically criminalise the criminalisation of the safe citizens of Serbia, the security military debtors against the unconscious. Those who behave in the interests of the country, those who prepare for its defence, those who respect its interests will be punished by having an obligation to come to military exercises after the regular service of the military, to participate in all activities concerning Serbia's defence. Those who serve as porters, cleaning women, babysitters, teachers, who, along with you, make fun of the country's defence, with the Serbian military tradition, with the Serbian Army, are rewarding this bill. After the so-called military deadline has ended, because in no case can it be called a military deadline, so that someone can serve a military term without taking the gun into his hand, it will practically stop any of their obligations on the defence of the Republic of Serbia. I ask you, the military term is served until the age of 27 and, let's say, on the assumption that everyone is serving a military term in 27 years, a civil military term – how is it possible, but it's insane, to release those persons at 27 years of age from any obligation when it comes to defending their country? As a formal excuse, it serves as a so-called objector of conscience. With all due respect, I claim that most of these people who opt for civilian military service have no conscience. What's this about? According to counterpart Radisa Ilic, it is the fakes, who want to serve a formal military deadline, not to bear legal consequences without sweating.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27693	People's MP, I warn you to express your qualifications, label and disqualify people on the basis of their, our constitution, guaranteed rights. I also remind you of the obligation and the weight of public words as a People's MP. The objection of conscience is defined by the Constitution and I warn you to refrain from disqualifying, labeling and designing your own views, which are with or without prejudice, on people who have rights given by the Constitution.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27694	I thank you for this remark, however, Mrs Comic, I have the right as a national MP and as a citizen of Serbia to present my worthy court. As for the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia obliges all citizens of Serbia to make a major contribution to the country's defence and preparations for the country's defence. I responsibly claim that civil service organised to undermine Serbia's military security.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27695	People's MP, you can't claim such a thing as a national MP in the context of responsibility for a public spoken word. The undermining of the country's defence system is a category that is punishable by law, or you have information about who undermines the country's defence system or, lastly, I warn you, refrain from disqualification and labelling in the defense of your position, but must be given within what is written by the Constitution, that we all have the right, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27696	Mrs. Komic, I will complete my presentation to the next finding – Serbian Radical Party MPs have been on the agenda seven days since a set of military laws have presented arguments in favour of the claim I made. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27697	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sladjan Mijaljevic. Does he want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27698	On behalf of the Serbian Radical Party, I have submitted an amendment to Article 4 paragraph 1 point 3 where we say point 3 is deleted, i.e. the words "persons in civil service". So, before the Constitution, everyone is equal, and in this law of the army, we see that some are less equal and some are more equal. Article 21 The Constitution says, "The Constitution and the law are all equal. Everyone has the right to equal legal protection, without discrimination. Any discrimination, directly or indirectly, is prohibited, on any basis, and particularly based on race, gender, nationality, social origin, birth, religion, political or other belief, property, culture, language, age and physical disability. ''Stav, therefore, for the SRS is principled – are you or are you not, or are you a soldier or are you not a soldier?- I'm sorry. Also, only when a military deadline is served and when it is entered into the reserve can people be classified on reserve and civil protection. While soldiers in barracks are 24 hours and only with special permits can they leave the barracks, go out to town for the weekend, go on a regular basis, these others have much more privileged status – they walk around the cafes, go to parties, have lunch at Mommy's, sleep at the girl's house, and they will someday say they served the army. This is demeaning each other. While soldiers give a certain sacrifice, civilians are deceived to, like, serve the army, and in fact someone tricked them into combing their wigs, walking pregnant women, wearing geese and shovels in hospitals, and they'll say they served the army. Indeed, this is one inappropriate behavior and one part of the law that absolutely needs to be erased because it spreads defetism in society and in defense of the state. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27699	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Dusan Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27700	I tabled an amendment to add a new position to Article 6 after Article 5, which reads: "The Serbian Army's reserve composition is subject to and persons who have not regulated the military deadline within the envisaged legal deadline." What's this about? It is that we in Serbia have an extremely high percentage of military taxpayers who for various reasons in the last few years, even in the last 10 years, have not served a military deadline. If this legal solution is adopted, they practically cease to be military bonds, their obligations to the Serbian Army's reserve composition cease. Some of them did not serve military service for objective reasons, perhaps because of study, some due to temporary illness, and some because their family may live abroad, so for some reasons simply, for practical and moral reasons, they were in a situation that was difficult for them to come to Serbia, to take a year, six months, to serve a military term. However, the largest number of non-soldiers were not meant to do so because they left Serbia or simply deserted for some other reason. If this legal solution is adopted, they will be favoured in relation to those citizens of Serbia, compared to those of military officials – who, in a correct and responsible manner, resolve their obligations to the Republic of Serbia and its defence. Practically, these persons who have avoided military service, if this legal solution, proposed by the Government, is accepted, or if the SRS amendment is not accepted, will be rewarded. First, they will be rewarded with amnesty. We know what practice it is after 2000 -- you amnesty for everything and everything, when it comes to Serbia's defence, and after that will be additionally rewarded by not having to participate in the reserve composition exercises. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27701	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) If not, the People's MP Ljubisa Petkovic has submitted to Article 8 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Ljubisa Petkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27702	On behalf of the SRS Parliamentary Group, ladies and gentlemen, I have tabled an amendment to Article 8(1) because the proposed text is contrary to Article 2(3), Article 3(2) and Article 9(1). The bill, to which the SRS also submitted an amendment. In two minutes as provided for by the Rules of Procedure of the Amendment, I do not have time to read what the opposites are, but it is much more important that the proposed text is contrary to Article 21. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which says, "In front of the Constitution and the law, everyone is equal." The proposed text in Article 8(1) provided by the Government is also contrary to Article 15. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which reads: "The state guarantees equality between women and men and develops a policy of equal opportunities". Citizens of Serbia, this is evidence, in Article 8, that state leadership violates the Constitution and makes discrimination against women's sexes. I would draw attention that it was once unimaginable that a woman could do police work, and in practice they proved to be much safer, either as police officers or traffic cops. The reminders work, in some countries a military deadline is required for both men and women. The SRS is simply asking for their right to be respected and we have proposed this by this amendment, which reads: "The women are not subject to the recruiting obligation and the obligation to serve the military term. Women on their own request may be referred to military service." Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27703	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) If not, the People's MP Ljubisa Petkovic has submitted to the 10th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Ljubisa Petkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27704	Thank you. On behalf of the SRS Parliamentary Group, I submitted an amendment to Article 10(3) and suggested that Article 3 reads: "The general call is made in the case of war, immediate war danger or declaration of emergency and has the same legal fact as the individual call." In order for Serbian citizens to be more clear about what is going on and what is the basic objection of the SRS parliamentary group, I would have to read Section 2 and Section 3 together. In Article 10, point 2 reads: "A military official is called to make a military commitment by general and individual invitation." According to Article 3(3), "the general call produces the same legal fact as the individual." In the peacetime conditions, the SRS believes that only an individual invitation can be made to make a military commitment. A general call may only be made in the event of a war, a direct war threat or a declared state of emergency, and then there is an excuse for that. A general call may be made through means of public information, i.e. written, electronic media, public advertising, etc. Ladies and gentlemen, Serbia's citizens, it is extremely inappropriate for military bonds to be called on in peacetime terms by a general call for military obligations, unless the songwriter planned not to issue an invitation, because of the lack of information, monetaryally and otherwise punishable, in order to fill the Republic of Serbia's budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27705	Anyone else want a word? If not on Article 10 of the amendment, MP Dusan Maric has submitted. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Dusan Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27706	I have submitted an amendment to Article 10 of the position, which reads: 'The recruit, or the person in the reserve, who is invited by the territorial authority in connection with the conduct of the military obligation, shall be required to report to the place and at the time specified in the general or individual invitation and to carry with him the items and documents specified in the invitation. ''The essence of my amendment, which I will now read to you, is contained in the presentation of fellow Members Petkovic, it reads: ''The recruit, i.e. the person in the reserve composition, who is invited by the territorial authority by an individual call for military obligations in the peacetime conditions, is obliged to report to the place and at the time specified in the individual invitation and to bring with him the things and documents listed in the invitation. '"What's this about? It's about what the SRS thinks is unserious and think of the possibility, let alone the possibility of even legalizing such a serious law, that recruits are invited to serve the military term by a general invitation. I don't think that's serious. I hope so, and I believe that this is not the result of my patriarchal education and the fact that I considered it an extraordinary honor when I received an invitation to serve military service in the JNA of that time. I believe that, in this way, the future defenders of the country are given a certain honor if they are given an individual invitation. Today, young people, comrades, invite each other to their birthdays, so they're not invited by a general invitation. They're invited during school vacations, invited to school and said we have a birthday on Sunday at 10:00, come, but they honor them by giving them individual invitations. So I think we should separate these two things when it comes to inviting soldiers to regular military service, that should be done by individual invitation. When it comes to calling reserve military personnel on reserve composition exercises, it should also be done by individual invitations, and, God forbid, if the country comes to emergency or wartime conditions, then it is understood because of a number of technical problems and because of the speed that there is a legal obligation for all military bonds to be reported, at the nearest, in their military units, means within the shortest time limit, without an individual call. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27707	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 10 of the amendment was submitted by MP Konstantin Arsenović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 10 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Škrbić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljubisa Petkovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27708	Ladies and gentlemen, the citizens of Serbia, the MPs, on behalf of the SRS Parliamentary Group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 11(2) and suggested that Article 2 reads: "If the recruit, or the person in the reserve group, does not respond to the call, and the absence does not justify it, a procedure will be carried out in accordance with the law and determine the reason and circumstances for not making the call. "Now I would read to the Serbian citizens the proposal proposed by the DS through the Serbian government in item 2, which reads, "If the recruit, or the person in the reserve, does not respond to the call and the absence does not justify it, will be forced to do so." The proposal is a confirmation that it is consciously working to break up Serbia's military and a weak battle effort, endangering the defence of the Serbian state. It is simply amazing that old communist methods of repression are being used against citizens who have served an honorable military deadline and who are ready to defend the country, while on the other hand thousands of militaryly qualified persons because of the alleged objection of conscience you release all obligations and responsibilities in the defence of the state. Are you wondering if the military pledge in the reserve is able to always respond to the obligations, whether it is prevented because of the disease or simply not presently in the place of residence, or if there is an even more serious reason? No, you don't care. You'd go straight to jail, fine, maybe both. If text content is adopted in paragraph 2, as in the Bill's proposal, it will further destimulate militaryly capable of serving military time in the barracks, under arms and uniforms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27709	Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Ms. Verica Radet. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27710	The amendment tabled by counterpart Aleksandar Martinovic and I refers to a member of the 12th to talk about calling military officials to commit military obligations to those who have asked for discharge from the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia. We do not think a well-proposed solution is well-proposed and that a military official who has applied for discharge from the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia and has notified the territorial authority of calling for military obligations, while in the law it is proposed not to be called, and in this context the position of the 2nd proposal should be deleted, and that position 2 says that – exceptionally, from this previous provision, a recruit who has applied for discharge from citizenship, who is 27 years old in that calendar year of life, is invited to serve the military term. An interesting explanation is why these amendments have not been accepted, so the government says the amendment is not accepted because such a solution would allow a large number of military taxpayers to apply for release from citizenship during the 27 years of life, as well as during the war and emergency, thus jeopardising the defence system. Our amendments are contrary to what is written in this explanation. The intensity of our amendment solution is exactly the opposite of this, because we think that in no way should the defence system of the state or the security of the state of Serbia be compromised. Unfortunately, the military reform, launched by Boris Tadic, which will be completed by the current Sutanovac minister, is heading right this way to endanger the Serbian state's possible defence system. The Americanization of our army is the greatest evil that could have happened in our army, and that is the essence of this reform, and that is the essence of all these laws that are being discussed these days. After all, in order to leave the country at a time of war or emergency, one does not have to apply for discharge from citizenship. It wasn't that far, during the 1999 NATO bombing, during the aggression, that we should remind ourselves of who deserted everyone, who left the country, who was from abroad showing NATO aggressors who should be bombed, and later on on the wings of the 'Buldozer Revolution' came and came to high state functions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27711	Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Sladjan Mijaljevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27712	The amendment I submitted to Article 12(3) changes and reads: "A military official who has been granted a temporary stay abroad is not invited to carry out a military obligation no later than September of the calendar year in which he is 26 years old". This law states: ''A military official who has been authorised to stay abroad shall not be invited to carry out a military obligation until the expiry of the approved stay. '"I think this is my solution or this is my proposal much more precise. This explanation indicates that this attitude is insufficiently defined, and especially in our situation where the country is, when we are squirming under corruption and the various unwanted behaviours of people who place stamps on certain documents, so it may be that someone shows little attention to a particular body sitting in a military section and gets a little longer time period that passes this time mentioned here, which is September of the calendar year, when a military official is 26 years old and can remain. I suggest you adopt this proposal, because it's more precise than yours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27713	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 13 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27714	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, if the Minister were here, I would ask him before I move on to the defense of my amendment, and I suppose if he had accepted my amendment after my argument, what does it mean, 'the time the cadet of the Military Academy spends', etc. As far as I know, there's an Opel cadet, and whoever's training as an officer, he's a sub-office, etc. It's called the Army School Pitomac or the Military Academy Pitomac. "So much for respecting the language and old good principles that the Army in Serbia has cherished until today. I have submitted an amendment to Article 13 and I ask that the 3rd position be changed and that it reads: "The instruction on recruitment and the completion of the Serbian Army brings peace to the Ministry of Defence" and that this second section relating to Article 13 reads "and in the war the Supreme Command". First of all, the minister is the head of the body called the Ministry, so the state institutions and the Ministry is giving instructions on recruitment, etc. And he doesn't bring a minister. Secondly, the minister takes too much of his right to replace the supreme command in the sense of unit completion, in terms of current mobilization and current recruitment, and preparation for the country's defence. Of course, the minister is gone, and the gentleman sitting in the ministry can only sit there because they have no right to take a word and explain to me why my amendment is not accepted. I suppose the minister would explain what he'd say - I'm sorry, but I'd like to be a "dad" in the war with all the armed forces. Unfortunately, it happens often that the ministers sit down and then pick themselves up and leave and remain clerks from the Ministry who just fill our benches here, and there's nothing they can do about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27715	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) To Article 16. The amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 17 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljubisa Petkovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is from the peoples of Ljubisa Petkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27716	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS Parliamentary Group, I have tabled an amendment to Article 17 and suggested that Article 2 be changed, and the new text to read - "The recruits referred to special units of the Serbian Army and candidates for reserve officers are subject to expert and psychophysical checks", instead of "safe" as provided for in the bill. The SRS believes it is past the time of the totalitarian regime, when the Communist Party chose and set up personnel according to the moral political resemblance and placed personnel from its ranks in certain places. Today, the DS is doing it, but under the new name "safeguard check". The SRS believes that a recruit enrolled in a special unit or a reserve officer school should be unconditionally physical and psychologically healthy, as well as demonstrates satisfactory expertise rather than moral-political similarity. The other thing is to check if the candidate has a criminal record behind him, which may be a distraction in his election. The SRS proposes that the 3rd position be changed, and that the new one is said to be: "The rules under which the professional and psychophysical changes are being made by the Ministry of Defence" and not by the defence minister as set out in the Bill's proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27717	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 18 of the amendment was submitted by National MP Natasa Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is made by Vice President Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27718	Gentlemen of the Ministry of Defence, since Minister Sutanovac is not here, I want to tell you that I have submitted an amendment on behalf of the SRS Parliamentary Group because this is not a good way to educate the draft commission. The Military Obligation Regulation, passed by the Serbian Parliament, the Serbian-Montenegro government in 2005, as well as the 1991 law, much better regulated the way the recruiting commission was educated than you have now given in this system law. Here's why. First of all, because of the reasons I had, given that there are many different specialities here in our parliamentary groups, both in the SRS and among other colleagues, who will agree with me that this psychological aspect of the objection, or the possibilities that the law gives, now, twice, is either - or, either you are capable or not of a military obligation, is very important. If Mrs. Djukić-Dejanović, who is not here right now, is not a specialist in the neuropsychiatrics, she knows best, and Mrs. Djukić-Dejanović, who is currently not here, because in the Kragujevac military section, when he existed, unfortunately, as the military was ruined, or how the plan was made to abolish the Kragujevac Military Division, to remove the Garnizon, etc., there are no more soldiers or officers in my city, but you know very well that the largest number of those who seek to postpone the military deadline is also some, unfortunately, other diseases, but, as they say, 'psychic interference' – who is in the recruiting commission, if there are no specialists who will evaluate it? I must remind you, gentlemen, Mr. Jovic and you and your colleagues, as it was regulated earlier by the regulation. The regulation said, 'At the request of the competent military department, the competent military authority shall regulate the required number of professional soldiers and recruits' and so on, 'which are necessary for the area' and says that the number of members of the recruiting commission was variable, it shall not be required, it shall have at least three members, may be a larger number, it shall further say, 'a member of the recruiting commission shall be designated by a professional officer, a doctor appointed by the competent military department of the military district or an officer of the reserve military staff. '"There isn't one here at all. You know, now you have an airman assigned to the military commission, then that doesn't make sense. You must, if you are looking after the units of the Serbian Army in a way established by the Army Act, then you must also worry about who will assess the ability of that future recruit. It was a very explicit remark on how to determine the recruiting commission. Don't forget that factor because, again I say, you can do it by statistics to see back who knows how many years, decades, that the most common reasons why someone goes to a doctor is not to serve a military term mostly of 'psychological nature'. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27719	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 19 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljubisa Petkovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Ljubisa Petkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27720	On behalf of the SRS Parliamentary Group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 19(2) and proposed that point 4 be added after point 3) of Article 19. The bill mostly regulates issues related to the gender of the military and the health capacity of a military official, or recruit, in connection with military service. These are objectively and realistically listed all the elements that are important for determining the stork in which the recruit would be recorded. Among other things, it was stated that the recruiting commission would take care of acquired qualifications, then certain knowledge from some fields or skills, but also the results of medical and other examinations. In point 2 of the Annex to Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011, the text of the Annex to Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011 is replaced by the text set out in the Annex to Here are the following estimates: ''1' capable of military service; 2) temporarily incapacitated for military service; 3) incapacitated for military service. ''The SRS proposes to enter a score under point 4 ''limited capable'. As a reason, I state that there is a number of citizens who have been declared unable to serve the military deadline because they have problems, for example, with eye vision at a distance or do not recognize the color or any other problem, and have a keen desire to serve the military deadline. The person who would be evaluated by the recruiting commission – 'limited to military service', would not have the obligation to serve the military deadline, but could be referred to their request, given that they can carry out certain activities on a computer, in a warehouse, in a kitchen or be in charge of some other activities that are not related to the use of weapons and participation in war operations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27721	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 21 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Proposal to add a new member. National MP Konstantin Arsenovic tabled an amendment proposing that a new member of 21a be added after article 21. There's a word from MP Konstantin Arsenovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27722	The President-in-Office, I would not point out, would read this proposal of a new position, which reads: Military bonds that have been convicted of a criminal offence with elements of violence, which are being prosecuted on official duty or on private charges, as well as for participation in riots and fights, before referring to military service, are subject to a subsequent specialist review to determine his ability to serve military time with weapons. 'This is what I wanted to avoid any kind of accident in a collective like the Army. That was a problem before. The explanation given to me is unacceptable, that it is not provided for in the review manual, and each, instruction is adapted to the existing law. It's invaluable damage that can result from the reception of such people, who are prone to violence, and yet to give them arms in hand, so I don't see any reason why we've liberalized the service of the Army, so that this amendment isn't accepted and that we don't allow consciously bringing in people who may cause disaster tomorrow, accident, and that I don't speak any further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27723	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 22 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27724	Mrs. Komic, this is the pocket edition of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the Mao Ce Tung edition, there is a register of concepts. Looking for the term "civil service," we came to the letter "c" and there are only two concepts: censorship and church. In Article 45. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is talking about the release of some obligation that implies the use of weapons. It's the service of an army without a weapon – it can be said, with a knife for peeling potatoes, with horses, with other things, but without guns and guns, so let's limit ourselves to it. My amendment wasn't accepted, and I don't know why it wasn't accepted. I have requested that all of what is stated in Article 22(2) be deleted, because you will see for yourself that all of this is already in attitude 1, as regards the fulfilment of the recruiting obligation during the emergency and during the war threat. The geniuses figured it out, so they wrote attitude two, which says, "For the sake of enlisting in the war," the war was already declared, and the armed attacks are on the way, "The First Year of War Recruitment Plan"... How do you not find it strange? Why the first year of the war? Why isn't it covered with the first attitude? I assume during your peacetime, you're following the emergency plans and the state of the war? Did you serve the Army? Do you know that when NATO bombing started, the first bomb that fell in Serbia fell to the reserve position of the Government of the Republic of Serbia? Well, the first thing that goes down to the enemy is war plans, and you're here to brag about how the war plan of full recruitment is done in the first year of the war. We don't need spies at all. You write it all down nicely. We don't need this younger Veljko Kadjevic or Hadzic, we don't need anyone. You write it all down, and we were just arguing about whether a military person could attend some meetings and so on. And you nicely wrote everything in the law. To what end? To control supposed state authorities if they meet their obligations under the law. Item 1, of this article, means that in peacetime conditions you make plans. You're interpreting it in a completely weird way. Do your friends you share snakes with, lizards, from Dayton, Ohio apply something like this? Well, they don't. Come on, you go to the secrets of the CIA, the Pentagon and so on. Have you seen a show about Carla del Ponte lately? She's been walking almost the whole world, talking in various ministries, and she's got a camera going on, and she's recording everything. She got to the Pentagon, the camera in front of the door - the girl, she's gone! He can't come with you, ma'am, to enter the building and end the story. No democracy, no story. No fairy tales. There's no civil service. There's nothing. There's a line. And you all go ahead. As if you have no experience, first these plans are being attacked, first it's being taken to know what our strength is, and then according to those plans, which we're counting on to be secret, they're attacking us, eventually, and God forbid. Look, you're military faces, these civilians don't have to know, this is a purely military matter. So, under peaceful conditions, recruiting plans are made daily, and that's no problem at all. And you, put on anything that shouldn't be in the law. I am absolutely certain, Mr. Sutanovac, that you will accept this amendment of mine, because it strengthens the first position of that member. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27725	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 23 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 24 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miroslav Markicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 25 of the amendment was submitted by a group of 20 MPs of the Prosperity Group of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Bozidar Delic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27726	As this legal proposal turns out, all recruits must be assigned to military service in the year when they are 19 years old, except for those who are required, whether because of their study or other obligations, they are authorised to regulate that obligation later. If the number of units we have today increased the response of young people to military service with weapons, this would not be possible. If only one word had been added – at the earliest in the calendar year in which they were nineteen years old, then it could mean that they could be sent at the earliest at nineteen, but also in the twenty, twenty, and so on. The purpose of our amendment is to fix this, because you said it so decadently that it wouldn't be possible then in the twentieth year, that you must ensure that everyone is referred to military service at the age of 19. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27727	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 25 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljubisa Petkovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Ljubisa Petkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27728	Ladies and gentlemen, the citizens of Serbia, on behalf of the SRS Parliamentary Group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 25(1) and I have proposed a new text that reads: "The service of the military deadline is referred to a recruit who has been assessed as capable or limited in military service, in accordance with Article 19 of this Law, in the calendar year when he is 19 years old. ''The SRS believes that a person with limited ability can be referred to the personal request of the Serbian Army unless his health is violated by military service. This amendment is in line with the amendment I submitted on behalf of the SRS to Article 19(3). It's a bill of law. I would like to add that military legislation states that it is limited in ability and that, based on the evaluation of the recruiting commission, it can be distributed in accordance with its expertise, qualifications and acquired sports or other skills. I wouldn't say specific cases, but you do know that some top athletes were found unable to serve the military deadline and were able to produce excellent results. Why would such persons not be assessed as limited and on a personal request referred to military service, if nothing else, that at least as trainers in training in various disciplines? Given that Serbia has various military tribes in which a person with limited ability can achieve significant results, I suggest you accept this amendment, because I am sure that a person with limited capacity will make a greater contribution to the defence of the country than a military capable person who would serve in civil service instead of in the Serbian Army. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27729	Anyone else want a word? The 25th amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. The People's Messenger Mirko Munjic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27730	After the title: "Obligation of military service" from Articles 24 to 38, Article 25 regulates the question when the recruit is referred to the service of the military and who makes the decision, or who makes the order. In this article, Article 2, you predict that it is the defence minister, and we propose the amendment to do so by the Ministry of Defence, therefore, as an institution and as the only relevant body that can plan and complete units and peacetime conditions. The minister is only one person in that ministry, though, by position, by rank, is the first, but still, you will allow, it is only a man of flesh and blood, a man who can normally make mistakes. It almost happened, a few days ago, the minister said there are about 55,000 military pensioners in Serbia, if I remember correctly, and that, as the minister said then, is a "great amount" for this country. It seems to me that today the minister has used a similar word for military officials, he said there are them in the 'great amount'. I would say that one man, so was he and the military minister, could happen to say at one point that Serbia has a large amount of military bonds, which can tomorrow represent some cannon meat in some multinational forces somewhere in Iraq, Afghanistan and so on. In order not to be a large amount, and to avoid that amount of human cannon meat of Serb soldiers being used for such a thing, I think it is much more adequate and smarter to accept this amendment, that it is still done by the Ministry of Defence as an institution, because I think it is only relevant that it plans and completes the units in peacetime conditions. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27731	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 26 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Milan Avramović.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27732	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment on behalf of the SRS, to amend Article 26, which would in some ways be more precise and precise, more written and time-consuming. We propose that Article 25 reads, instead of an existing member: ''The recruit enrolled at the university is obliged to provide proof to the territorial authority by the end of November of the current year that he was enrolled in the university, or another higher school or vocational studies at the beginning of the study. ''So, 'in the beginning of the study', let's underline it. In point 2, we say: 'The military official is obliged to notify the military territorial authority if he changes or leaves college, high school or vocational studies or otherwise loses the right to postpone military obligations. ''In order to explain this amendment, and to make it easier for the citizens to understand, I must point out this, that matter is related to the suspension and release from military service regulated by this law in Article 39, and therefore, on behalf of the SRS, I felt that Article 1 of Article 26 should be fictitiously incorporated into point 8), which should be added, Article 39. For what? Because it is unnecessary for a student who has enrolled in a university, a second high school or a vocational study to submit every year evidence that a regular student is enrolled in a university, and that, primarily, for the purpose of simplifying the administration. We of the SRS believe that the proposed amendment was in accordance with Article 39(1) of point 8 and the function of this amendment was to prevent unnecessary delay and avoidance of military service. Therefore, in Article 39, which includes a delay, interruption and release from military service obligations, a point of 8 should be put in place, which will specify, and my amendment, which will help keep this bill unambiguously interpreted or in a way that may be appropriate to a student. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27733	Anyone else want a word? Member of the 27th amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27734	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, both you and the public of Serbia were able to make sure that the SRS MP group had enviable knowledge from this area. We had a dilemma when it came to Article 27 whether to completely delete it or put an amendment on it, to try to fix something. Because Articles 24, 25 and 26 also regulate the style of military service, we would say. And style can be: with or without weapons, length of life, at the earliest time when you can go to military service and I would say, at the latest, in the life of a man, or a soldier. In Article 27, you say, ''A recruit who demands to be referred to the service, that is, the service of the military term.' ''If we have such a law, especially given the provisions of Articles 24, 25 and 26, then there is no need to refer to the request. On this basis, the obligation is also created, i.e. the exception under certain conditions. And then, in accordance with the military's needs, according to this law, it goes to military service. What did we intervened for? More because of Article 2 27's attitude than because of Article 1, although we have proposed some changes in the full member. Article 2 states: "The recruit who returns from an approved temporary stay abroad and requests to be referred to the service of the military term shall be referred to within the first time limit. We said, "It is according to the law." ''In an explanation why this amendment is not accepted, it is said - that someone has gone abroad temporarily, and has returned to serve a military term. No, someone could have left at 18, when otherwise under this law he can't be a military official, he can't serve the army, and if he's back, we can't send him in the next time, but there can be another practical problem. If there is a departure to military service in December, and if all the preparations are completed, let's say, conditionally, that's December 10th, and he returns from abroad on November 29th or 30th. The first deadline is that class in December, and all preparations are complete. Yes, it will be the next one, and then we said, that we may be precise, so that we may not cause any confusion and confusion, so in accordance with the law. And that would already be the next deadline. I think this amendment should be accepted. He would do well to improve and clarify this provision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27735	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 27th amendment was submitted by a group of 20 MPs of the Progress Serbia Group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 28th amendment was submitted by a group of 20 MPs of the Progress Serbia Group. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has been requested and the word has been spoken by MP Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27736	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the purpose of every law is to be clear and to regulate the area for which it is intended. However, I believe that this bill is quite elastic in many parts, i.e. there are certain segments of this law that allow the defence minister to prescribe certain conditions on his own. That is the case with Article 28 of this bill, which creates conditions for abuses and discrimination. This article leaves the possibility that the defence minister frees the service of military service to artists, scientific workers and top athletes, and also recruits them for his political party's campaign. This way there is discrimination, although this National Assembly meeting passed the Anti- Discrimination Act several months ago, and we will again hear from such top artists and athletes that there are citizens of higher and lower order in pre-election myths. I would also like to remind you that a member of the 28th draft law is in collegiate with Articles 19, 20, 21 and 32 of this bill, which define the conditions and the way persons are free from military obligations. The commission's evaluations can be capable of military training, temporary incapacitation, and incapacitation of military service. ''What category are top athletes, artists and scientific workers? In the end, how will the situation be defined when a scientific worker, a top athlete and an artist still want to serve a military deadline? That's not what a bill like this recognizes. That is why I call on you to accept this amendment in the voting day, because citizens of Serbia were artists, scientific workers, athletes, workers, peasants or doctors, the military obligation must be regulated under the same conditions. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27737	Anyone else want a word? If not, National MP Milan Skrbic has submitted to Article 28 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 29th amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 30 of the amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Rade. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 31 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljubisa Petkovic, who wants a word. The word is made by MP Ljubisa Petkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27738	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS Parliamentary Group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 31st position 1 and suggested that it be changed, and the new text would read: 'In the election of reserve officers listeners, the championship has recruits of military scholarships, recruits who have completed the appropriate school with better success. ''The proposer of this law on military, labour and material obligations in Article 31 has proposed that when selecting reserve officer listeners, priority is given to the 'youth-year recruits'. This definition is not very clear to me. What does it mean, junior year? If Serbia's military is referred to persons from their 19th to 27th years of age, what is the difference between a person from, say, 22 or 24 years of age? All recruits are young and there is no need to make any difference. According to your criteria, will the listener of the 21st-year-old reserve officer course, even with weaker grades, take precedence over a 24-year-old listener and complete the course with the highest grades? I'd say you came up with this attitude well designed to have room for manipulation and a choice of negative selection on the party line. I expect you to accept the SRS amendment to the position of the 1st member and to give priority to recruits, military scholarships and listeners who have had better success and completed the appropriate school. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27739	The word is made by Minister Dragan Sutanovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27740	I knew exactly that you were going to spoil the explanation. During the election of listeners for reserve officers, the championships have recruits, military scholarships, recruits who have been better able to complete the appropriate school and recruits of the younger year. For what? Because if they are younger, the system has them longer in reserve. This decision has nothing to do with daily policy, which you wanted to show, but it's strategically important if someone is 19, someone 27, eight years of difference in reserve would improve, we believe, our reserve composition. There's nothing here that's controversial. If someone is great and a little older, you can be sure that he will be enrolled too. Unfortunately, it's not as much of an interest as it looks to you right now.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27741	Anyone else want a word? If not, Parliament MP Konstantin Arsenovic submitted to Article 31 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Konstantin Arsenović.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27742	The Honorable Chairman and Mr. Minister, I have submitted several amendments, to say, a little more radical, aware that you will probably not accept them. My goal was to in some way contribute to establishing, through this law and the law on civil and labour and material obligations, the incentive measures, i.e. the detimulative measures for the service of the military deadline under arms. One of these amendments, I also suggested that the listeners of the reserve officers' course be spent on that course as a traineeship. In an explanation, it was given which is why the amendment is not accepted. It could also be considered to resolve this, if not now, at least in some way, by regulating other legal regulations. That would be a stimulating measure, because I don't see why a doctor who's in a spare officer's school can't do that while he's in that school and he's practically doing that job, that time counts as part of his internship time.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27743	Anyone else want a word? If not, MP Momir Markovic submitted to Article 32 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27744	I have a slight feeling, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, that the minister first looks at the head, so look who's the parliamentary group, so it doesn't matter down there, because when you look at the amendments that have been adopted, the amendments of the DS parliamentary group, signed by Vlatko Ratkovic, I see five of his amendments have been adopted. If not, then I really don't know why this amendment of mine hasn't been adopted. It is an amendment to Article 32, which says: "The service of the military term is not referred to as a recruit: 1) who is legally sentenced to prison, 2) to whom the educational measure has been applied, 3) against whom criminal proceedings have been committed. '" and so on. I asked for the entry as attitude one, which was deemed incompetent for military service. ''In an explanation of why my amendment was not adopted, it says: ''Amendman is not accepted because the matter under consideration is already regulated by Article 25(1). It's a bill of law. ''And Article 25 says, ''To serve the military term,' and so on. Well, I have not submitted an amendment to a member who says – who is referring to the service, but, precisely, who is not referring to the service. You see how little it took you to understand and accept the amendment. And here he says, in accordance with Article 19. In 19th, it was regulated that the recruiting committee assesses the ability of the recruits and how they are — capable of military service, temporarily incapable of military service, and incapacitated for military service. Minister, accept the amendment, sign this here - so he doesn't call incompetent for military service, and it'll look like the law to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27745	Anyone else want a word? If not, Parliamentarian Konstantin Arsenovic submitted to Article 33 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Konstantin Arsenović.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27746	This is about the right to serve a military term without a weapon, i.e. conditions under which this right cannot be exercised. Differences of conscience have been made to serve a military term in uniform without carrying a weapon and in relation to the objection of conscience to serve a military term in civil service. I don't see why these multiple differences were made. I think there's one objection to conscience, that there's no important reason, because the one in uniform, and he's not carrying a weapon, is essentially just, let me say, the convenience that's in the barracks. But I don't see any reason. I added that he could not exercise this right by having owned or owned a licence to carry or hold a weapon, 2) which directly carried out or carried out operations in the process of producing weapons, 3) which did or did security work and so on, that I did not read it. The bottom line is that these rights or restrictions should, better said, be evened in both law and law.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27747	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 33 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sladjan Mijaljevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's Messenger Sladjan Mijaljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27748	Paragraph 2 of Article 33 reads: “The right to serve a military term without a weapon cannot achieve a recruit that the military medical commission has assessed as fit for military service. “ The principled attitude of the SRS is to abolish civil service, of course, and that famous objection to conscience, or service without weapons. What is this conscience that can object that some or every man is obliged to protect or defend himself and his fellowman? There is no objection to conscience or any religious justification, from any official religion of the world, which can justify a man not being trained to defend himself and his fellowman, because in this way he committed or commits suicide on a delayed time or on a delayed deadline. When we enter a war situation and the enemy attacks you, you can't say - I have an objection to conscience, I'm not trained, please don't touch me. The man is obliged to protect himself and protect others, he is obliged to dress, he is obliged to learn to use both tools and weapons, he is required to learn to use both hack and shovel, but he is obliged to learn how to use and an ace of war, as well as how to use a rifle or any other weapon. We must protect these unfortunates that you have allowed to serve as civilians in some institutions, and according to the minister, in some direct war acts, dangers, they will be used to dig trenches or something like that. That's absurd, that's impossible. Such a man was placed on a fire line, to dig a trench for you, so he doesn't know what an Ash, an engineering tool, a hack, he was walking a poodle, he had the danger of having his poodle slip away, not to rip his arm out of his shoulder, and now he needs to give him a hack to dig up a trench for the firing position of a 122-millimeter hood. What are we talking about, people? Protect these unfortunates. Those who have gone to serve honorably, who are trained, have already learned something, to a greater or lesser extent, but know how to use both shovels and cannons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27749	Anyone else want a word? (No) The 33rd amendment was submitted by a group of 20 MPs of the Prosperity Group to Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27750	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first of all, I would like to state the general position of the Serbian Progressive Party when it comes to serving a military term without a weapon, that we are very unhappy with how it was settled in the law. It seems to me that it's gone into a few members and that there's a lot that's been unarranged in the law itself. What is written in the Constitution, of course, that it must be respected and necessary is the institute, we welcome the fact that the Constitution is respected, but I think that in law, when it comes to serving a military term without a weapon, it should be regulated so as to prevent any abuse, that the possible costs of such military service do not fall on the burden of taxpayers. So, through some accompanying laws, it makes it impossible for people who didn't serve military time with weapons, possibly, the next day, to be able in some state institutions to exercise some right, some employment that involves an elementary or more serious knowledge of the use and use of weapons. The amendment is also proposed with that objective. We are aware that he is partially and controversial in some way and that everyone has the right to change his mind within the next time frame of his life to realize that he was wrong when he decided to serve the military term, but that in the law he had to be separated in some way and to destabilise military service without weapons. I think it is the general position of the Serbian Progressive Party and of all the MPs. That's why we submitted this amendment. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27751	Anyone else want a word? (No) The 34th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Konstantin Arsenovic tabled an amendment proposing that a new member of 35a be added after article 35a. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Konstantin Arsenović.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27752	I'm going to use a part of the parliamentary group's time to explain this amendment. In principle, as a man, I am against serving a civil military term, but the Constitution has created this right, I cannot oppose the Constitution and I do not want to oppose the law or the Constitution. I think that we still have to do things fairer, fairer, than those people who will serve the military deadline, who tomorrow will be at war, perhaps, compared to those who will go into civil service, to circumcise grasses, etc., and tomorrow in war they can deal with war profit. We don't have any restrictions, I've even submitted an amendment that anyone who has been defined to serve a civilian deadline or without a weapon tomorrow has to suffer some consequences in terms of the rights that he can benefit from. Therefore, if he has exercised a certain right – to serve a civil service or another, then he cannot, again, fail to do so tomorrow. So if someone once doesn't carry a weapon, he has no right to wear it, he can never exercise that right again. In order to be more precise and clear, I will read the amendment: "A military official who served a military term without a weapon cannot be in a working relationship or establish working relations in the units and institutions of the Serbian Army, the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of the Interior, in institutions and institutions for the execution of criminal sanctions, legal persons registered for the protection and security of persons, things and objects registered for the production and transport of arms and ammunition and means and equipment for the needs of the military and police. A soldier who served a military term without a weapon cannot either claim to carry or hold a weapon. “ Therefore, there is no right after that. He thinks, simply, he's done it for the nine months and then he has all the rights as well as other citizens. We have one citizen who's going to die, who's going to spill blood, but this guy thinks he can do it his way and he can exercise every right like any other citizen. So there must be consequences. That's why I'm a little bitter about why this amendment is not accepted as a form of sanctions for those who serve a military term in or without a weapon. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27753	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 36 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljubisa Petkovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Ljubisa Petkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27754	On behalf of the SRS Parliamentary Group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 36(2) and suggested that the text be amended and that it reads: "A military official who has been released from military service under the conditions of the prescribed law be translated into the reserve composition of the Serbian Army towards school preparation and work experience, in the event of a direct war threat, declared an emergency or translated into civil protection. “ The difference between the proposed amendment, the SRS parliamentary group and the bill proposal is primarily that the bill states that a person who has been released from military service can be translated into the reserve composition of the Serbian Army, while the SRS considers that a person who is not capable of serving the military deadline can only be called to the reserve assembly of the Serbian Army in the event of a direct war danger or a declared emergency. It is not clear to me what a person in the Serbian Army's reserve system could do from 20 to 60 years of life in the reserve if the service of the military is released. As far as I am aware, in the present conditions, the release from military service assesses and gives results to the recruiting commission and is rightly achieved by military bonds, i.e. recruits for health reasons. I ask the minister, is it humane that a person who has been released from military service for health reasons, you weigh 40 years after military exercises and maneuvers and, in doing so, hundreds of thousands of militaryly qualified persons who will avoid serving a military term because of a false complaint of conscience do not call on obligation and debt to the country? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27755	National MP Natasa Jovanovic, who wants a word, submitted the amendment to article 37. Here you go. The word is Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27756	Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted this amendment for human reasons, and it would be quite a radical change in the law, because you, Mr. Minister, at the service of the military deadline, I believe, at least once gave voluntary blood and got two days of release, whether that, or twice, you saved four days, well you're not even now a low-blood man so that you can now as a citizen do it, but here is a way to stimulate soldiers to be part of human society because of the fact that it's ever bigger and, unfortunately, difficult to achieve the demand for blood in Serbia. That's why we have these actions and appeals from the Republic Bureau for transfusions and then we get the impression that we're not human society because when the periods of the summer months come, then it's increased, unfortunately because of the frequent accidents, mostly on the roads, the demand for blood so that all the clinical centres get into an extremely difficult situation, that even then some operations are being questioned. It's a good way to stimulate a soldier by making a contribution and giving blood to get those four, instead of so far, it's absolutely never changed, here, I've checked with all the colleagues who served the military deadline, it's always been two days, but now it's necessary to help society, first of all, the Republic Bureau of Transfusion, those who need it, it would be a good gesture to accept this amendment and that soldiers get four days, not counting that day of giving themselves. So far, we've had some more than degutant actions of self-proclaiming the humanity of some people at work. I haven't seen you in these videos, but Boris Tadic did, many other athletes who are close to the Democratic Party, who should first of all be affirmed in the discipline they are dealing with, not on that day, and always with Tadic. These soldiers will never be under any lens or front page of any newspaper, or breaking news in the RTS daily, but at least they will know that they have done some good for society and humane work and that, therefore, through this incentive they get the opportunity to go home early. The one who is willing to help Serbia's most vulnerable in this way is certainly someone who will serve the military term in the best possible way and most consciously. I don't see why you wouldn't accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27757	Members of the 37th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Šormaz, Jovan Palalic, Miroslav Petkovic, Milos Aligrudic, Aleksandar Pejcic and Zoran Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Alexander Pejcic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27758	I thank you, Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, Honored Ministers, Honorable Representatives of the Government, Ministry, a group of DSS MPs have tabled an amendment to Article 37 concerning the absence of soldiers, officers and officers. Given that this matter is regulated by a sub-region act, Mr. Minister, by the rule of Serbia's military service, we propose to withdraw this amendment and technically process it, and what it says in Serbia's Army Service Rules to taxively state in this basic law. I think it would be correct for the other soldiers, officers and officers to know what their rules are about these general private matters. Thank you. (Speaks from the site: we will perform only the technical order of the amendment. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27759	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) I would also ask the MPs, the applicants of the amendments and the representatives of the Government, that the consultations they are carrying out on the amendment be with the application for a word, so that I do not have to convince what the topic of the talks is. So no one wants to talk about the amendment to Article 37. Member of the 37th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Zoran Antic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) A group of 20 MPs of the Progress Serbia Group submitted to the 38th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27760	In Article 38, we have a new sanction when it comes to soldiers serving under arms. I just had a chance to talk about how dissatisfied we are with what ease the Ministry has decided to, in some way, without some additional legal regulations, leave soldiers who serve without weapons, in fact, not to tell myself, but also to a very suspicious legal regulation. In this Article 38, we have an attempt to impose an additional sanction for soldiers who serve a military term with weapons, which includes a ban on leaving the barracks for 15 days. So, on the one hand, we have for those who serve without weapons a lot of liberal regulations and legal procedures, and that applies to civil service of the military. In principle, I talked a little bit about it – that soldiers who serve, em, where, eight hours a day, they have, like, 13 days of regular leave, compared to soldiers who serve with weapons, where regular absences are 10 days, when soldiers who serve with weapons impose some additional sanctions. I believe that if one rule applies to soldiers with weapons, it must also apply to those who are in civilian service of the military term. If sanctions are tightened on this side, they must be polished on the other side. I don't think these two laws, when it comes to sanctions, are in line. That is why we have submitted the amendment as a parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27761	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) If not on Article 38 of the amendment, with correction, MP Vlatko Ratkovic, who, with correction, accepted the amendment, submitted. The Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. National MP Vlatko Ratkovic wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27762	Thank you, Madam Vice President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, Article 38. The bill norms the possibility to impose a disciplinary measure prohibiting exit from a barracks or another military facility, in paragraph 1, and in paragraph 2, requires that infringements of the military disciplines for which the measure is imposed by the President of the Republic, and on the proposal of the defence minister. I've been adjudicating to this member, but for reasons of termological consistency. Namely, I noticed that the proposal for a law on the Serbian Army barat and uses a term – a ban on distance from special rooms in a military facility. I think it's better termically correct that we have one consistent situation in these two laws. So for these reasons, I repeat, I have submitted this amendment, not changing the essence of the proposed solution. As an implication of this amendment to Article 38, I have submitted an amendment to Article 46. This is about the termological alignment of this disciplinary measure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27763	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 40 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27764	Given that what's in article 40 has a lot to do with what's in Article 28, I have to tell you that there is a good solution in Article 28, because the conditions under which the military deadlines are served by recruits, so now: scientific workers, athletes, artists, etc. However, in article 40, I think you made one mistake, because the participant in this process of delaying his departure for military service is, in practice, the competent ministry, and serving the military term is an individual obligation of a natural person. The natural person is not a participant in the process, but allegedly a competent ministry that submits a proposal to the defence ministry to postpone by a year. I'm not getting into these three situations you listed. I think that's where one big mistake was made. I have to tell you, it's not a good solution to this amendment either. If you keep this, then the competent ministry, it's probably three ministries, cultures and arts, sports and sciences, they'd have to have their internal criteria based on which to identify themselves. These criteria are already in place by the institutes: Olympic Alliance, Sports Alliances, Artistic Associations, etc. Why am I paying attention to this? Because this solution is the starting point in the first position where you say - the competent ministry is launching a procedure with the second ministry. Excuse me, please, it's a correspondence between two competent state authorities. And where's the individual? It's his right to delay any reference to military service. Don't tell me about the big interests now. Big interests are in the competition, not just the team. Excuse me, please. Another thing, read a little bit in your archives, this solution from Article 38 paragraph 1 point 5 is my 1980 solution when I won the administrative dispute of the Army. My solution! I received the JNA Army in 1980 in a administrative dispute, because on the same day I had to report for work and for military service, and the regulations did not exist, some regulation of the time of Nikola Ljubicic was applied. I served, as I didn't, served the Army, but on half the military deadline came to me the Supreme Court ruling that I wasn't obliged to report for military service, because they were justified reasons why they had to postpone my arrival for military service. Yeah, well, I'm one of the few people who won the Army in the dispute. But six months passed the army and then the colonel told me - son, finish this and get rid of this obligation, where you're going back. I want to explain to you that you have to go into detail to predict. You lost an individual here. You've lost your face, you've lost your sight of the recruits, you've lost sight of the ministry. Now you tell me, which is why, for example, the competent sports minister is going to assess why this football player who plays in the team is important, and it's not important that he plays for "Star," I'm rooting for "Star," I love Serbia. Or because we have a situation, though, is not an example because women, these mailman volleyball players, well, it's important our interest that they participate as a team in that league. What? Okay, I took it and I said it wasn't a good example. Somewhere are sports clubs of the state's interest, why just a team or a part of the World Cup and so on. I wish we had someone in the Champions' League, so we should put someone on hold for the military term, get them to push that season, make them good results. It's the interest of this people. That's the interest of both the Ministry and the State, the affirmation of the state, at the very least. And here, you didn't even show up at the sports club, or that top-notch athlete, top-notch artist, top-notch scientist. There's a whole other area with scientists, so I don't open it. But don't spoil a good solution in article 28. It's a good solution in Article 28! I wish we were able to tie research to the military, as some major developed countries do. I'm glad you're working. You have my support.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27765	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) A group of 20 MPs of the Progress Serbia Group submitted to the 40th amendment. The word has been given by MP Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27766	As you said, the Progress Group submitted this amendment to Serbia, and I believe that this amendment was indeed acceptable to the Ministry, (but unfortunately very little amendment has been accepted) because it only explains the already discretionary right, which was previously established, the minister and the ministry to eventually delay the service of the military to scientific workers, top athletes, people of culture who have a weight for the Republic itself. What we are different from the Ministry and what is the essence of our proposal is that the Ministry undertakes that within a reasonable period of time, we have proposed a period of eight days from the receipt of that request, with some commission within the Ministry, to decide on that request. It seems quite understandable to us. It's not in the bill. We are convinced, we of the SNS, that this is one of the shortcomings in this member and in this institute. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27767	Thank you. National MP Nikola Savic submitted to the 41st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) A group of 20 MPs of the Progress Serbia Group submitted to the 41st amendment. No one's answering for a word. The 41st Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 42nd amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. The People's Messenger Mirko Munjic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27768	In Article 42, I asked that, at the reasoned request of scientific institutes, sports or cultural organisations, military service to a scientific worker, researcher, then, top athlete and member of the Serbian team or artist can be suspended. The government's explanation says: "Amendman is not accepted because the competent ministry needs to verify whether a soldier for whom a military deadline is sought belongs to the category of soldiers of scientific worker, researcher, top athlete and artist. '"It's actually the same as what we're looking for, only you say it needs another ministry to determine, and we're asking you to do it. Why? Now I'm going to explain to you that you should do it. First, you know that, a scientific worker, and especially a top athlete, you've seen them these days and at Maracana Stadium, for example, if this top athlete, a football player, happens to go to military service tomorrow, say, in May of the month, assuming, in June, the World Cup in Africa, where we've achieved participation, so why do you need verification by another ministry to know that it's a top athlete and that it's a footballer who's a member of Serbia's team, and that such top athletes should be interrupted by a military deadline. Is that supposed to confirm it to you by any other ministry or do you know it yourself? It simply shortens and simplifies the procedure, and all of the reasons for your ministry to verify it, to allow it, to interrupt the military deadline. You don't need these top-notch artists, and especially top-notch athletes to serve you just for painting on the balcony, here, in front of the City Assembly. Do something for them! Shorten the process and allow them to stop serving the military during the World Cup. I think there's every reason to accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27769	The word has a minister, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27770	What's the problem here, Mr. Saviæu, is that what the last name was, excuse me, Lightning? If by chance we had put in place that I was deciding who is a top athlete, a top artist or a top researcher, you would say in principle today that I am in conflict of interest, because there is a categorization done by the ministries responsible for you, to say, the Ministry of Sports, the Ministry of Culture and so on. In order to avoid that criticism, which you would be giving us, almost certain, and I know you, I see that you would, we have now said that it is done in the Ministry of Sports, the Ministry of Science, or already some kind of scientist, and in the Ministry of Culture, and then when they give us categorization we no longer have any reason to interfere, to suspect, to bring questions, simply, we know what it is, they are paid to do that kind of thing, and not us. Otherwise, in what way could I categorize prominent estradic artists, or prominent actors, or prominent painters or prominent directors? Believe me, no one in the Ministry is in charge of doing this. So, the only wish is so you don't say it. Otherwise, objectively, do you think it would be good if I could do it? Then you would blame me, whoever does not serve the Army, you would say, "It will be at party gatherings tomorrow." Is that right? Fair enough, you'd say that, I know. So that's the only reason. You have one degree more control than you suggest, and we like to have control. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27771	Thank you. Mirko Lightning, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27772	I'm just glad, Mr. Minister, that we met this time, officially, even though you didn't know my last name, but well, next time you might know. It's true that we would generally be against you doing it. That's right! But we wouldn't mind if your ministry did. First of all, it would be extremely short-circuited. It goes through, Minister, the World Cup, while some ministry determines and delivers to you that he is a top athlete! There goes the World Cup, we may not have Kuzmanovic, we won't have one of those good guys at the World Cup! Accept this amendment, I think there's all the reasons.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27773	Thank you. The 42nd amendment was submitted by a group of 20 MPs from the Prosperity Group of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 44th Amendment, with correction, was submitted by a group of 20 MPs of the Prosperity Group, Serbia. The word is Mr. Mico Rogovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27774	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, in article 44, is a clause that determines that the time spent by a student of the Military Academy in a study at the Military Academy, after a certain period, counts as time translated into military service, says in the draft of this law that it is six months, and the SNS Group proposes that it be 12 months with the amendment. When I was in the 1980s at the Military Academy, I have reason to explain this to you, in that first year of the Military Academy, theoretical knowledge and knowledge are acquired, and from the part of the articles from general military education, the period spent at the Military Academy cannot be identified with the period of six months of military service. That's why this amendment is addressed to you, and I think it would really be logical for someone who, after the first year of the Military Academy, has served every day to be accounted for as a military term, and not for someone who is six months later, for these reasons I'm telling you, and who are present and now at the Military Academy, to be determined by such a fact, that's what the officers and generals know. What's the problem with article 44 besides this request? This is what the Law on the Army regulates – that a student of the Military Academy calls cadet, formerly a pietate, now cadet, and that this law, in a set of defence laws, uses the same term as a student of the Military Academy. So this discrepancy in the name should be changed, because it's really the same matter, that's Article 44, so the time that the student... All right, thanks.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27775	I'm sorry, just to clear this misunderstanding. So the government accepted the amendment, with the correction. It is the amendment of a group of 20 MPs of the Prosperity Group to Serbia, article 44, and reads: "The time spent by the cadet of the Military Academy in the study at the Military Academy, after the first six months, is considered to be time (in days) spent in military service." That amendment was accepted by the government. Thank you. The 45th amendment, with a correction, was filed by MP Konstantin Arsenovic. Mr. Arsenović has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27776	It is an amendment that regulates the obligations of military service which recruits are released, so, among other things, as referred to in Article 45, I have suggested that recruits who are in a permanent working relationship abroad be classified in that category. Afterwards, I suggested adding that this would be arranged closer – "The recruit who has been released from the obligation to serve the military term" (on this basis) "based on item 1 of point 8) is required to buy out military service. The amount of purchases from military service depending on the professional training is determined by the government, on a proposal from the defence minister. The competent authority of the Ministry of Defence shall adopt a solution within 30 days to regulate the obligations of the recruit, the manner and period of payment of the ransom and the status of the person following the purchase of the service of the military term. Closer provisions on the arrangements for the purchase of military service shall be adopted by the Ministry of Defence. ''First of all, this is not some newspaper, it is present in some EU countries, and I think that if one such amendment would be accepted, it would contribute significantly to resolving the problem of these young people abroad. Let me remind you, according to some of my records, about 10,000 young men give up Serbian citizenship. It's time and I think this is a chance to solve this problem. Is this the right measure? This ransom can be symbolic, it can be arranged in some way, but I think it's logical and necessary that we bind that youth to this country and not drive them away, just because he has to come to serve a military term of six months or nine months, and then he loses his existence and doesn't know where he's going to come back. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27777	Thank you, too. The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27778	This is a very serious topic that was raised by this amendment, and in fact it concerns a serious analysis of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia under which the property discrimination is prohibited in article 21. If individuals were to be able, for whatever reason, to buy out a military deadline, we would bring them into an unfortunate or uninvited position, or the discriminatory position of those who do not have the opportunity to buy out a military term. You said there are several EU countries in which there is this principle of buying out the military term. I would like you to tell me in which countries it exists, so let's look at their legislation and try to find a similar example, but the Constitution is very limited on this matter, although it was an idea, and mine, to find a way for people to buy out a military deadline and for that money to pay for a professional member of the Serbian Army who would do this better. However, the Constitution excludes the possibility of this kind of discrimination, because then practically children, whether abroad or not, who have the possibility, or young people who have the possibility of their parents paying for their military time, would be in a better position than those who do not, and we would be in a situation that only those who want to do so, or those who do not have money, would be very bad. But I'd like you to tell us in which countries there is this possibility of making payments.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27779	Mr. Konstantin Arsenović has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27780	Mr. Minister, I'll try to get you that information, but I still have a little disagreement with you. I see that the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment, with correction, is legally possible, so that argument under the Constitution, I think that, a little bit, I should say, is an opportunity to defend the non-acceptation of the amendment. But anyway, I'll try to get you this information.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27781	Thank you. National MPs Dragan Šormaz and Jovan Palalic, Miroslav Petkovic, Milos Aligrudic, Aleksandar Pejcic and Zoran Nikolic submitted together to the 46th amendment. The word has been made by the People's MP Alexander Pejcic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27782	I would like to thank Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, honourable ministers, representatives of the Government, namely, a group of DSS MPs have tabled an amendment to Article 46, i.e. erasing point 4) which reads: 'In the service of the military term, time does not count: in support of the disciplinary measure of banning exit from a barracks or another military facility which the military elder is responsible for, according to regulations in this military discipline, pronounced for a total duration of more than two days. ''We got here and an explanation of the government, which is, I would like to read it for the sake of the truth and for the sake of the citizens of Serbia, so ''Amendment is not accepted because the disciplinary measure under consideration, in addition to the preventive character, contains also the consequence of the fact that the time at the maintenance of this disciplinary measure does not count in military service, because the person to whom this measure is expressed does not carry out the tasks and tasks as other soldiers in the unit while maintaining this measure. ''In fact, we are for eradicating this point, for one simple reason, since we don't see how an elder can isolate a soldier who is disciplined, and it enters his military term, and I would also ask you and your colleagues here, who are present, in what way can an elder isolate a soldier who is in the barracks and is not in prison? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27783	Mr. Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27784	It's very delicate and very serious. I'll just give you an example, we currently have, if I'm not mistaken, 10 or 11 bases around the Administrative Line with Kosovo and Metohija, no matter what the number of centres of connection and can happen, let's say, that the weather conditions are such that a few days can't get to those centres of connection or specifically to these bases due to weather conditions. In order to allow that base to work and that someone who committed a crime or that crime, after all, we need to find the possibility to isolate it. We can't make detention units everywhere, it doesn't even make sense, and then we've introduced the law that there's this possibility as an excuse if there's something that would be a threat to the safety of other soldiers. It will, very precisely, be regulated by our sublegal acts in which it will be executed.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27785	Mr. Shormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27786	I've been listening to the minister's argument, now we're calling for bases on the administrative line, but it's a little illogical, this is punishment, so it says in the law, which is pronounced – disciplinary measure. It is likely that underlaws are already known, or the rules of service, why someone gives the measure – the ban on going to town, because this is the point. I'm sure there are closing measures. We know that there are closing measures for seven days, more days. It's logical, that's what we said, and it always supports it, if someone gets seven days in custody, seven days longer in the Army. Please. That's the way it's supposed to But two days out of town, why not give him two days' detention? What about those who serve in Subotica or Belgrade, and then it doesn't count for two days. He's grounded, he doesn't go out into town, and that's a punishment for who's a soldier. Those who served the Army know that. Those who work in hospitals or at 988 – for them it is easy, but those who have served the Army know, when it is forbidden to enter, it is a ban to go into the city. Why is he staying in the military unit for two days, doing all the work he's doing as well as the other soldier? It doesn't make sense to me. It's not closed, it doesn't say it's closed anywhere. It says he's not allowed out of town. If he's only banned from going out for two days, then I don't see why he'd have an extended military deadline. He can still clean the stairs, wash, be punished in another way, be more fire and so forth. There's as much as you want. Why is his two-day deadline extended? I'm not talking about the administrative line, I'm talking about how this can be used... The army's being served by young boys. The energy needs to be stalled. Anything can happen. Otherwise, President, this is from the time of the Parliament Club, just to let you know. At the same time, I won't answer again, you saw that we didn't participate much in the debate, because we already said in the principle debate that we support this law on military and defence, they are good, the law on military, labour and material obligations is even a step forward, as well as on civil service. Tomorrow, when we get to the next two laws, then we'll be a little more active, about peacekeeping missions and multinational forces, about the VBA, the VOA, then we'll get more involved in this debate. I mean, there was another amendment, maybe we weren't well answered, maybe we should have been told – the military still wants to have access to animals that aren't just official, because we're right, as Mrs. Vojić-Markovic explained, the DSS MP. It is known that the Ministry of Health is responsible for this and in some cases the Ministry of Agriculture, but this is the solution left. It's only logical since it's clearly written that it's a penalty for a ban on going into town, if that punishment is not isolated. He's just banned from the city. If he were in custody, we'd agree with you, but he's not in custody. He's not allowed out, so he can continue to serve, he can be on guard, he can clean the circle, he can do anything, he can go to training. I don't see why his military deadline would be extended.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27787	Member of the 46th amendment was submitted by MP Konstantin Arsenovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 46 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vlatko Ratkovic. The government has accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. National MP Ljubisa Petkovic submitted to the 46th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27788	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS Parliamentary Group, I have tabled an amendment to Article 46(1) point 4). In order for Serbian citizens to be more clear about what this is about, I must first point out that this member of the bill regulates issues related to times that don't matter to a soldier, which is on a regular military service. In the proposal for a law on military, labour and material obligations in Article 46, paragraph 1 reads the following: ''In the service of the military term no account', and then I read point ''4) the time at which the discipline of the ban on exit from the barracks or other military facility, which the military elder is responsible for, according to the regulations on military discipline, pronounced for a total duration of more than two days. "Citizens of Serbia, it is up to you to assess how DS stimulates the recruiting staff to decide on military service. The bill promoter did not clearly distinguish what is a ban on getting out of a barracks or another military facility, and what is a prison. The ban on leaving the barracks may be if, for example, he fell asleep and did not appear on the review if he returned to the barracks under the fact that he was alcohol and was punished by an elder by a ban on leaving the barracks for, say, a month. Will such a soldier, who has a strict elder, accumulate double military service? Contrary to soldiers, bonds serving military time in the barracks and under arms, persons who would replace the military with civil service have no one to order a ban on leaving the barracks or prison sentence. The SRS suggests that point 4) is – ''a time at which a soldier is disciplined and spent in prison for more than three days. ''I suggest you correct the injustice and accept this amendment. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27789	Mr. Dragan Shormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27790	Just now, I would remind you of a member and in 38th of that law, the view says: ''Infringing military disciplines for which the prohibition of exit from a barracks or another military facility is imposed, as well as the procedure for expressing the disciplinary measure of banning exit from a barracks or another military facility, by means of an act closer to the President of the Republic, on the proposal of the Minister of Defence. '"All of this you can do closer and know exactly what it's about. It's completely illogical for a man who gets a ban on going into town to be punished by an extension of the military term for those 12, even writing here for 15 days, and he, the man, in the barracks. Then put him in custody, not to do all 15 days, he's forbidden to leave the barracks. Everything he has to do - do, and it's 15 days longer in the Army. And the one that works at 988, it doesn't matter, it's easy for him, and he gets the money.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27791	Members of the 47th amendment were submitted by MP Konstantin Arsenovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Arsenović.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27792	This is also one of those amendments that gives some newspaper in terms of stimulating the measure. I suggested that a soldier who served his military time with a weapon - spends his time serving the military time on the job. It would be one of the significant stimulating measures, in my opinion, that young people opt for military service under arms. The explanation given on my proposal is, in my opinion, not valid, I think that this law can regulate, this would be significant and, in the end, I don't see any reason why they really serve the state and in some ways they need to be delayed through that work experience.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27793	Thank you, Mr. Arsenovic. National MP Milan Avramovic submitted to the 47th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27794	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, first I'd like to know who was giving answers to these amendments to the MPs, especially who wrote the explanation? Some arguments really have nothing to do with the amendments, and then it would be small and discreet to consider reasons or to conduct a discussion after that. But, I wish, in order not to waste my time, my amendment refers to special rights based on the service of a military time-limit with weapons, in which I ask that a soldier who serves the military time-limits in accordance with this law be provided with an addendum to the monetary incomes provided for in Article 91. The Law on the Serbian Army. The proposal states: 'A soldier who serves the military time limit according to this law' (with weapons) ''The addition to the monetary incomes referred to in Article 91 shall be provided. The Law on the Serbian Army. ''It should also be taken into account that there are no special rights in this bill for persons serving a military period without a weapon, as there is, metaphorically in Article 67(2), which, more specifically, parts of these two types of military taxpayers, I will read, in the end, Article 67 paragraph 2, which says, 'A soldier at the service of a military term with or without weapons shall be the cost of travel in the use of regular and reward leave' and so on. If there is a termological difference not to abuse this if the soldier is in the military service with or without weapons, we certainly agree that within the military time, all monetary incomes are in accordance with Article 91. The Army Act. Since this law provides that only women who have expressed their desire to serve a military term can serve a military term, then, religious persons of recognised religious communities in the Republic of Serbia, persons with limited capacity, I believe, and on behalf of the SRS, that this category of soldiers should also be provided for monetary incomes in accordance with Article 91. The Military Act, so that there is no doubt that those who do not serve a military deadline with weapons have financial problems during military service.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27795	National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 47th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27796	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I'm asking you to follow me well, and I'm not from Chačka, Cacak is beautiful, as well as our entire country, but I've seen that you're trying to understand the principles of the SRS, but you haven't quite mastered it enough, which is why I'm just asking you to follow me. When my colleague Munjic submitted an amendment to Article 42, and asked the Ministry of Defence to do so, and not another ministry, you said so, so that you would criticize me. No, you didn't understand the principle of the SRS. The defence ministry existed before Minister Dragan Sutanovac, and now, of course, there will be. I have submitted an amendment to Article 47(2) of this law, and we have not said that the Ministry of Defense has no right to make a decision regarding the special rights of soldiers serving with weapons. Otherwise, let me remind you, according to us members of the SRS, the rights of recruits and military persons are general and special, special, for us above all, military service is a right, and only then a military obligation. It was established by law. But there's a special right to cash compensation, and just so it's not an individual, it's not a minister, it's a defense ministry. If you listened carefully, Mr. Minister, from now on, you will learn one principle of the SRS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27797	The 47th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. I'd just like to let you know, before I give my word to Mr. Maric, that we're on direct transmission by 17.50 p.m., yet, practically, one speaker can speak, so I suggest we finish today at 17.50 p.m. and tomorrow at 10.00 p.m. to continue our work. We have a direct transmission, at the time our anthem is intonated, a significant sports event begins. Here you go, Mr. Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27798	I'm sorry, how much longer do I have to do on television? I will take this opportunity to point out the fact that in certain legal solutions and in my overall policy, you, in a direct and indirect manner, are insulting the Serbian military tradition and the fluids of the Liberation Wars. The result of this policy is the fact that on October 20th and the arrival in Serbia of the president of brother Russia, Mr Dmitri Medvedev, we welcome with Serbia's capital, without the names of Russian generals. In order for the shame you have made to be the smaller SRS Committee Group in the Belgrade City Assembly to submit a proposal to the Commission for monuments and names of streets and cities and squares, to return names with the names of Russian generals to the Belgrade streets. I will use this time to read the proposal – ''based on Article 10. Decisions establishing the name of the street and squares in the territory of the city of Belgrade are being submitted to the initiative to change the name of the street South Bulevar – the street of the Red Army, the street Resavska, the name of General Ždanova, the street of North Bulevar, the name in – the street of Marshall Tolbuhina. Explanation – The United Unit of the Red Army and the People's Liberation Army of Yugoslavia suffered a severe defeat in the Belgrade operation to the German army group. Belgrade's operation, namely the Belgrade offensive, is one of the biggest and most significant battles in the Balkans in World War II. The operation, which lasted from 12 October to 20 October 1944, was part of the large operational plan of the 3rd Ukrainian Front of the Red Army and the People's Liberation Army of Yugoslavia. The United units have freed Belgrade and major parts of Serbia in this offensive. '"
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-14-0.u27799	Mr. Maric, and time, and the content is absolutely out of line with the agenda. Let me just say it's a game, it's a handball, Serbia-Greece. We'll continue tomorrow at 10:00. Thank you. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the First Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 114 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the O.R., I ask Members to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 92 MPs are present in the hall and there are working conditions. Mr. Todorovic, here you go, according to the Rules of Procedure.
