ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-25-0.u31488	Dear People's MPs, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is in line with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, Article 44, whose chairman I am, discussed the proposal for the Statute of the AP Vojvodina, which was submitted to the National Assembly by the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina. The session was attended by representatives of professors Dr Dragoslav Petrovic and Dr Tamas Korhec, the province's secretary for regulations, administration and national minorities, who submitted the opening presentation. In accordance with Article 44 of the Treaty on the The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, in the procedure of giving consent to the National Assembly of the Constitutional Affairs Committee, held at a session held on 18 November 2009, as you know, established a proposal for a decision to give prior consent to the proposal for the Statute of the AP Vojvodina, which submitted to the National Assembly for consideration and adoption. That proposal has two members. Article 1 The proposal for a Decision of the National Assembly is given prior consent to the proposal for the Statute of the AP Vojvodina, which was established by the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina on 14 October 2008, with legal and technical corrections to the draft Statutes, which was established by the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina on 7 November 2009. The Constitutional Affairs Committee also proposed to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia that this decision be taken by emergency procedure, in order to ensure the smooth work of the AP Vojvodina Authority and to allow a decision on the declaration of the Statute of the AP Vojvodina in the assembly of the AP Vojvodina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-25-0.u31489	The People's MP, Ms. Radeta, wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-25-0.u31490	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I want to repeat something I said yesterday. At the session of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, I am in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and with the right of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to grant me an exception to the opinion on the proposal for the Statute of the AP Vojvodina. I'm going to quote that part again where I said out loud and clear, "I want to say, "I want to draw out an opinion on one and another proposal." In his report, the Constitutional Affairs Committee only provided information that I and my other colleagues had issued an opinion only on the law we discussed yesterday. It is true that we were not present until the end of that session, but I do want to do so and I ask that the chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Mrs Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, answers why my wish and my request to exclude my opinion have been ignored. There are indeed too many violations of the Rules of Procedure these days, and it is already becoming intolerable and inadmissible. I don't understand what was the reason, Mrs. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, that you went over this fact? Did you maybe not see what you signed, whether it was a service mistake, that I don't believe? I ask you most nicely to answer me in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and as chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs here, and you can, in front of Parliament, say, yes, you have taken your opinion and you have the right to use five minutes in accordance with the Rules of Procedure to speak about why you have excluded your opinion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-25-0.u31491	National MPs, the Rules of Procedure have not been injured or used by a member of the 100th and the right to receive a word in accordance with the Rules of Procedure because you can get the word only to speak of the violation of the Rules of Procedure which occurred directly during the session at which you are looking for the word. So I warn you against saying that you do not allow yourself the right to violate the Rules of Procedure, expecting it to be tolerated because you consider freedom of use of words and violation of the Rules of Procedure. Violation of the Rules of Procedure is the reason and basis for sentence. Since you have accused the National Assembly practically of not holding a session in accordance with the Rules of Procedure because it does not have your own opinion, then I am informing you of a business orderly course in any way and at any time each MP has the right to have an opinion on any committee in which he is a member. When the debate on the case is over, on the agenda point, the decision, the bill's proposal, whatever the subject of the committee's work is, then the board president asks if anyone is giving an opinion, how many MPs are in favour, how much is against and how much is abstention. Such a business orderly vote is passed on during the plenary session and that is the only way for your name or any MP who sets out an opinion to be right under the Rules of Procedure to get the word to speak of an eloquent opinion. You can't single out an opinion on two points at the beginning, you can't single out someone else's opinion, it's the same thing, and you can't ask that the Rules of Procedure has been broken if the chairman of the Constitutional Affairs Committee has not warned you that you are violating the Rules of Procedure at the session of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. National MP Aleksandar Martinovic wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-25-0.u31492	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, article 87 has been injured. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-25-0.u31493	National MP, article 87 does not refer to the course of the session. Please take a closer look at the first and second positions of Article 87 and, if you wish to exercise your right under Article 100(1), to use this right in accordance with all the provisions of Article 100(1). The People's MP, Ms. Radeta, wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1). National MP Aleksandra Martinovic, I warn you that you are violating the Rules of Procedure by obtaining rude gestures and rude expressions from the post. This is a violation of Article 104. I warn you not to act like one and not to force me to give you any warning measures. The People's Parliament of the Witch of Radeta. Here you go. (Alexander Martinovic: Where are your representatives of the Vojvodina Assembly?) What's this? It's like you're a birdie. You're breaking the Rules of Procedure by throwing them out of place. (Alexander Martinovic: You are not ashamed! )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-25-0.u31494	Mrs. Comic, you had just violated Article 27, paragraph 1 of the 4th indent, which says that the president of the National Assembly, I spoke to Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, who is in the O.R., that she is obliged to take care of the timely and coordinated work of the working bodies.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-25-0.u31495	People's MPs, please stop breaking the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. You can't, by obtaining a word based on article 100, address anyone other than the chairman. So, I ask you to comply with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, which tell you exactly how you can get the word and how you explain the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Go ahead, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-25-0.u31496	So you violated Article 27. Article 1th indent 4, which says - that the president of the National Assembly is concerned about the timely and coordinated work of the working bodies of the National Assembly. That means, I was just talking about the work of one of the working bodies, it's the Committee on Constitutional Affairs.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-25-0.u31497	The Members of Parliament, the violation of the Rules of Procedure, the right to receive a word and speak about the violation of the Rules of Procedure in Rule 100 clearly states that it refers to an injury committed during this session. You cannot get the word, abuse this right, disrespect the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and talk about the course of the session on the second working body, whether the other working body has a session today or in the previous days, it can do so on that working body. Does the rapporteur of the Legislative Committee, MP Vlatko Ratkovic, want a word? The People's MP, the Prophet of Radet, wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-25-0.u31498	Mrs. Komic, the basis of my report is Article 79, his fourth position. You've just paraphrased something that doesn't say anything, explained when a MP at the Committee's session can...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-25-0.u31499	People's MPs, I can't more clearly explain to you that you are persistently violating the Rules of Procedure, misusing the right to a word. This is the last warning before the measure is spoken. Article 79, final position, does not apply to the course of the session. So now, either you want to deliberately violate the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, to demean the work of this session and to violate the reputation of the National Assembly or I have to help you, in accordance with Article 27, and to direct you to the services of the Assembly, the Secretary General, the Administrative and Legislative Committee, to help you explain how you can use Article 100. Would you like to talk again about hurting the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-25-0.u31500	Mrs. Komic, I think you have now seriously injured Article 104, addressing me in this way, that you will tell someone to guide me, to interpret me any member of this Rules of Procedure. I warn you that you have now violated Rule 104, and I also ask you to, in accordance with Article 27, and the point that you are taking care of the application of the Rules of Procedure, you say, I have read this Rules of Procedure several times, precisely because you have been here for a long time to express the warning measures to the MPs. I'm obviously not writing enough and I'm not a good lawyer to read to me where it says that the chairman can give a warning measure. Please don't, because of these young people who are just learning to be lawyers, to realize that we here, who are long graduate lawyers, have a long legal experience, that we can't read the Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-25-0.u31501	During the explanation, as it is now, because there is no breach of Article 104, and by practice and what I consider to be custody of Article 27 and the application of Article 27, I remind and warn the MPs that a breach of the Rules of Procedure has been made and that it is not repeated. I do not consider the spirit of parliamentaryism and do not consider it a contribution to a good atmosphere to the strict application of the Rules of Procedure. If the Rules of Procedure were strictly strict, your first announcement would give you the first warning, and based on your second announcement, you'd get a second warning, and based on your third announcement, you'd be taken from your word, and now you'd be away from the session. It's no use to anyone. As I have warned the MPs so far, because I have a lot of understanding that some of the provisions are being distracted from my mind, I believe that the task of the chairman is to remind, first by warning, the content of a provision that must not be violated. Thank you. I see I have your support, as usual, that's what I expected. National MP Milos Aligrudic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-25-0.u31502	On the violation of article 27, which is done by your party, the chairman, by misappropriating the rights given to you by the Rules of Procedure when it comes to the way you conduct the session, as you often draw attention to MPs to some time abuse their rights, using certain provisions of the Rules of Procedure to report for the word, so you do some of the times, as you do now, so instead of warning or measures given to the Members of Parliament, it is the greatest punishment for us to listen to your burdens on which, in my opinion, you do not have the right, because they are directly abuse of your rights within the meaning of Article 27. Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-25-0.u31503	People's MP, please bring your argument in line with the rules of the Rules of Procedure. And I refer you to the Secretary-General and the Service of the Assembly, the Administrative and Legislative Committee, who will help you see what the presidency's obligations are, to give an explanation, and I ask you to refrain from your personal qualifications and experiences. The explanations I give can always be asked to make the National Assembly known about your sighting of the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Does the rapporteur of the Legislative Committee, MP Vlatko Ratkovic, chairman of the Committee, want a word? No, I don't. ) Did MP Jovan Palalic, who, at the session of the Legislative Committee, issue an opinion, want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Jovan Palalic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-25-0.u31504	The Honorable President, the President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, respected fellow students, is today ahead of us with the proposal for the Statute of the AP Vojvodina, which was in front of the National Assembly, here, more than a year after it was adopted in the assembly of the AP Vojvodina. This is a totally counter-constitutional act. This is an act that seriously violates the unity of the Republic of Serbia, and certainly its consequences for both Serbia and the Serbian people will be devastating. I want to talk here about the provisions of this statute that are completely contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, although the representatives of the authorities have sworn that everything that is written in the Constitution here has been applied. It is no accident that we are discussing such an act, which seriously raises ties between the AP Vojvodina and the rest of Serbia, on November 25th, when 91 years ago the people of those parts decided to join the Kingdom of Serbia. On the very same day, we are discussing an act in which each member is completely contrary to the spirit of the Constitution that has guaranteed territorial integrity, and Serbia's unity, and the right to province autonomy and the right to local self-government. Already in Article 1, paragraph 1, this statute is completely contrary to the Constitution. He defines Vojvodina as an autonomous province of citizens and citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, fellow students, who have probably passed the Constitutional Law, in Article 1. The constitution says the Republic of Serbia is the state of the Serbian people and of all citizens living in it. Are these provisions of the Constitution suspended in the space of the AP Duke? Whether in the area of the AP Vojvodina, which we will see through other members where the concepts of national communities are introduced, the Serbian people who, by definition, are here in the Constitution, the Republic of Serbia is his country, becoming one of several peoples, and all of this is clouded by this definition of citizens and citizens. In that Article 1. The Vojvodina is defined as a region, which does not exist as a legal concept. The AP Vojvodina territory is defined in geographical terms that do not exist in the Constitution, such as Bacak, Banat and Srem. We listened here yesterday to explanations even on the Legislative Committee; it is a declarative norm, it does not exist in the Constitution, where the territory of the AP Vojvodina defines the Law on the Territorial Organisation of the Republic of Serbia. Article 6, as I said, defines all the national communities living in the AP Vojvodina, and Serbs, as the people defined in Article 1, in such a way that Serbia is the state of the Serbian people, are only one of the national communities. The Vojvodina gets its capital. We've been listening to stories these days, fog, whether it's the capital, whether it's the main administrative center. The title above Article 10 says – the capital of the AP Vojvodina and we through Novi Sad already see slagobic billboards, where it is celebrated that Novi Sad is the capital. The assets of the AP Vojvodina should be defined by a special law, but no, it has already been defined in Article 11. I would ask the President of the National Assembly, who is here as rapporteur, to give us answers to these questions. We have no one else to get them from. Tamaš Korhec is gone, Dragoslav Petrovic is gone. I think the president of the National Assembly should respond to all these contradictions to this proposal of the Statute. Interregional co-operation, it is said to be realised in line with the foreign policy of the Republic of Serbia, but certainly who should control it, he is not here, and that is the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Official languages and letters – applying the Latin letter of the Serbian language. Please find that in the Constitution. Where does the Latin letter of the Serbian language say? Funding - national community advice. All that is certainly the opposite of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia here you define and create some new identity in Vojvodina through symbols and through the institutions that have been introduced here in the Statute. Please answer this question and this debate will certainly be both serious and deep. I call on all MPs to understand the historical importance of the state of Serbia of this debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-25-0.u31505	Do the presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups want the word? People's MP, Free Maras, advertises a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-25-0.u31506	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have come to the address of my predecessor, Mr Palalic. Article 104. Madam Chairman, in his speech, he said that the statute was devastating, separatist, anti-constitutional. Like Evey, I live in Vojvodina. We're not separatists, nor do we think the statutes are devastating. The statute is in the interest of citizens and citizens of Vojvodina. I heard a lot of things here yesterday. You asked us to count how we would vote, to vote publicly, to know who voted for the statute. Let me tell you, you write it down freely – and Free Maras, and Marashi, and my Panici, and my godmothers Rapajici, Grbovići, you can write everything down, Negomir. We are citizens and citizens of the Vojvodina. The Constitution follows our statutes. He's not a separatist. There's the guilt of the ruling majority who let her travel for 14 months, so she'll give you the creamworth to talk about it for 14 months and discuss the story. Madam Chairman, please, such malicious structures that we have just heard insult both this House and us coming from Vojvodina and most of the citizens living in Vojvodina, please take care of it and not allow such terms to be used anymore. Even though they are not representatives of the duchy assembly here, there are many of us here who are from Vojvodina who insult this, and I believe that it offends those who watch this broadcast.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-25-0.u31507	There's no breach of Article 104. The content of the presentation of MP Jovan Palalic was on the verge of being in accordance with all that the Rules of Procedure prescribed, but that he violated... Please don't throw it away. The fact that you have information about whether or not there is a ton in direct transmission has no effect on my obligations to Article 100. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Either you will be reminded of the rules of our conduct prescribed by the Rules of Procedure or I will really obey you and by applying the penalties to ensure order in the session of the National Assembly. National MP Jovan Palalic used words that were on the edge, but if I thought he had broken any member, I would have warned him. I can ask all MPs to think carefully about the responsibility of the public word. Every MP is responsible for what is said. If anyone breaks the rules, they will be warned, and they will be warned. This did not happen in the case of MP Jovan Palalic, so there is no injury. Do any of the other applicants want to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure? National MP Ivan Andric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-25-0.u31508	At first, I'd just like to say that there's something wrong with the electronic system, but it's not a topic. Article 27 and Article 101. What Mr. Maras said, you failed to comply with the request and with what is the general interest and the Assembly, as well as any citizen of Serbia. If the debate on the statute is allowed to take place on the subject of division, so that those who are in favour of the statute are secessionists and independents or I do not know what words are used, and those who are against the patriots, then the outcome of that vote is not important. Please, at the end of that debate, we will have two opposing groups, and exactly the way this statute came after a year in the Serbian Parliament was all that the ruling majority had done in connection with this statute was going to create two groups. No serious debate, no serious or unserious conversation, I'm not making arguments about those who are against the statutes. Nowhere has been discussed properly. We continue to begin the session of the Assembly by discussing the statutes by allowing such a dictionary to be used to further deepen relations or groups or even our society. As a result, we saw well during the 1990s. You don't even have the right under Article 27 to ignore it. If you think that it is justified or as you have said “on the edge, ” then there is no reason to discuss it. The institutions of this state, the Legislative Committee, the Vojvodina Assembly, said it was not so. This results in your obligation to prevent people who will vote in favour of this statute or citizens who support the adoption of this statute. You simply have no right to continue any way to promote divisions in our society.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-25-0.u31509	Article 101 can't be the subject of an injury by defining the right to replication. In his third position, he said that a decision on who gets the replica and under what conditions the chairman makes. I listen very carefully to the MPs. If the MP had mentioned the political party group personally, and offended the adjectives of the statutes, then he would have been warned, either by a parliamentary group or by one who was directly offended by what MP Jovan Palalic thinks his right to free opinion would have been given the opportunity in replication. I do not have other options, and therefore I ask all Members of Parliament to make very carefully and in accordance with the rules of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly an explanation of their political and parliamentary views on the item of the agenda in progress, and the item of the agenda that is under way is the Proposal for a decision to confirm the statutes. Anyone else want to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure? National MP Milos Aligrudic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-25-0.u31510	I think he's a injured member of 104. Rules of Procedure. The way the LDP MPs spoke to the National Assembly points to that, and in part, or to a slightly larger extent, rather, I will agree with the part of your presentation as chairman in response to their advertising of the Rules of Procedure's injuries in the part where you say there is actually no injury to which they point. However, I cannot agree with the way you react on your part that would have to protect the interest in this home within the meaning of Article 104 – it is inalienable to criticise and reasoned attacks on government proposals or proposals that the government supports, whether it is an act to be confirmed in the National Assembly, whether it is a bill. The qualifications used on this occasion cannot be estimated on your part to be on some side or I don't know what. These are arguments that are given and qualifications given in a reasoned debate in the National Assembly and we are protected as MPs with our immunity, not only in terms of criminal persecution, which is a constitutional provision, but we are also protected for the freedom of words we speak here. If we qualify someone as a secessionist or a separatist in terms of how he made a proposal for an act, we're trying to explain it. It's our right. It is the right of another to challenge it and that is the essence of parliamentary debate. Someone who believes that the right of MPs to a parliamentary debate, however bitter it may be, is a direct attack on the Serbian Parliament within the meaning of Article 104. Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-25-0.u31511	National MP, there is no violation of Article 104, nor in the explanation of the MPs who indicated that a member of 104 was injured by the exposure of MP Jovan Palalic. The proposal on the agenda is a proposal from the Constitutional Committee of the National Assembly, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs of the National Assembly of the RS. The proposal on the agenda is the Proposal for a decision to give consent to the Statute of the AP Vojvodina. So it's not about the government's proposal, it's about a proposal from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Please don't throw it away. By looking at the stenogram, you will see that whenever it comes to government proposals, MPs have the right to criticise, which I agree with, I just remind you that we are not currently discussing the government's proposal. We are currently discussing the proposal of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, and the proposal for an act sent to us by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is called the Proposal for a decision to confirm the statutes of the AP Vojvodina. As for compliance with our Rules of Procedure, I listen carefully to everyone's discussions and every time someone breaks, they will be warned. If he does not cease to break, he will be given a measure of warning, the first, the second, and the confiscation of words, and the distance from the session.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-25-0.u31512	It's a business thing. Our words were misread. I answered for myself, I suppose Mr. Marash did, too. It is not our intention, the chairman, at no time was to in any way forbid anyone from having a debate in this assembly. Our arguments were just against it. Our main observation is that this proposal has not been sufficiently debated, neither in this assembly, and therefore, in our opinion, there has been this kind of atmosphere where we are discussing this bill. Also, I don't think the question of insult is a personal matter that anyone has the right to assess whether or not it is. A lot of MPs here are from Vojvodina, a lot of MPs have relatives, a secessionist label, we have experience where it led and what possible consequences. That's why no one has the right, not to make arguments here, I guess this congregation does, but it doesn't have the right to label and spread hatred for someone who has a different opinion. Our main objection to you is that you must not allow such a debate. This isn't about democracy. This is about, at the very least, jeopardizing security not us here, we'll manage, but there are family members, there are friends, there are members of our parties. The LDP is not a secessionist party and the LDP will vote for this statute. Please, on behalf of the LDP, don't let them call us that. The chairman's responsibility is even greater because if you don't react, and we keep telling you that you need a reaction, you indirectly force us to defend ourselves, and that's the opposite of democracy. It's not our responsibility. I ask you to allow a normal debate on the draft statutes, to allow us all to cross arguments and at the same time not to allow any labels to be nice to any of the MPs or any of the politicians representing either opinion. Otherwise, this is not a democratic institution.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-25-0.u31513	National MP Jovan Palalic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-25-0.u31514	Right on the line. The Honorable Chairman, dear colleague Maras, here in the National Assembly, the highest home, we are discussing our view of how autonomy should be arranged in Vojvodina. You have your policy and you think the bill of statutes is in accordance with the Constitution. In my presentation, I said, and I will repeat, that the draft statute is anti-constitutional and that opposition to the statutes will have devastating consequences for the state. That's what I said in my presentation. It's our sighting of this statute. We have the right to say that he is not in conformity with the Constitution and we have the right to say that this is not the autonomy of the Vojvodina as prescribed in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, and that such a adopted statute will produce according to the state unity of the Republic of Slovenia, according to its institutions, according to its legal order and its state bodies throughout the territory of RS, serious and negative consequences. In that sense, the best solution is to withdraw this statute from the congregation procedure. But in the course of the day, we will surely hear more arguments that will contribute to this. You have your policy. Legally, it's the right to take it out. Yesterday you said a little autonomy was given here in this bill of statutes. We said that what was given was not in accordance with the Constitution and that is our legitimate right. He's against the constitution. We're going to open proceedings before the Constitutional Court. In every way possible, we're going to want to take down this act.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-25-0.u31515	National MP, you did not specify which member of the Rules of Procedure was injured, nor did you give an explanation of the injury, so I now warn you that this is a violation of article 100 and that I am obliged to give you a warning. I'm warning you, it doesn't seem like it anymore.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-25-0.u31516	Mrs. Komic, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have reported in accordance with Article 104. In fact, our democratic right is not a right that allows us absolute freedom that is not limited to anything and I guess that's why there is a Rules of Procedure. We can agree to continue to devise both the Vojvodina and the Vojvodina, and the right of people to influence their lives, which are significantly broader than the Vojvodina autonomy, by participating in such an irresponsible session in the way it was started yesterday and continued today. The representatives of the duchy parliament had to sit here, and this was to be made possible by inviting them and thus showing respect for one institution. They're not here. All right. There is no one on behalf of the promoter who will defend the decision to confirm the statutes and we are forced here or to agree to a language that was not first used yesterday or repeated today, but a language that has been used and used for generations in this unfortunate country, leaving behind terrible consequences. That is why we cannot reconcile with the ambition that today someone here in the Assembly is looking at Novi Sad or here counting on the assembly benches of a new Djukanovic, Tudjman, Kucana and scaring Serbia's society the way he did in the past without ever taking responsibility for the consequences of that policy. The DSS continues here today to defend Vojvodina as it defended Kosovo by yesterday may be their right, but it is our duty to oppose it. Let them seek protection from the Constitutional Court, but no one here shall be offended. There are no traitors, secessionists, foreign mercenaries in parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-25-0.u31517	Two minutes. There's no breach of Article 104. I repeat, in the first case, when the line of application of our Rules of Procedure is crossed, that I will intervene and that any MP who dares to personally insult an individual MP or a political party will be warned and then punished, because I agree, I think we all share that opinion, that the responsibility for the public word is enormous, and that we all have to take care of how much weight there is a public word spoken in our assembly. As for the objections to the representatives of the Vojvodina Assembly, they were called to the session and, in accordance with Article 27, taking care of the order at the session, and on the basis of Article 88(2), I remind you that the proposed agenda item for the Committee on Constitutional Affairs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has been approved. The chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, People's Parliament and National Assembly Speaker Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic is a representative of the proposing. Of course, representatives of the Vojvodina Assembly were invited, as I read at the opening session. There is no basis during this session, as the agenda item is scheduled, for any of the representatives of the Vojvodina Assembly to receive a word during the session. And it makes it clear to you that the Rules of Procedure prescribe which are the rights of the Proposer, who may be the Proposer, who may be the authorised representative. So I ask you to leave out these ambiguities, because this is a very clearly prescribed part of the procedure in the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Our agenda item is the Proposal for a decision to confirm the Statute of the AP Vojvodina. The proposal is proposed by the Constitutional Committee, the proposing representative, the chairman of the Constitutional Committee, Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic. Anyone else want to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure? The Kolundji hope? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-25-0.u31518	Dear Chairman, I call on members 101 and 104. I think the moment someone or those who delivered this act to this assembly accuses them of being separatists, when someone says we must call to vote to see who they are, then I think they're breaking not only the Rules of Procedure, but they're breaking both the law and the Constitution. So everyone has the right to talk about the act. Everyone has the right to indicate whether the act contains something that is not constitutional or something that is not in accordance with some other law, something that contains some kind of threat and danger that can lead to some consequences. But I ask you, in this debate, not to allow anyone to be addressed as someone who has intentional intentions or who is unconscious or irresponsible and who will lead to the cataclysmic consequences of their unwitting, deliberate or irresponsible actions, as indicated here. So, please, our debate is about this act and all the act contains is the subject of criticism, but it is contrary to the Rules of Procedure, contrary to the laws and the Constitution that people are called, that institutions are called, that they are marked as an enemy of this state. These are the behaviors of those who are doing this right now, we've really paid too much. I don't think we should ever allow such discussions in this home or in Serbia at all - to be held on any subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-25-0.u31519	Article 101 cannot be the subject of a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Article 104 will be applied just as it has so far - so, criticism on the subject and on the act. Every attack ad-hominem, any insult will be sanctioned under the rules of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I'm asking that we stick to it. If we need to look at the stenogram of what MP Jovan Palalic said, I will, but listening to him... Please don't throw away. There is another debate going through the procedural issues of getting the right to the word by the Rules of Procedure. I'm trying to take care of the order at the session and then I'm asking you to listen to me, if you're already asking to talk about what's responsible public word and freedom of speech according to the Rules of Procedure, and what's not, because it's the content of these interpretations of Article 104's injuries. So, I listened to MP John Palalic and I didn't hear he did an ad-homine attack for anyone. It has used difficult qualifications for the act and has used difficult qualifications for what it considers to be the content of an act called the Proposal for a Statute. I think we have made it clear that this will be carefully, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, not tolerated, but applied to the rules of the Rules of Procedure so as not to violate it. National MP Tomislav Nikolic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-25-0.u31520	Mrs. Komic, the dignity of the National Assembly has been injured because Mrs. Nada Kolundžija has warned us of the disastrous consequences of the conduct repeated in the National Assembly, and she thought of us who call this act separatist. So if I have the right to say that this act is separatist and if I prove it, at least to those people who believe me, by arguing in this House, what am I going to call the people who brought him and the people who support him? It's my judgment, it's my personal position and it's my right to my own court. I watched a press conference, such a euphoric Prime Minister, with Mr. Canko, and she found out all of Serbia -- that Mirko Cvetkovic and Nenad Canak agreed on the statutes. Now what can I say about the Prime Minister, who you say is not the legislator of these laws, if he brought to the press conference by Nenada Chanka, who just a few years ago, in front of the eyes of the entire world public, bravely as God gave him, smartly as God gave him -- he took down the RTS board from a television building in Vojvodina and cursed the mother of Serbia? If you have met all the demands of Nenada Chanka - you have met the separatist requirements. Let it remain recorded in history that I was a non-democracy, because I was against this statute, and may it remain recorded that you are the Democrats...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-25-0.u31521	National MP, as you were present at the debate that is under way, so that MPs get the right to speak, I think you could hear that any qualification and criticism of acts, the text of the proposal, in accordance with the rules of the Rules of Procedure, can. Qualifying, disqualifying people - can't, by the rules of our Rules of Procedure. Please refrain from it. Go on, you've got 15 seconds left.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-25-0.u31522	I'll never go on again when you so boldly and facelessly interfere with my discussion. So, please, pinch yourself every time you feel the need to talk. You'll be wise for a while, and after that...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-25-0.u31523	People's MP, you just violated Article 104, which prescribes the way we treat each other. He understands that each of us, at some point, gives in to emotions and forgets how emotions can threaten the right to a responsible and free public word. I warn you that the way you address is not in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. I ask you to refrain from doing so today so that we do not have to apply, your decisions, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure on Penalty for violation of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which regulates our conduct. (Tomislav Nikolic, from the post: I advertise the violation of the Rules of Procedure. ) National MP Milos Aligrudic wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-25-0.u31524	It is the way you conduct the session and the problem you are facing in the conduct of the session, within the meaning of Articles 27 and all provisions followed by Article 27 in that regard. Namely, the problem you are facing and do not deal with it, which is why I am very sorry, is an attempt by a number of MPs to attack the inalienable right of the Members of the People to discuss the matter that is on the agenda, the qualification of that matter. You see, when we qualify the bill's proposals, or the statutes or any other act, using even difficult terms, and this time with the basis, then the one who wrote it automatically or indirectly is qualified, because if I say for one act that has the characteristics of the separatist...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-25-0.u31525	People's MP, let me give you my instructions right away.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-25-0.u31526	I'm just asking you to finish the explanation.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-25-0.u31527	Let me give you an immediate instructions on the application of Article 104. (Milos Aligrudic, from the post: I did not say to apply Article 104) There is no tolerance for automatic qualification and disqualification. When dialogue is conducted, dialogue is conducted on the subject, not on ad-hominem. Any type of automatic qualification or disqualification of anyone will be sanctioned. That's what I've said twice, and I think this is the third time that's enough. Thank you. (Milos Aligrudić, from the post: Please finish the explanation.) ) You did not specify which member of the Rules of Procedure is injured and you abuse Article 100, because I apply Article 27 right during this debate to the last member. Thank you. The National MP, Aleksandra Jerkov, wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-25-0.u31528	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, MPs, Madam Chairman, during yesterday's debate, I have avoided including myself in this manner of discussion, since I think the entire atmosphere in which the debate is being held represents a sort of humiliation for the National Assembly, for the people of Vojvodina, for the ambassadors from Vojvodina, but also for those other MPs who come from other parts of Serbia. Because as it is said today that the citizens of Vojvodina are seeking to exercise their right to autonomy, so tomorrow they will talk about the aspirations of all Serbian citizens to exercise their right in their country. However, I must react to something Mr. Nikolic has just said. I don't think Serbia's citizens need to explain that Nenad Canak is not a separatist, I think that during his 20-year work they could see it, just as they don't need to explain that Mr Nikolic is a non-democracy, because during his 20-year work, citizens have been able to see it, and for the past year, it's not enough...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-25-0.u31529	People's MPs, this debate at the request of the right to a word by the Rules of Procedure is currently being conducted in order to make it clear that we will neither disqualify nor qualify people by any means. Please specify a member of the Rules of Procedure who has been injured.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-25-0.u31530	I'm reporting on the basis of replica rights, Article 101 of Item 3, as deputy...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-25-0.u31531	National MPs, replica law, Article 101 cannot be the subject of a breach of the Rules of Procedure. MP Cedomir Jovanovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-25-0.u31532	Mrs. Komic, member 104. I was very clear when I pointed to a truly unacceptable level in which today’s congregation debate was under way. Article 87 is very precise...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-25-0.u31533	People's MP, a member of 87 can't be the subject of an injury. Thank you. (Kedomir Jovanovic, from the post: I ask you to call the duchy representatives here. Did you invite them or not? ) National MP, please, with full understanding that all MPs want to use the right on the basis of article 100 in order to exchange views in a quick exchange of debate, that if you want to look at the stenogram, if you want to look at the stenogram of the beginning of the session. Representatives of the Vojvodina Assembly were invited to attend. The act is proposed by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The president of the Constitutional Affairs Committee, Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, is the representative. Representatives of the Vojvodina Assembly can attend, they can't get a word in. Therefore, in accordance with Article 87, all participants who are considered to be participants in the session are invited to attend a session and this is done, and that member cannot be injured during the current session of the National Assembly. National MP Aleksandar Martinovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-25-0.u31534	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a member of Article 100(4) has been injured. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Please, Mrs. Comic, listen to me. "The MP is obliged to state which member of this Rules of Procedure is injured by the actions of the National Assembly president, or the chairman, and to explain what the infringement consists of, by being able to speak for up to two minutes." You're here, Mrs. Comic, seducing the practice that as soon as a man hears, you turn off his microphone and...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-25-0.u31535	National MP, Member of the 100th has not been injured at any time and I ask you not to abuse your right, but you have been warned during this session, from Article 100. It's a violation of the Rules of Procedure. It's a demeaning of the National Assembly. It's showing lack of self-respect for this institution, except it's an attempt to promote ignorance of our own rules of our own work, and I'm asking you not to do it anymore. National MP Zoran Nikolic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-25-0.u31536	I'm calling in an article. 104 and 105. A long time has passed, and when it comes to a colleague, John Palalic, you gave him your word according to the Rules of Procedure, even though he appeared in a replica of what he had the right to do. I believe, since there have been a lot of reports, that you made that mistake, but you simply denied Mr. Palalic the right to the replica, and you gave him your word...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-25-0.u31537	National MP, the right to replica is the discretionary right of the chairman, not the subject of a breach of the Rules of Procedure. People's MP Marsh Slobodan wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-25-0.u31538	No, Madam Chairman, please give me the right to a replica since Mr. Palalic...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-25-0.u31539	You have no right to a replica. National MP Tomislav Nikolic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-25-0.u31540	I'm solidarity with the other MPs, and I will no longer communicate with you at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-25-0.u31541	National MP, after warning you have violated the provisions of Article 100 which prescribe you the way in which you must address the other participants in the session if you receive a word based on Article 100(1). I give you my first warning. People's MPs, Judita Popovic, wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-25-0.u31542	I'm referring to Article 104. Rules of Procedure. I believe that the dignity of the National Assembly has been violated by the chairman who runs this session, for the reason she misquoted Article 87. The Rules of Procedure, which he says, take part in the meetings of the National Assembly, alongside the MPs, so it is stated, etc., as well as other persons who are invited by the President of the National Assembly. So they're not attending, they're participating. If someone is involved, it means they're involved in the work. If he participates in the work, it means he gets a word and can discuss the subject on the agenda. Therefore, when you quoted this article 87. Rules of Procedure, you misread him by giving an answer to MP Cedomir Jovanovic, who insisted that the representatives of the Vojvodina parliament attend today's session. You said then - they can attend, but they can't get a word. This article indicates that they and how they can get the word because they can participate in the session.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-25-0.u31543	There's no breach of Article 104. I'm referring you to reading article 93. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly on who gets the word and which order during the session of the National Assembly, and I ask that we do not abuse the right under Article 100(1) and the right to replication. National MP Ivan Andric wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-25-0.u31544	Article 27, and I'm calling for Article 98. I call on the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to announce a break...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-25-0.u31545	National MP, article 98 cannot be broken. If you want to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure, you get your word on article 100. In order to get word from a member of the 100th, he must be injured, broken by a member. Article 98 can't be broken. Do any of the presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? National MP Susana Grubjesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-25-0.u31546	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Dear colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, the accuracy of the work has been calculated, and I will indicate that the Statute of Vojvodina has traveled 397 days from Novi Sad to Belgrade. When you consider that, you should not be surprised at the debate that took place yesterday in the congregation, both outside the congregation, and the way it began today. Because in this time, in the last 397 days, the statute has become a polygon for party bickering. I can't remember, let alone list and quote what anyone has said since the time of the adoption of the statutes in the District Assembly, but the general impression is that opponents of the statutes were louder than those who supported and supported this document. The adoption of the new Statute of the AP Vojvodina is not a question of any political will, but of a commitment arising from Article 10. The constitutional law, in which it is said - the newly elected Parliament of the AP Vojvodina is required to submit before adoption the proposal of the Statute of the AP Vojvodina to the National Assembly no later than 90 days from the date of its constitution. The authorities and services of the AP Vojvodina shall assume the competences provided for in the Constitution, the entry into force of the new Statute and the law governing matters of regional importance. Article 15. The constitutional law stipulates that by 31 December 2008, all other laws which do not comply with the Constitution, as well as the law which determines matters of regional importance, will be harmonised. The whole process of the adoption of the new Statute of Vojvodina and the threatening law was to be completed by the end of 2008, which, of course, was not done, in violation of the Constitutional Law and the issue of the adoption of the Vojvodina statutes was unnecessarily politicized, as we can see. The statute was at least declared by lawyers and experts in constitutional law, but there is probably no politician in Serbia who has not spoken his court, and with incredible ease, even the leaders of individual parties immediately declared the statute unconstitutional, and some statements would be ashamed of the average high school student. It is understood that these statements are not only the result of ignorance, but also the political attitude, because the statute is a political and legal act and is subject to various interpretations, from the most negative to the most positive. As it usually happens, the truth is somewhere in the middle. The position of Vojvodina today is a matter of conviction, the interest of individuals and political groups. I really think anyone can and should have an opinion, like it or not. For this reason, I cannot argue that by adopting the statutes, Vojvodina gets a minimum or maximum, but from this excess and imposed debate, I can conclude what I have already said, that this issue is maximumly politicised and that the parties' headquarters here in Belgrade have done everything possible to break the deadlines set by the Constitutional Law, and unfortunately it is not the first, and I am afraid for the last time, that the deadlines that we have set ourselves are completely disregarded. What do we see when we look at the statutes? Is this, as most of the opposition claims, a corpus separatum, is it created by the state of Vojvodina, according to a Serbian senator, who is, as we know, the entity of another state? Is the statute of the Dukean nation and the Dukean language? The answer is negative. In the background of all these accusations, the hard words they spell, which are far from the truth, is fear of another and different. Fear of decentralisation and regionalization. There are big eyes in fear, so many can see both the state in the country and the beginning of secession and Serbia's disintegration, because those old, good flossules on Serbia's disintegration, its tearing, separatism and similar political plantings of cowardly eggs are still functioning very well, so that there is a very easy and successful replacement of thesis. Only a little more hearing for the needs of the people of Vojvodina would spread these fears and a little less desire for all decisions, even if they were both banal and routine, to be made only in Belgrade and nowhere else. Of all the traditions we call upon, it is least mentioned decentralisation and regionalization, because whoever dares to talk and write about it immediately received the label of traitors or separatists. On the pillar of shame were all those who offered different and better solutions, and tradition shows that Serbia has always been a strong centralised state, that there has always been a strong central government in Serbia, and that others have been given a spoon, only if it has to. That the dominant course of political thought, since the time of the 1804 uprising, is the restoration of the state, not some region. But if we remain deaf and blind in the future, and silent in the increasing voices that come from other parts of Serbia for decentralisation and regionalisation, then I'm afraid we'll really come into a situation to worry about the fate of the country. Because if it took 397 days, a year and a month and a half for the statute to come from Novi Sad to Belgrade, to meet the constitutional obligation towards the AP Vojvodina, then I wonder, how many years, not to say a decade, will it take to recognize the needs of citizens from other parts of Serbia? Because, starting with the principle of equality and equality, these citizens must be given a chance for regional organisation, through which they use the right to self-government, so that they do not feel like second-class citizens in their own country. It is therefore in the interest of both the citizens of Belgrade and the citizens of central Serbia to defend this statute, as it affirms the idea of a regional and decentralised state arrangement and helps the announced reform at the national level, and in favour of the centralism of the threatened regions of Serbia. Who knows and understands Vojvodina's gene from the earliest days to today, knows that it has never questioned Serbia's statehood and its place in Serbia, but only centralist tendencies. In the whole process of adopting statutes and laws on determining the jurisdiction of parties G 17 plus was not even a braker, but also a savior, because there is no doubt for us that the unquestionable historical cultural, ethnical specialities led to the autonomy of Vojvodina. Every society, every country naturally rests on differences and smooth display of differences is an expression of freedom. Accepting these differences, as well as creating conditions for their institutional expressions, is a prerequisite for the free development and progress of society, as well as for avoiding conflicts in one society. Of course, this does not mean that the differences in society should go to the core of the integrity of the state, but it is the worst when we close our eyes to differences and when we insist on uniformity and unity in everything. As for the very text of the Statute, I must immediately say that I am sorry that Article 1, which has been amended by the AP Vojvodina as a multi-national, multi-cultural, multi-confessional, democratic European region. Here, the concept of the European region had a valuable connotation, which means it is a region that cultivates the development of civil society in line with the European value system. Unfortunately, someone in a party headquarters has apparently failed to call Vojvodina a European region, despite the fact that this member in this first version of the statute ended with the view that the AP of Vojvodina is an autonomous territorial community in the Republic of Serbia. Instead, in the amended Article 1 of the Statute, it is said – that the Vojvodina region in which multiculturalism, multi-confessionality and other European principles and values are traditionally nurtured. Vojvodina, to be reminded, is a member of the Brussels-based Assembly of the European Regions since 2002 and makes up one of the 300 European regions gathered in this organisation. So far, no case has been recorded that some region has become a state by membership in the Assembly of the European Regions or another organisation that gathers the regions. That is why I find it unfounded to worry about leaving in the statute a provision of Vojvodina – the European region, when it formally and essentially is. The Vojvodina is a European region of European Serbia. The charges at the expense of Article 9, which speaks of the symbols of the AP Vojvodina, where they are said to be – the symbols of the autonomous province are the flag and coat of arms, are also completely declassified, as not only do all regions of Europe have their features, but also have cities and municipalities in Serbia. Yesterday, my colleague Ivanji, speaking of the law on determining jurisdiction, mentioned the statutes of the city of Nis, which in Article 8 says – the city has its symbols, coat of arms and flag, whose appearance, content, use, method of acquisition is determined by a special regulation. Such features have the majority of Serbian cities and municipalities. What, then, would be a dispute if these features had an autonomous province? Comments concerning the capital or changes that followed in Article 10 of the Statute, it is an old dilemma whether Novi Sad is the capital of the AP Vojvodina or the main administrative center of the province, are more formal and symbolic than essential. Each European region has its own "capital", and the usual translation of that word is the capital. It is obvious that those who are not familiar with the foundations of the country's regional organisation believe that the capital is only one and that it is Belgrade. Finally, we're coming up with a member of the 17th Statute and the Vojvodina Academy of Sciences. Article 17 states: “The Vojvodian Academy of Sciences and Arts is established by the Parliament of the AP of Vojvodina by a provincial assembly decision, which determines its role, regulates its work and way of accomplishing it. ” Regional academias exist in many countries, both the federal ones, such as Germany and those regional ones, such as Italy, but also the unitary ones, such as France. In these countries, they are not considered destroyers of state unity, but rather, they, along with national accelerations, extend the beauty of scientific, artistic action. The remarks that the re-launching of VANU can be seen as a symbolic introduction to some creation of a new state and nation or a type of objection that Serbia is too small to have more than one academy are, in my opinion, very unfounded and at the level of those who, in their own time, even Jasu Tomic was declared a separatist. MEPs G17 plus, we have already said this several times, will vote in favour of the AP Vojvodina statute and the law on certification of jurisdiction, just as our party colleagues in the District Assembly did before us. We are voting out of the belief that this is only the first step towards real decentralisation and regionalisation of Serbia and that the Vojvodina Statute can serve as an example to other regions that political organisation and action and outside the central government are possible. For as no one else has said long ago to Napoleon the third – from a distance can be ruled, but only close to being able to manage well.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-25-0.u31547	The word is from MP Djuro Peric, authorised representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-25-0.u31548	The Honorable Madam Chairman, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is under serious criticism of the great delay in the procedure of adopting the Statute of the AP Vojvodina. A period of more than a year has expired in constant expectation of the adoption of a law laying down the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina on which it could yet be accessed to draft statutes. But what happened? The law was late, and the assembly of the AP Vojvodina, calling for a deadline to comply with the Constitution, passed a proposal for a statute instead of, betterover, putting a strong pressure on the Republic to pass before the law. The draft statute, which was passed, without the knowledge of the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina of the jurisdiction of the Vojvodina to be laid down by law, has prejudged some solutions that were contrary to the Constitution, however. Logically, this led to constant discussions and discussions in the public on what this act and this premature proposal of the Statute wanted to achieve. He even thinks it was all deliberately done, but I don't believe it and I doubt it was a tendency. I think this was more about poor coordination between the province and the Republic. The essence of the province's statute should be to operationalise the constitutional concept of provincial autonomy, not to correct it nor to build it up, as this statute has in some sense been done. Since it became evident that such a proposal for the Statute of the AP Vojvodina, as it was made, could hardly be accepted, had joined the Assembly of Vojvodina, so-called. The legal and technical order of the statutes. That definition amended some of the essential provisions of the Statutes, which proposed by the Executive Greater Vojvodina, and in particular the substantial amendments made to the six provisions proposed by the SPS to its amendments. In the opinion of the PUPS parliamentary group, these changes that have been accepted are not only legal-technical editorials of the text of the statutes, but they are also about the fundamental changes in the text which, in fact, caused the widest controversy in the public and created various confusions. Here are some of these changes in text, which show what it's about. Now we have a new text and content, which says that Vojvodina is an inalienable part of Serbia, instead of being an integral part of a unique, cultural, civilization, economic and geographical space of Central Europe. She did, actually, but it took a lot clearer to say and connect to what Mrs. Susanna was saying. That the province's parliamentary decisions will not have the power of the law, as provided for by the draft statutes, that Vojvodina can only conclude inter-regional and not international contracts, that it will not have the capital, but the main administrative centre, although I must point out again, is making some new gaps, so the title leaves - the capital, and the article talks about the main administrative centre. Personally, I don't think that's essential or element of autonomy, nor is it such an important question, because the Constitution of Serbia doesn't predict that, and also the people of Vojvodina don't have any special vision, although I agree with the fact that in the world it's called both in one way and in another. It is also important that the province will not be able to decide independently to change its own borders. I must stress that there are still some provisions of the statutes that are not exactly in line with the Constitution, which may in the future cause certain misunderstandings and misunderstandings. That's what I think, for example, he's a member of 6. The draft statutes are quite unnecessary and incorrect, as the issue of equality is precisely defined in Article 1. The Serbian Constitution, where it is said that the Republic of Serbia is the state of the Serbian people and all citizens living in it, based on the rule of law and social justice, the principles of civil democracy, human and minority rights and freedoms and membership of European principles and values. Article 33 states that the assembly of the AP Vojvodina is the highest institution of normative authorities in the AP Vojvodina, while Article 19 of the Statute lists all the general but individual acts, even declarations and resolutions that are more political acts, but I don't mind that. As for the rights of the AP Vojvodina Assembly to adopt an act on the establishment of the Vojvodina Development Bank in order to encourage the economic and social development of Vojvodina, there should be no problem, if the bank is more commercial than a state bank, which would directly interfere in the economic and social life of the province, should not play some kind of NBS. True, in Article 97(6). The whole banking system is in the jurisdiction of the Republic of Serbia, so this should be brought into line. In Article 28(2), paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: The draft Statute provides that the establishment of a permanent and mixed commission, drawn up by representatives of the authorities of the Republic and the authorities of the Republic and the authorities of the Republic of Vojvodina, may be proposed by the establishment of a legal, successful and uninterrupted exercise of operations under the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina. It is good thinking to improve the functioning of the province, but the question is whether a good solution is to create such a commission or a better solution, because it is known that commissions are not the happiest solutions when it comes to such issues. It seems to me that advocating the AP Vojvodina would be much more important and significant in law-trusted businesses, at least in some of them, such as agriculture, to exercise citizens' rights than whether, for example, Novi Sad is the capital or administrative centre. In my opinion, I find that not so important. The point is that this time is a serious warning of the fact that it is late in some form and form of regionalisation, and especially decentralisation throughout the Republic, because if it had happened, it could have been easy to avoid now some kind of asymmetricity in the functioning of the Republic, which will surely often cause unnecessary problems. The decentralisation of the Republic of Serbia should, in the opinion of the PUPS, be started and based on a strengthened and multi-stage local self-government, allowing the highest units of local self-government to be functionally connected, in order to realise projects that outweigh the economic potential of each of them. It would also be a way to speed up decentralisation at the province level, and also to make specific geographical continents within Vojvodina, Banat, Bacak and Srem, aphirmic and get some degree of competence, considering that they differ in many ways. The decentralisation process must address the issue of the functioning of some municipalities as soon as possible, as it is a worrying situation in most municipalities in southern Serbia, as well as in some of the eastern Serb municipalities. I would especially like to point out that not so rarely, some of the public figures from various spheres of life in Vojvodina can hear regrets of the 1974 autonomy, which was almost equal to the Republic at the time, so that Vojvodina and KIM were a constituent part of the Federation. Serbia was the case of sui generis, as representatives of the provinces in the Serbian Parliament participated in all decisions, which were in fact related to part of Serbia outside the province, and representatives of the republican authorities had no adequate decision-making rights in the provinces. At that time, the definition of Serbia outside the province, as a horror, was common, as Serbia will say. Seeking now from anyone to create such a province from the Constitution in 1974 means, in the view of the United Pensioners of Serbia party, in fact, to seek an independent state, not any province. Finally, the parliamentary group of the United Pensioners of Serbia hopes to further improve the text of the law establishing the mandate of the AP Vojvodina by adopting certain amendments and adequately harmonising the statutes, and will vote on the bill's proposal in the day of voting and give its consent to the statutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-25-0.u31549	The word is made by the People's Messenger Pastor Balint.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-25-0.u31550	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have been most persistently demanding since October last year that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia discuss the draft statutes of the AP Vojvodina and the draft law laying down the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina. I am very glad that the President of the National Assembly kept her word and that she interrupted the previous session, when the draft law on determining the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina arrived in the procedure, scheduled a new one and we have the opportunity to hold a debate on these very important proposals. I have no intention of responding now to all those accusations at the expense of those parties who sincerely demanded the adoption of statutes and jurisdiction laws. For the past 14 months, we have been constantly, day by day, seeking respect for the Constitution, seeking the adoption of statutes and jurisdiction laws, and I think it's all said. There is no need to respond to various accusations of secession, separatism, secession, etc. Instead, I would just like to say that I hope on November 30th that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, by a vast majority, will give its consent to the proposal for the Statute of the AP Vojvodina and adopt a bill on the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina. The President of the Executive Council of Vojvodina, Mr Bojan Pajtic, said on 14 October 2008, after the adoption of the draft statutes in the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina: Good morning, Vojvodina. I'm not fond of pathetic, but if Mr. Bojan Pajtic were there, he would surely say, "Good afternoon, Serbia. Instead, I just want to say that I hope that since 1 January 2010, the government of the AP Vojvodina and the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina will prove that it knows and is very effective to exercise those powers, which it will receive under the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the statutes of the AP Vojvodina and the law establishing the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-25-0.u31551	Does the word wish for MP Velimir Ilic or authorised representative of the NS parliamentary group? No, I don't. ) Then we go in order, from less to a larger parliamentary group. I ask the MPs, of course, at this time of the session, the MPs who are not currently in the O.R., and in order, I can get the word. National MP Cedomir Jovanovic said he would speak later. National MP Dusan Bajatovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-25-0.u31552	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I am sorry that some colleagues are very emotional and fierce, but still, in order to score daily-political points, discussed this statute. The situation is similar to yesterday's. I will also look back on some qualifications and labels, with one remark, not right now, but later, that we really need to make sure that we broadcast political signals from this assembly to the entire public of Serbia. I'm going to say what I said yesterday, that there's still a serious communication noise here. Those who watch this transmission, which is why we insist on it, in addition to political marketing, to let the public know in Serbia, they are still disabled. I am absolutely sure that qualifications, supported by some kind of emotion and loud political attitude, do not strengthen the arguments of those who are in favour, or those who are against acts that are on the agenda of this assembly. So, what was the political strategy of the SPS, and it's not new, but also other parties? I don't just want to take credit for it. Essentially, autonomy -- yes, state -- no. Autonomy that has no content and which cannot in practice be functional, it is pointless. That is why devising the powers of the AP Vojvodina, in fact, is mainly advocated by those who want unitaryly arranged Serbia, which I have nothing against, I believe that Serbia is a unitary state today, but there should be no decentralisation, no autonomy, no economic regionalisation of Serbia, no matter what problems Serbian society faces today, or even at the level of the locals. When you ask any president of the municipality, from any party, if he needs property, whether he wants municipal bills, whether he wants original incomes, whether he wants jurisdiction, and all for the sake of a better life of the people who set him up, chose to manage the resources, everyone will tell you - yes. When you look at European practice, when you look at well-resolved and unitary states well solved, then you'll see that by that maximum - which the snake bites, and the lizard needs to be afraid, we're afraid of these manifestation forms of possible statehood, so thanks to the amendments of the SPS, we've also taken down the capital, and Vojvodina as a European region, etc., but I've looked at it differently. When we submitted these amendments we wanted, in fact, to be consistent with the objections that were present in the public, to increase the political capacity of this document or these documents, to convince our other colleagues, the opponents, to try to adopt both the statutes and the law together. Why? Because as a result of the adoption of the new constitution and constitutional law, it was our obligation to have an open political issue, opened this way since 2000, hopefully, to this day, which is simply the issue of Vojvodina autonomy, simply taken off the agenda. Because this is how we establish a new quality and strengthen political stability in Serbia. It seems to me that we are more inclined to political solutions and to collect party points than we are ready to discuss seriously the serious, constitutionally imposed, political projects and programmes. There are a few things I want to evaluate when it comes to this statute. I don't know if anyone wanted to, by first bringing the statutes, to put pressure on the adoption of both laws and statutes, or who's already played a game, which means the legal-technical editorial and everything else. But I want to assess that it is good that this job is done and that it will essentially end where it belongs, in the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. If the basic quality of this act, apart from the fact that some of the things requested by the SPS have been corrected in the legal technical order, but to be clear, that the ruling majority who adopted this act did not want to do so would not have again passed the amendments to the SPS that we have submitted in the Vojvodina Assembly. So, around this has been achieved decently, in terms of the number of votes these two documents will receive, the majority in the Serbian Parliament. Therefore, by adopting these acts, we are also increasing the degree of political stability in Serbia. I want to evaluate one more thing, and later I'm going to try to prove it, and if it was autonomous or separatistic or otherwise qualified projects, they're defeated. They're not here. Maybe there was a intention. You know what, every debate about autonomy, and especially in socially tense societies, politically unstable, I don't want to qualify our country that way, can always go in two directions. to eliminate autonomy or to use autonomy for some kind of separation. It's about the measure of things. That is why we have abolished historical reasons, amendments to the SPS or technical repairs, for the existence of the autonomy of the Vojvodina. It exists on the basis of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and no different. It cannot exist in Serbia's political, state and economic, social, cultural system. So, just like that, with all the abundance of political diversity and the proposal that went with the adoption and the law, please, here we are talking about the transfer of jurisdiction, the law on determining the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina. What's important is, in a theoretical and practical sense, however you want, autonomy or region everywhere, it might not be good to even them out, in a world where they're well solved, where they're functional, they have a supervisor. It could be a congregation, it could be a governor, it could be a ministry or some other form, we have defined ourselves, when you read the law and the statute carefully, the supervisory of everything in the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina is the government of the Republic of Serbia. If we talk about constitutionality and unconstitutionalness, of course, it is legitimately the political right of anyone who contests these documents that, according to him, they may have these or those tendencies, but the final story of the constitutionality or unconstitution of this statute, as most colleagues have announced, which are against these acts, will be given by the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia. It'll be a final assessment. My question is how these same political parties will behave afterwards. Okay, we've got the political points, we've turned to our electoral body, we've been more or less scared or we haven't scared Serbia, some have tried to prove they're better Serbs or they're no better Serbs than some others, although I don't see the duchy Serbs worse than any other Serbs. For me, it's a question of the autonomy of the Duke's Serbian-Serbian issue, so I don't know who we'd be detached from. This statute was not written by national minorities, so that we had a problem with such things or similar things. I would never ignore the creation of Serbian intellectuals in a Latin letter, even though our official letter of Cyrillic and by the Constitution we all respect it. Just a few grades. If it was intended to be some kind of autonomous project, they were defeated here. There's no talking about returning to some new 1974. This job was completed by the Socialists in 1988 and no more going back to it. (Tomislav Nikolic, from the scene: They were Socialists. I very much appreciate your attitudes, Mr. Nikolic, and you were radicals when you already wanted to throw away. What is an inseparable part of Serbia cannot be any acts and no referendums excluded from the Republic of Serbia. So I don't see the fear of that referendum. As for 1974, I've already assessed it. I'm using a little guidance given by our leader, Ivica Dacic, to whom you honor that he wanted to make a day-to-day political point. When someone gets these powers, now I want to address us, the Dukes, first and foremost the Dukean administration of the present and future, it will be very important how these powers will be managed, or the possibilities. I hope that the duchy political elite will make good use of these, above all, of the developmental opportunities and that the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and any future government in Serbia, will be able to determine that out of 153 responsibilities, and over 100 are only transferred responsibilities, they should not take Vojvodina but also Vojvodina, and anyone who is able to be regionally organised, above all on economic principles, should be given more, because it is economically, culturally-politically, developmentally more efficient than centralism itself, who would otherwise not be able to solve the growing social tensions in our society. As for opening a representativeship somewhere, please pay attention that Vojvodina's representations anywhere, which should be in the function of economic development projects, can be opened exclusively with the consent of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Therefore, it is likely that it follows that they will not be able to be opened where someone comes to mind, but will be opened with the consent of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, where it has purpose. There was a big story about the duchy administrative districts. It has been numbered to be established in all district centres, where Serbia still operates today. I really don't think anyone's going to think of trying to organize Vojvodina's administrative districts any other way than the administrative arrangement of the Republic of Serbia when it comes to the environments. Another political assessment can be given that this project cannot be autonomous, because the story of property and the story of finance has yet to be opened. I don't see why fear of these things would be put forward. It is obvious that the Law on Public Property of the Republic of Serbia, as applies to all municipalities, as is the case for the city of Belgrade, will also apply to the AP Vojvodina. I personally think, when you read this very carefully, that as the property of the AP Vojvodina, only what is otherwise served at this time in the management of the authorities of the AP Vojvodina will be defined, it will be that it is not so much. Real decentralisation should follow by bringing these rights, these assets, and opportunities down to municipalities and cities in Serbia. So I see the right and consistent decentralisation of the Republic of Serbia, which will bring itself political stability, but also true development opportunities. What else could be said about the bill of statutes? The fact is, there's still the Duke Academy of Science and Arts here, and I'm afraid there's going to be a proper constitutional lawsuit, a complaint, what's it gonna be, so let's discuss it. As far as Novi Sad is concerned as the capital, I have to say there's this point here that's already being discussed. It is said Novi Sad is the main, so point, the administrative center of Vojvodina. He, by nature, is the administrative center of the province's authorities, who will perform or perform all the transferred and all the original competences. It also foresees a certain role of the province's authorities in local self-government, so I hope no one's idea, in a negative sense, may not be so, that Belgrade replaces Novi Sad. I hope that this process of decentralisation will go in a positive way, and that the manifest forms of something that could lead to the state will not be what we will continue to discuss. What was an additional remark about some kind of network of courts, or I don't know what, I really don't see that there are judicial, executive, legislative authorities here. If passing a judicial exam or a state exam, which can be imposed or organised by the province's authorities, something that leads to judicial or legislative authority, then I fear that our eyes are too big, even when our intentions are good and when we overcome the need to collect day-to-day political points. What you might really need to say is that there is no need to scare Serbia. All that is written in this statute and what is a positive practice in other countries of the world needs to be passed on to us. What it will look like in practice with us, whether it will really be separatism or it will be a developmental opportunity, people depend on the political elite of Serbia or the municipality, or the city or, in the extreme line, Vojvodina. How are you going to use these options? You can always use them good or bad, depending on people from us. We are the political elite of Serbia, we sitting in this parliament, those sitting in the duchy parliament, those who are representatives of our parties at the municipal or city level. There is no need to eliminate opportunities just because we can potentially fear their consequences. So, once again, I will say, the SPS-JS parliamentary group, and as I understand it, our PubS colleagues, will support this proposal of the AP Vojvodina Statute, or we will create conditions for this act to be adopted in the duchy assembly as it is now regulated and adopted.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-25-0.u31553	The word is by MP Cedomir Jovanovic, president of the LDP parliamentary group. (Tomislav Nikolic, from the place: Replica. You have no right to a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-25-0.u31554	Mrs. Komic, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, first of all, I want to express my dissatisfaction and to repeat again, first of all, because there are no representatives of the Vojvodina institutions, the Vojvodina Executive Council and the Vojvodina Assembly here. I will also say why – because I think that great idea of autonomy, which we understand as the right of man to influence his life, obliges us to draw some attention to that kind of politics that has highly compromised both the idea of statutes and the idea of a law on determining jurisdiction, which will be transferred from the republican level to the level of Vojvodina. Twice, politicians in the Vojvodina institutions humiliated the Serbian Parliament. The first time, without any consultation with parliament, they started a process that was clear in advance that they would be sentenced to failure, with the right to personal failures, but the idea of a responsiblely decorated province should not be defeated, and that was last October. No one addressed the Constitutional Affairs Committee and tried to find an answer to the Committee's very complicated political question, which had already been clearly asked at the time, because here at least it was about harmonising the statutes with the November 2006 Constitution, precisely because, in the meantime, the duchy Assembly forgot about the Constitution and in a whole series of issues it did not continue to act to bring itself or the majority that exists in the duchy assembly here in parliament does not do such a thing. The second humiliation of the Assembly is what we have attended in the last month, what is called legal-technical correction, editorials, etc. It was all just not a legal-technical alignment of one text. It was a question of essence. This policy is a measure of short wit, and that is why we needed representatives of such a policy here to talk to them about it, so let's say that, from our obligation to the Duchy and the Duchy, we vote for the Statute, and not because we agree to humiliate ourselves, as others do, when they explain how under the legal and technical correction it is possible to change the preamble of the statutes, to change the title of members of the statutes, how it is possible to play with Novi Sad as the main administrative center, a city that is the capital, which is not the main one. Well, it wasn't just done with parliament here, but it was done with some other institutions, and it's done with problematic grounds, in a society that's deeply divided and traumatized by fears that we don't just ignore, even though we're not at peace with them. How was it possible to agree on the Constitution, and it is impossible to agree on a statute? Those of us who were critics of the way the Constitution was adopted are particularly interested. Almost all parliamentary parties then showed understanding for the need for the country's constitutional definition. At the concept of this Constitution it was necessary to do the statute and I think it was done. In the end, it is likely that the Constitutional Court will have to be declared if someone initiates the initiative, but we do not see anything against the constitution in this statute. The problem of the proponents of the statutes, which of course is not the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, is essentially the duchy parliament, it is in fact that the ruling parties in Vojvodina have bypassed the agreements with other parties that are the opposition there, because they have a two-thirds majority, so they have opened a space for unargumented and unfounded criticism that has been destroying the idea of Vojvodina autonomy and the idea of further reforming our country for a year. When the first, second, third version of what the proposings call a statute is actually possible, there is only one conclusion: Novi Sad has fully withdrawn itself from the misunderstandings that he has produced in his unilateral decision, before the impotences that are present in Belgrade, the fears that exist in Belgrade and Vojvodina, and the withdrawal is not a good way to reform our society. That's why there's no one who's satisfied with this statute. They look for one satisfaction in empty symbols, because there is not much point in the interpretation that proves the correctness of one idea or victory of one concept over another, and those who criticise this statute no matter what it says only use the opportunities others have made possible for them to continue to fear in Serbia's politics. What were the key remarks, which are still present today in what the LDP wants to point to? First of all, citizens are excluded from that job. This statute would be stronger to support all those people who were disproved in Vojvodina, whom the state took away from rights and decided to live life for them. The circle of these people is much wider than the circle of voters of any party. They are equally dissatisfied with the feeling of helplessness and the SPS voters, and the SRS, and Nikolic's parties and LDP. Why citizens are excluded from the process of working on the Constitution itself i.e. The statute? Why was he running into phrases? Just because it covered up the absence of essence. For this reason, it was possible to insert into the first version of the statutes everything that is not in the real statute and does not belong to it. Why was part of Serbia provoked in this way? That's what we're interested in. If the SPS made peace with the DS in Belgrade, if everyone admitted that they had their own pain, if they each poured ashes and gave up part of themselves from the past, why can't that happen in Vojvodina? Who's the obstacle to that? Who invited Nikolic and Kostunica to make arrangements with them or radicals? If you don't invite someone to work, then he can only stand up to you. It's his legitimate right. But if you call him, and he doesn't respond, but he's opposed, and he could have been involved in it, then it's an irresponsible policy that citizens in this country can still understand. That's why you opened the space for Kostunica to pull those sheets across the bridges and sadly testify about the failure of himself, his party and his policy. We're worried about something else. Which does not have the necessary quality for the result, without which neither Vojvodina nor Serbia can become a well-organized society. And that's our common pain. How can it be when it comes from the Constitution? Those who brought the Constitution were divided in the meantime. The Constitution is now being called upon by those who, by force of opportunity to vote for the Constitution, for example, by the G17 and the Democratic Party, and precisely what stems from the Constitution as the law of Vojvodina, is being challenged by those who imposed the constitution on Serbia, which is the Radicals then and the Democratic Party of Serbia. So why don't we tell where the point is and point to the essence of the problem? It is not in the Vojvodina institutions either, it is not among the citizens and citizens of Vojvodina and the citizens of Serbia, but in the impotence and inability of the parties -- to change and lead the policy that must be led if the country wants to change its situation. That's a fact. We will support this last version of a legally, technically harmonised, corrected statute. But there will be a lot of dilemma in our society, which is denied for a responsible relationship, because someone has to turn to citizens and citizens so they can understand what it's really about. There's no government. She's gone again. There's no one from the Vojvodina Government or the Duke's Assembly. There's the president of parliament to defend the statute she didn't write. If he doesn't formally defend himself, Mrs. Comic, the statute, he's essentially defending himself. For if we keep silent, then only those who speak the language of the 1990s will hear. Of course it will not happen in Serbia what happened in the past, because citizens do not support such a thing, but this will be another missed opportunity. Instead of doing the job we were supposed to do today when all Eastern European societies began their journey to Europe, we will leave it for our children, when we reach the standard of the '80s in about 30 years. Furthermore, it would be good if those who wrote the statutes showed up and tried, say, to convince SANU. There's one part of her that we don't agree with, one that overly politicizes that institution. But in that academy, it's not just pirates. There's a perfectly reasonable world out there. Why no one consulted with SANU and through consultations with the Academy came to that conclusion, which, according to us, is the only one that is normal. In a country where half the population is technically illiterate, one regional academy of science and art is not a threat, it is a chance. If we don't explain to society that it's a chance, not a threat, if we keep quiet, society will listen to those who speak for us. Speaking of Novi Sad, I don't think those who wrote the statutes anymore, nor do those who live in Novi Sad know where they live. One draft statute was adopted in October last year, so the second draft statute was confirmed in the Vojvodina Parliament two or three weeks ago, so the third draft of the statutes arrived here before us in a assembly debate. Is it even important when you treat him like this or is Novi Sad a chip on that flea market, in which the Vojvodina Assembly has turned – for every single thing. For Mr Bajatovic, although there are no amendments to the statutes – adopted statutes, by a two-thirds majority. A year after that – they can still change. For Mr. Chanka's point, that it can still be interpreted somehow by the New Sad capital, and for the people of Novi Sad and for us here who need to make a decision that is reasonable – everything is clearly pointless. It's an insult to the New Now. It's an insult to the New Sad and by voting for the statutes we don't want to insult the Novosadians. What is our obligation in this congregation debate is to shed light on an unexposed page of our reality – what kind of state do we want, what state do we want to live in? If we have accepted that which we have established by the Constitution, why do those who are in debt not apply and respect it? If, in the meantime, it became clear, and can no longer be ignored, that Serbia is such an organised political fiction – that the constitution was a shoot-out in an empty fight for Kosovo, then why are we not working to create a normal country? Instead, we entered the office of the Vojvodina, so now we have to prove that Vojvodina is not a state in the state, when it is obvious – that Serbia is not a state. There are those of us who would like it to be of course, it's not controversial, because we see it the other way. None of us can say she's real, that she's real. It's a topic for the parties in the country. If we're talking about the right of the Vojvodina to affirm and develop its authentic interests, then it can't be a problem for anyone, because it's right that it stems from our personal right to do everything we can to make our lives as good as possible without jeopardizing another. How did we ever get into the field of secessionism, separatism? How are the trenches of each other's divisions being dug up again? Who's that Verbas to split from, Zrenjanin, Kikinda, Sombor? Who's the lucky ones gonna break off from? Where are they going to go? We'll have our visas lifted in a week. We better think who's going to live here when he's able to go where he wants and when he will, when he's able to go to Europe where there are 300 Vojvodinas and 300 capitals. How much do you think the Berliners feel humiliated because Berlin is not the capital, how many hit them, or how much New York has been denied for the fact that it's not the capital? Of course, that doesn't mean Belgrade shouldn't be. It would just be so much more important if we were to deal with the essence, and she stayed on the sidelines. We will not participate in that congregation discussion that will paint, paint, make up our reality, and give this statute the sense that it truly does not have. This statute is much more an expression of the impotence and compromise of a ruling coalition under very difficult circumstances, which is why we have an understanding for it than a confirmation of the strength of a reform policy. On the other hand, this statute is a poor excuse for an even poorer policy that today tries to survive on that concept where it was defeated ten years ago, and it will not succeed, however much we drag our banners around the bridges and call in the way they did in the 1990s. What we must do together is come out of this assembly debate with clear messages – that we will respect a different opinion, that we will accept the will of the majority in the Vojvodina Assembly, that we will help the duchy parties regionally to exist, and that those who operate in all Serbia and in the Vojvodina area have great support to understand that they have to be much more serious, and that is, above all, DS. You have set this statute upon us, and you who sit here in the congregation benches know very well. It's all headached by hasty. You didn't agree with anyone about it, and then we had to figure out a way to sort it out. You compromised your coalition partners who were loyal to you. The president of the Vojvodina Assembly has arrived in Jagodina. Egeresh also came to Markovic to teach him a lesson in Jagodina. The European region ended up in the nahiji and kept quiet. It's a picture of a policy that we can't agree to anymore and that we have to describe clearly first and then change it. People in Serbia need to know that Vojvodina and this statute do not in any way compromise or narrow down their rights. On the contrary, even such a bad statute and government law that didn't even defend it, only points to the inevitability of essential reforms, the comprehensive changes in society, in the organisation of our country, which has to stand in second terms, and the first plan to leave it to those who live in it. Millions have disappeared in the foundations of Serbia, and we don't know where its borders are today. Fifteen years after the French Revolution, we began to create our own country. Vojvodina has been autonomy for 170 years. Look at what she's like today, and look at the land that she's in. It's our duty and it's our duty. We apologize to those who, in May of last year, believed more in the idea of modern-organised Vojvodina and even more modern Serbia, but this is still an obstacle that has been overcome and I am sure that with the statute and the law, despite numerous weaknesses, the lives of people in Vojvodina will be easier and even if it will be easier to determine responsibility when something is not what it should be. Because of this willingness to take responsibility and those who have proposed the statute should have our understanding.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-25-0.u31555	National MP Tomislav Nikolic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-25-0.u31556	I can't do that right now because you didn't give it to me when I asked for the word "injure" of the Rules of Procedure, but you deliberately gave it to the next speaker. That hurt the Rules of Procedure, and I really don't want to talk to you about any injuries to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-25-0.u31557	People's MP, I warn you that you already have a warning measure, given for disregarding the rules of conduct during the session of all participants at the session. You asked for a replica, I said you had no right to a replica, and I gave my word to MP Cedomir Jovanovic. As far as the MP is concerned, you said, well, then I want to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure. You were injured by the Rules of Procedure when MP Cedomir Jovanovic finished his presentation. So, there is no harm in treating me as chairman, and I ask you to behave in your address to all the participants at the session in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure that apply to all of us. Now there's been a breach of the Rules of Procedure? National MP Tomislav Nikolic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-25-0.u31558	Mrs. Komic, you have violated the dignity of the National Assembly. You know, when I'm not asking you for advice, and you're giving it to me, I take it as a threat.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-25-0.u31559	People's MP, I don't give advice to you or anyone else here, I follow the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. For the second time, I warn you to comply with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and to specify a member of the Rules of Procedure who is injured and an explanation of the content of the infringement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-25-0.u31560	Before you interrupt me again, I say that dignity has been injured, Article 104, and I ask you not to warn me again how many warnings you have given me. It's none of your business, Mrs. Comic. You follow your rules or how you interpret the Rules of Procedure, but I did not assign you to strike me with the words you gave me. That's what I'm taking care of, and you don't need to warn me about, because that's the threat spoken to me. What else can you say - take away your words? That's a threat. Don't threaten me, I came to the National Assembly as a representative of the people, to say what I think, when you are in power and when someone else is in power. Don't threaten the people, there are at least 14,000 voters behind me. They all feel scared of your discussion now. I have not offended you, nor have I hurt you, nor have I yelled at you, nor have I said a bad word to you. I said I was interpreting what you said to me, and you broke my relationship with Gerdup right away. What am I supposed to yell at here without electricity? To get into the congregation and yell, even though Tesla must have invented that electricity so that everyone could talk without yelling. Please show some respect for the MPs, just a little bit. I promise you, when you are only a People's MP, if you succeed in entering parliament, no one will ever interrupt you. I guarantee you that now. I love listening to you talk, but I don't like being threatened, I don't like being prevented from speaking, I don't like the fact that in half of the sentence you interrupt anyone whose discussion you don't like. Try, please, to try behind what you call a member of the DS, to have your democratic commitment behind it. You're gonna interrupt me, but you're acting like a split personality. You force democracy, and here you conduct dictatorship. Sometimes I regret the absence of Mrs Dejanovic, who has taught you many bad things.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-25-0.u31561	National MP, in no part of the explanation of the breach of the Rules of Procedure, I have not injured Rule 104, and I refer you to the provisions of the Rules of Procedure which bind the Chairman, who is the only or only right to interrupt the MP as he speaks to warn or warn him of the breach of the Rules of Procedure he has done. With insight into the stenogram, you can read your own presentations and reactions to me as chairman of the word content. Here we all have to follow the rules and comply with the rules of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, and I do it every time, regardless of which one of the MPs wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure. In your explanation, you've estimated that you know which of the exhibits and the speakers I like or don't like, and that's a violation of the Rules of Procedure, because you can't possibly know that. I'm applying the Rules of Procedure, nothing more, nothing less. Thank you. Another breach of the Rules of Procedure? MP Tomislav Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-25-0.u31562	You have misinformed the National Assembly, Mrs. Komic, you have the custom, and that is why I will have to read a member of the Rules of Procedure you called upon when you found you have the right to interrupt me. It reads - no one can interrupt the speaker, nor warn him, except for the president of the National Assembly in the cases provided for in this Rules of Procedure, and not in cases where he violates the Rules of Procedure. So you're the one who said that you're assessing if I hurt the Rules of Procedure and you're interrupting me and you're taking my word for it. No, no one has authorized you to judge at that time whether or not I hurt the Rules of Procedure. I'm finishing the presentation, and you, like any other MP, notice whether I've hurt the Rules of Procedure or not. This is just taking the right to prevent us from speaking in this congregation because you want this to end as soon as possible and because none of you want to discuss it, because you're aware of it... But I'll talk about it when I get my word on it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-25-0.u31563	I ask you not to make false statements in your statement. So you've quoted the article correctly - in the cases provided for in this Rules of Procedure. When I have very clear proof that you are making a lie, I am obliged to protect you from telling the People's Assembly that the truth is that none of the MPs want to participate because 35 MPs have been reported. Thank you, People's Messenger. Do you want a word as president of the parliamentary group? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-25-0.u31564	Mr. Kishmarton was looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-25-0.u31565	People's MP Otto Kishmarton wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-25-0.u31566	I wanted a replica, since I didn't get a word for the replica, I reported to the Rules of Procedure, Article 104. I'm offended... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-25-0.u31567	People's MP, you didn't get a replica, because the question of the replica is the discretionary right of the chairman. The abuse of rights is when, according to the chairman's decision, you have no right to a replica, you seek a breach of the Rules of Procedure, which is unacceptable. Thank you. Do you want a word as president of the parliamentary group? Here you go. The word has been made by MP Tomislav Nikolic, president of the parliamentary group Forward Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-25-0.u31568	As president of the parliamentary group, I want to tell the citizens of Serbia what he wanted to object to, Mr. Otto Kishmarton. Namely, he was offended as a member of the national minority, when Mr. Bajatovic said this was not the statute written by the national minorities. And you, Mrs. Comic, you watch who's dressed, what a haircut he has, and you don't listen to what he says. Injured and offended members of all national minorities. People's MP for the Progressive Serbia Group...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-25-0.u31569	People's MP, please do not take the duties of the chairman. Article 101 obliges the chairperson to assess in which cases the right to replication is allowed. Please use your exposure in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and explain the topic of the agenda. Thank you and continue.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-25-0.u31570	I said what I wanted, it's all less important now. The SNS wants to talk about this act as an attempt on political structures in Vojvodina to paralyze the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia with the constitution of the AP Vojvodina. There's a lot of evidence for this claim, and our claim is proven by preamble. One statute has a preamble. Where this is still recorded in the world, to pair the preambles of the Constitution of the State by preambulising the statutes of the AP Vojvodina and by a different interpretation of the state in which the AP is located. According to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Serbia is the state of the Serbian people and of all citizens living in it. It now turns out that the territory of the AP Vojvodina is not the territory of the Serb people and all citizens living on it, but rather the territory of citizens and citizens. As the statutes continue, the statute interferes with constitutional jurisdiction because the creators are trying to prove that they are guardians, especially for national minorities and especially in the territory of the AP Vojvodina. I don't give a shit that you're giving the AP to the Duke. Vojvodina as part of Serbia's territory, which cultivates multinationality, multi-confessionality, European values. Isn't that the whole territory of Serbia regulated by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia? Why is the Statute of Vojvodina discussing the rights of national minorities when they are guaranteed by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and when the Constitution is the only act that regulates this matter? What does preamble mean for one act? The sign of sovereignty? Why do the citizens and citizens of the Vojvodina bring this statute? Don't all citizens of Serbia bring this statute? Is there only the Duke's statutes by order of the Duke's Assembly that he was made? He's gone. So you are now inviting us on behalf of all citizens of Serbia, on behalf of the Serbs and all other citizens of the Republic of Serbia to participate in something that the citizens of the Vojvodina are giving themselves. I guess we're all giving ourselves that Duke's statute. Isn't that Vojvodina part of Serbia's territory a part of all of us? Why did you insist so much on specialities? Why did you follow the nose of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia so much? Why did you regulate the provisions fully regulated by the Constitution? To make the statute look like the Constitution. Why have you regulated provisions you have no right to, because they are regulated by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia? Imagine one impossible scene, if there was no Serbia, the Duke's statute would be enough for the Vojvodina constitution. That's how it's written. Gentlemen of the Socialists, Mr. Jovanovic was wrong when he said that only DS here, as he said, had set the statutes, and was not warned of that harsh word. Here all ruling parties have set the statutes for the citizens of Serbia. Everyone worked hard to get their voters to subdue that statute. The DS, which failed when we participated in the creation of Serbia's Constitution to be a state of citizens and citizens, accepted that Serbia be the state of the Serbian people and all the citizens living in it, now experienced the affirmation of its stance through the Vojvodina statute. The Socialist Party of Serbia says the amendments have been corrected by the Vojvodina statute. If you could fix it, wouldn't the DS agree? You had no dispute over that repair, because it wasn't even fixed, because the capital was wiped out in one place and left in two. Now DS is going to say -- there's still a capital city left, and you're going to say -- the capital's been wiped out. We, little and naive, don't understand anything. We do not even know why you did not allow us in the congregation to compare both proposals in one debate? Because, watch out, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia today or the other day brings both acts. They both have the same power, and they're different. If you were to ask me what I honestly think about what you have now called the government of the Vojvodina, I would say I have nothing to object to. I wouldn't have anything to resent, since the Constitution there gives the AP to Vojvodina the right to govern the organs it establishes itself, and by that means give them a name. But why now, after so many years of the Executive Council, and even at a time when Zivan Berisavljevic would applaud you at a speech just now, because he also howled in the oblands of the 1974 Constitution, and even at that time there was an Executive Greater Vojvodina. Why should we now have the government of the Vojvodina? In addition to all other provisions that are absolutely displayed as provisions of the constitution of a state. Why now the Vojvodina Academy of Science and Art, so where is the spread of hatred, where have the lies about the Republic of Serbia been sown as a state where Vojvodina cannot be realized? From Vanu. Why didn't SANU agree with that? How can he agree? Who's going to separate the academics from us now? In this country of ours to separate academics. What's the point? With whom VANU collaborated - in 80% of cases with the Hungarian Academy of Sciences and Arts, in 20% of Austrian cases. When you put it together, it's "ka-und-ka." Why am I afraid? For putting in Srem, Banat and Bakko. What did you need? By what law, for example, can I ask you, do you also mean part of the territory of Srema that is in Croatia? Do you mean the part of Banat territory that's in Romania? You can't divide Banat, which is a European region now, along the border. If you think you're sharing it, you should have said -- part of the Banat that's in the Republic of Serbia. I could accept that. Part of Srema located in the Republic of Serbia. And I could accept that. This way I don't know if you might be hitting the sovereignty of the states that are recognised by the UN members? One in the EU, one on the way to the EU. All so that we would be accused of speaking hate, of speaking from the '90s, as if we could not, as we say, Mrs Gordana Comic does, to speak nicely, and to think ill. I think it's fairer that someone who thinks something bad is saying it in bad words. It's a more honest man. He may not be a good man, but he's honest. Don't hide your intentions. Here will the ruling majority hide their intentions in almost all provisions of the statutes. We objected to the law on determining jurisdiction. It was meant to be a law on the transfer of jurisdiction because the powers of the Vojvodina were established by the Constitution and cannot be re-established by a lower law. Because the Constitutional Court will be in great pain, but knowing how the Constitutional Court has been working for us for the last 15 years, I see now how this will be defined before the Constitutional Court. Almost no decision by the Constitutional Court that was not at the will of the ruling majority has been made. What will we do to the Constitutional Court if he doesn't solve this matter? What are the sequences? There are countless examples that the Constitutional Court has not acted at all, and even when the DS introduced 210 MPs to the Serbian Parliament, the Constitutional Court did not act, it was not interested. Elections pass, a new assembly majority is formed, forgetting which laws have been passed illegally. Let's move on. That's the way it's gonna be with this statute. I was talking about Frusch Mountain, and it really doesn't make sense. The state-run Fruska Gora facility is being abolished, the Dukean institution Fruska Gora is being established. So Fruska Gora will belong to the Dukes, a new term. We Dukes, he says. This is more important to you than to say - we Serbian citizens. Now, if we start talking like that, who is it? Where did you get the new rip of Serbia? You say the snake was bit by, the lizard is afraid. Why did only the Serbian people bite a snake? Why do we remember something that other nations don't have to remember, and what kind of a people that don't learn in their history? In this room, you said well, many countries fell apart. That's what's going on. Don't just tell me there's nothing wrong with the Republic of Serbia, that Vojvodina will stop at the authority of a certain statute. Who asked the people of Vojvodina? Who went to the public stands, to the gatherings? It's just us who are against the statutes. How many meetings did you hold of your contemporaries who would vote for the Duke's statutes? None. Now you're accusing people who write on bridges that they're against the statutes. You do not accuse those who say – at last Novi Sad is the capital. They don't spread hate, they don't spread conflict. The authority determines who spreads hatred, who spreads conflict, and who supports authority. For him, everyone else is bad. He can tell these other people whatever he wants. It's nice to live in Vojvodina. Vojvodina is a richer part of Serbia. I'm concerned about the selfishness that you show to the Duke. You're making this happen, not because of the citizens. They're just getting another capital. What Tadic is doing to them in Belgrade, at the level of all Serbia, what Gilas is doing in Belgrade as a city, Pajtic will do in Novi Sad. What's the difference? Only more administrations, only more employees. How will the Vojvodina take care of national minorities? I guess Serbia cares about national minorities. You'll be teaching programs for national minorities to introduce. Let's not talk about the network of courts. Just 15 days ago, you passed a law governing the organisation of courts in Serbia's territory, and now we're going to arrange courts in the territory of Vojvodina. I'm not talking about the fact that you've predicted yourself to determine how you're going to ask questions that are relevant to Vojvodina, that you're editing, if the law hasn't arrived. You can do anything. This can cause indignation among other Serbian citizens, and we should live in peace and harmony, to develop evenly. And Italy had a problem with the rich north and the poor south, so it solved it by developing. What are we going to do, charge taxes in Vojvodina and keep those taxes in Vojvodina? You're gonna tell me that's not forming a state. Is there another country in the world where taxes are charged differently? I don't know, where did those G17 plus run off to? There are witnesses here as we wrote the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. That Mladjan Dinkic, who is now an advocate of absolute autonomy, prevented the DS from obtaining what the statute now requires with the Constitution of Serbia, as it was pointless to give so much jurisdiction to Vojvodina. Here, there's the DSS people, they're witnesses. And that 7% was some compromise, otherwise, if you yellow people were wondering, we'd already have another state under the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. I don't know what's driving you. I don't know what's chasing you. I don't know what you're lying to us about, what in the law did you call this government the Executive Council? Why were you not courageous, honest, and honest in signing the statute of law on the transfer of jurisdiction? What's with the different provisions? Who are you lying to? Who are you kidding? Are you ready to defend the statutes? Defend him. Now we're savages for attacking him, and you're wonderful people because you won't defend him. What's to defend him with, what's that friend of mine from Ivanzica gonna do to defend him? What does he get with this Duke's statute? Does he feel threatened? Who's gonna take care of him? What kind of original income will he have? Who's he gonna work with in the world? Where's his office in Brussels? Where's his development bank? The biggest crime you've ever committed with Metals Bank, the biggest possible crime, and there's gonna be a time when someone's gonna start questioning you, investigating you. How did you take down Metals Bank shares? How did the Executive Council buy the bank's shares, even though it did not define the funds for it in the budget? What's that, a development bank? Do you want to go over that bank to be in charge abroad? What does Vojvodina say, she'll decide her own assignments? Where's that? Don't all the laws go here to the Assembly for ratification? What will you say – the degree of autonomy cannot change anymore? The competencies vested in Serbia by the Vojvodina can never be returned again, and property now belonging to Vojvodina remains property in Vojvodina. You prejudged your views on the property. You're solving something for which there's no law. This isn't a public property law, but you've already said that the funds in public property are the assets of the AP Vojvodina. You can't cause me to hate Vojvodina, but you're causing me to disagree with your way of leading the Vojvodina. Many people will wish for it, so Bosko Ristic sought autonomy for the Niski region two years ago. What's wrong with you people? If this is an opportunity to get to European funds more easily before the state, many areas in Serbia will wish to have autonomy. You threw it out there and it's historic and it's like this and it's like that, and then where are we? Serbia is the only country afraid of regionalisation. He's rightly afraid. She was never given the right to care for her people. We take care of everyone else. Who cares about Serbs in Croatia? As far as we're concerned, we're ready to talk, completely open with all of you. We're ready to do it in a very short time. We've been waiting 13-14 months for the Duke's statutes, we can do 15 more days. Come on, as we wrote the Serbian Constitution, let's all sit down, and the government and the opposition, all Serbian citizens, to determine the autonomy of Vojvodina, so you can say -- here, we've consulted half of Serbia. You know, half of Serbia wasn't consulted with this, half of Vojvodina wasn't consulted when you were doing this. You are working on behalf of those of you who are now in power, who now have some parliamentary mandates. Will you have them in your next session? Now you're cementing that nothing can be changed by what you bring. Only a fool doesn't change. It's an old consequence. Please think responsibly. You've had a good time there, that triumvirate run by Vojvodina, where the representatives of the three parties are, it's working well for now. But as far as the citizens of Vojvodina are concerned, they cannot be satisfied with what you do. You can pass on your selfishness, you can tell minority members – here, we gave you everything, now vote here for everything we do in the Assembly. You may too of the SPS boast that you repeated it in 1988, and if I were a member of the SPS, I wouldn't boast of this act. When you said - we socialists broke it in 1988, I threw it to you that they were real socialists, and now I'm staying with it, they were real socialists.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-25-0.u31571	The word has been made by MP Milos Aligrudic, president of the Democratic Party of Serbia's parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-25-0.u31572	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in today's discussion, especially in the defense of the proposed acts, yesterday's law on the jurisdiction of Vojvodina, and today's statute to which the National Assembly should give its consent, was used to replace the classical thesis with those who dispute these acts. We need to clarify first what is the subject of the conflict here. All those who defend these acts make one verbal misunderstanding, trying to prove that the subject of the conflict is a challenge to autonomy, to challenge autonomy, to challenge the right to decentralisation. That, ladies and gentlemen, at least as far as the DSS is concerned, is not the subject of a dispute. Here, despite the validity of the Constitution adopted in the referendum, and previously by the National Assembly, the term autonomy is used. Autonomousness, ladies and gentlemen, is a constitutional category of MPs and citizens of Serbia. Then in the defense of these laws, and in the defense of this statute, my God, the National Assembly of the Sea, according to the Constitution, was called upon to give consent to the statutes, and the congregation of the Vojvodina, according to the Constitution, had to adopt statutes and similar indisputable places. Why do those who defend these two acts replace the thesis and speak of undeniable places? It is very simple, because this creates a cacaphony of sounds that should be cited by citizens who listen to this public debate, that they have had the opportunity to read some of this public debate or listen through statements by politicians in Serbia about what is happening to us, to create the impression of the infatuation of those who give criticism or objections to these acts. Of course, all this stuff I've stated isn't the subject of the dispute. decentralisation is an essential place in the development of every country. If there is a party in Serbia that is heart-full of the principle of decentralisation, it is the Democratic Party of Serbia. If there is a party that wants to respect the Constitution and the right to autonomy, respecting anyone who implements or acts as a politician or political entity in the realization of autonomy, and thus becomes an autonomous, it is the Democratic Party of Serbia. What's the object of the dispute is what is actually this act that you delivered us and what is actually the law that we discussed yesterday. Are they talking about decentralisation in Serbia and do they meet the measure of autonomy provided for by the Constitution? The answer to that question is negative. Another key replacement of the thesis we heard here yesterday, even from the president of the ZES parliamentary group, that the subject is a slow question of the relationship between the unitary state concept and the concept of decentralisation, as a completely false dilemma. Ladies and gentlemen, we are a unitary state according to our concept, and as a unitary state, we have the right to a decentralisation system, to a full extent. There cannot be a wall, a barrier, between unitary issues in the state, as concepts, and the principle of decentralisation. These two things can go hand in hand and the smart government sees that these things do not reconcile, they are reconciled at the beginning, but they are realised in a constitutional and adequate way. What you forget, apologists, of these nebuloses that we received in the Serbian Parliament, is that the opposite concept of a unitary state is a federal or confederal state. When you have something that opposes the unitary principle, it's a federal principle or a confederal principle. Now we come to the point of contesting the statutes that is before us. We are currently contesting the statutes because despite all publicly spoken words by the authorities in Serbia, which despite everything you have tried so-called. Legal-technical editorials to correct in the text of the statutes or to scrutinize in the text of the law which should logically precede this text of the statutes, and only then the Assembly of Vojvodina to adopt it, which is here for us. All you said there was very thin support for the principle of state unity and legal order, because they only compromise themselves in the opposite provisions that you wrote, we'll say something about it later. So, the subject of the dispute is this -- you wrote the text of the statutes, you who wrote it, to whom I now address it, and you as a majority, with the obvious intention of giving consent to this text of the statutes, by delivering to us an act that is contrary to the Constitution of Serbia in many of its provisions, which we will very simply and on several practical examples prove to you, that it does not remain on the mere flossules. Then you brought the text of the statutes by adopting it more and more quickly in the Vojvodina Assembly, here when I qualify, I am talking about the ruling majority in Serbia, which definitely de facto holds the same majority in the AP Vojvodina Assembly, by bringing it before those acts that this National Assembly has the obligation to bring under that same constitution, which you have not aged, which should serve as the basis for the adoption of statutes. How is autonomy being made, according to the Constitution? By establishing the competences of this autonomy, which appears to be the law of this National Assembly, by establishing the way in which the property of that autonomy will inherit, which appears to be the law of this National Assembly, by setting out the way in which that autonomy will be financed, which appears to be the law of this National Assembly. Based on the package of the three laws that stand in the legal hierarchy always above each sublegal act, a sublegal act is adopted in the process of these acts. A sublegal act is the statute of the Vojvodina. It did not have to be brought before, no measure of jurisdiction can be taken, based on the Constitution, the way in which the assets are financed and the means of availability can be determined and prejudged by a sublegal act, before this House adopts those previous acts. That's what we've been talking about for months, and it's as clear as day. Furthermore, this inversion of the procedure as well as the numerous contradictions, which I will soon point to, states unequivocally that this is not about displaying autonomy or autonomous action, which is legitimate and constitutional, or implementing the principle of decentralisation beyond the level of autonomy in Serbia, but is obviously about trying to formally, at least in words, to establish the right of autonomy in certain provisions, and to essentially, through a number of other provisions of this Statute, establish a right that is greater than the right of autonomy. This right would be some right to a federal unit that is not called here, it is obvious, but from the jurisdiction and manner in which citizens living in Vojvodina's territory are treated through this law and disqualification of the position of citizens living on the rest of Serbia's territory, it is obvious that it is an attempt to conceal, by some, and some, openly and intercede, the establishment of a de facto federal unit. If you have such an attempt and you realize such an attempt in this sense, then it's not far from being able to suspect that from a federalization attempt we're going to be able to make an attempt at separation very quickly. It is not in the interest of the Serbian state and is not in accordance with the Constitution. If someone says that this story scares the citizens, which has been the case these days, I am telling you openly that you are scaring your citizens with your proposals, and that our constitutional obligation as MPs and responsibility to citizens is to warn about the moments that may be a cause for concern, because it is our duty. Imagine now that a thief enters your house during the night, while your housemates sleep and you wake up, see a thief, and shout to the householders “people, there is a thief in our house, ” and they wake up with “come on, don’t be afraid of us. ” The obligation of MPs is, when they see something that they are deeply convinced is wrong and that it goes to the detriment of the interests of Serbian citizens and to the harm of the legal order, to suggest it. It's our right to also qualify the acts that are before us, because it's actually the only place, it's the only moment in our debate that we point to as irregular, because there's nothing else. If you're going to tell us that we want to point out that it's wrong to carry out autonomy, it's incorrect, we're in favour of autonomy being carried out. If you're saying we're against decentralisation, it's incorrect, we're about decentralisation to be carried out, to be done in accordance with the Constitution. That is why we are to adopt the Statute of the Vojvodina Assembly, so we are to adopt a package of laws necessary for the education of Vojvodina's autonomy in accordance with the Constitution. We're all up for it, the problem is that we point to something else, because there are other things going on here, and now I'm going to very simply represent it. Since you keep saying that there are no arguments that explain what is not in line with the legal order and what dangers are coming from it, we will now simply prove it. Article 1 of Article 3 of this Statute reads as follows: "Autonomic province is an inseparable part of the Republic of Serbia". Great. I sign this sentence and it should stand in the statute, because it stands in the Constitution of Serbia, but look at the first two positions of that member. The first reads: “Vojvodina is an autonomous province of citizens and citizens, in the further text of citizens,” as if you are ashamed to continue to drag the citizens into this text of the statutes, and in the end, you have defined yourself as a male concept. What, then, is this “citizen ” syntagma for? Whether I agree with you or not, this is insane in itself. It further states: "those who live in it in the composition of the Republic of Serbia". Look at what the definition of the Constitution looks like, the concept of autonomous province. Is it possible that in the Statute of the AP Vojvodina, a definition must be given that alluds to the civil sovereignty of that part of the territory. Imagine, for example, that the town of Belgrade is a city of citizens and citizens of Belgrade. That doesn't say it there because it's the default thing. In Article 5, you still have this syntagm on the citizens of the AP Vojvodina. Where you found a foothold in the Constitution to put on a syntagm "Citizens of the AP Vojvodina". That may be Semantically correct, but formally-legal in writing one legal text is not. All you have is the possibility of saying to the citizens of Serbia who live in the territory of the Vojvodina or the population or residents of Vojvodina. When, in the context of the whole text and other inconsistencies that we're going to list, how far we get, you connect this norm you'll get significant certain trends that this law has. So we don't waste any time, we move on. Article 6 refers to national equality. It is not disputed, anyone can advocate national equality in Serbia. It is not disputed that sublegal acts can also impose such standards. However, if this standard of national equality makes a parallel system of the idea of national equality from the Constitution of Serbia by putting all Serbian citizens living in Serbia's territory in this member of national groups, calling them national communities, including Serbs as the constituent people of this country, who are particularly isolated in the Constitution, then you get one conglomerate that does not serve any of those listed in the Constitution, and at least serves the state of Serbia, because it knows exactly what is the position of the national minorities. National minorities should be respected, given maximum rights, which we would never be against, but we can't just because of the rounding of a region or an autonomous area in Serbia turn something which are national minorities on the territory of all Serbia into a pair of national community excellencies in the part of the country's territory. It can't be done. It's against the constitution, and if there is a fair Constitutional Court, this provision will be brought down. When it comes to determining the capital, the government's concept of the Vojvodina Statute, how can an autonomous area in one unitary state, however decentralised, have a capital? This mentions various expressions from foreign words used here "capital" etc. This is possible at the level of everyday speech, but at the level of text, at the level of the general legal act, it is not, because you will not find such a similar example anywhere in Europe. I remind you again, it's not about federalization, it's about autonomy. How is it possible for Serbia's autonomy, an autonomous area in Serbia, to make international agreements with regions in Europe and to have representations in European regions and Brussels, where Brussels here is not defined as a concept at all, nor is it explained what was meant to be said, so it is not known whether it is a Belgian state, one of its federal units, the headquarters of an international organisation, a region? You don't even know what you're thinking. How is it possible that the autonomous area of a unitary state concludes international agreements with regions that, in terms of those associations you think of, are mostly federal units of their own countries? How can an autonomous province in Serbia conclude any agreement with Bavaria because it is not at the same level? By completing such an agreement that you are promoting this statute, and certainly by a law that should have preceded it, and not vice versa, you are stimulating an idea that needs to be incorporated into the soul, heart and mind of people in Serbia, that it is in fact an autonomous area of the unitary state, however decentralized, against which we have nothing, you must know, how can you convince citizens that they have equal rights in a functional sense as one Bavaria, which is called the free state of Bavaria and practically almost confederal unit in the Bundes republic of Germany? It can't be. It can't be under this constitution that we voted, which the citizens confirmed at the referendum. If you don't want this thing to look like this, if you want the attributes you have attributed here by the Vojvodina, which are basically federal or even in the elements of the confederal, then you need to advocate legitimately and legally for the change of the Serbian Constitution, which will form Serbia as a federal state, so let it go to the referendum, so bring your policy out publicly, so when it becomes the crown of the legal order in Serbia, then things will continue to develop properly. What I said was the living truth. There is no other interpretation than this. When it comes to jurisdiction, not to mention other things like language, letter and other things that you're trying to do, and that's part of the issue of jurisdiction, so we're going to talk about it, it's not a problem how much authority the Vojvodina has. That's where the public gets confused. It's not a problem at all if it's 160 responsibilities. Maybe it should be 250. The problem is how these powers are exercised in a broad autonomy in the unitary state. Autonomy, in a single jurisdictional autonomy and in a unitary state, shall be carried out and taken as a transfer of powers by the central authority. When you transfer jurisdiction to a local level, even if it is the level of one autonomy, one area, one region within Serbia, they are transferred by trusting jobs to perform rather than editing. Every time you write in the statute, and in every place you write, you do these areas in transferable affairs. It cannot be made at the level of the AP or the law, or the decision, whatever it is called, which regulates the matter directly in Article 97. The constitution numbered as the exclusive jurisdiction of the RS. These exclusive powers of Serbia can be transferred. It's not a question. I can do all the 17 that are listed, but you can't edit the matter. Yesterday I set an example for you that you cannot make decisions in the field of social protection in Vojvodina that have the power to regulate matter. The only substance is the Social Protection Act of Serbia, etc. Taking into account all these facts, as well as the famous question of the referendum, which actually gives attributes to the Vojvodina of the sovereignty of citizens in its territory to the rest of Serbia, when you take unfair treatment of Serbian citizens on certain issues that fall within the domain of human and minority rights, which are resolved in Vojvodina in a given way, and very dishonest, by being able to give, I end this, certain powers of Vojvodina to regulate that area, giving them greater rights than can the citizens of Negotina, Zaječar, Valjeva, Kruševac, Čačka, Prepolje, Uzica, etc. Then I ask you -- how can we qualify this act, how can we not be afraid, and how can we not pass on this established fear, our duty to the citizens of Serbia, and how can we not challenge your cheap apologetics, which you are trying to tell us is the subject of slow autonomy, which is not true, or that the subject of the dispute is inalienable citizens' right to decentralisation, which is not true?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-25-0.u31573	Before we end the work of the morning session, honourable MPs, two notices. First, a session of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs of the National Assembly will be held on Thursday, November 26th 2009, starting at 10:45 p.m., in Hall I in the National Assembly, Trg Nikola Pasic. Another announcement, I would like to inform the MPs that the International Conference, the National Assembly of RS and independent state bodies, will be held in the National Assembly on 26 and 27 November 2009. The conference begins tomorrow, Thursday, November 26th, at 9.00 p.m., at the Little Hall of the National Assembly. I call on all MPs to take part in this conference to send the citizens who have chosen us a message that we are clearly defined to acquire knowledge and skills and strengthen the capacity of the National Assembly's control function through co-operation with independent bodies. It's a break I'm setting by 4 p.m. At 4 p.m., we'll start the afternoon section. On the basis of Article 85. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, today we extend the work even after 1800 hours, and the topic that is on the agenda at that time. The National Assembly session will be in direct TV broadcast until 2:00 p.m. The afternoon session will begin with the presentation of MP Aleksandar Martinovic, deputy president and authorised representative of the SRS parliamentary group. Thank you. [[After breaks – 16.10]] Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session in the afternoon debate on item two of the agenda. The word is by MP Aleksandar Martinovic, the authorised representative of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-25-0.u31575	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when Hitler's government was established in Germany on January 30, 1933, a political philosopher wrote that hegel died that day. We are free to say that today-to-morrow, i.e. when you confirm the statutes of the AP Vojvodina for the second time, Serbian greats such as Svetozar Miletic, Jasa Tomic, Stevan Šupljik, such as Patriarch Joseph Rajačić, like all the famous Serbs who worked in the 19th and early 20th centuries to meet, Banat, Baka and Baranja united with their country of Serbia. These days, we will annul, or rule in Serbia will annul the decisions of the Grand New Sad Assembly of 25 November 1918, the Grand National Assembly of Serbs, Bunjevac and Slovenia, when a historic decision was made - to accompany Banat, Baka and Baranja to the Kingdom of Serbia. A day earlier, so on November 24, 1918, a decision was made to directly attach the Kingdom to Serbia. Yesterday, Mr Nenad Canak, partly due to ignorance, partly because of his bad intentions, mentioned Yasa Tomic in an extremely negative context, and that Serbian citizens would not be denied the answer - why the SRS is potential for the importance of Jasa Tomic, here we are, on behalf of the SRS, to present a few facts. So Jasa Tomic parted with his colleague, Vas Stajic, on one question - whether Vojvodina 918 should unite with Serbia, first joining the state of Slovenes, Croats and Serbs, which was declared at the end of October 1918, or that Vojvodina would directly join the Kingdom of Serbia, therefore independent of Zagreb. Vasa Stajic advocated politics to go through Zagreb - first to unite with the state of Slovenes, Croats and Serbs, and then to join the Yugoslavia within that country, and Jasa Tomic said - no, first we will wear the words Jasa Tomic, the Serbian shirt, and then we will wear the coat of Yugoslavia. The historic role of Yasa Tomic is that of the very days of November 1918, Vojvodina, which means Srem, Banat, Baka and Baranja, which these fake autonomists have silenced, has decided to join the Kingdom of Serbia. As part of the Kingdom of Serbia, Vojvodina entered the newly formed state of the Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenians. Otherwise, Ms. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, received one letter from SPC, signed by Bishop Backi Irinej. She was asked, on behalf of the SPC, to read at the beginning of the session, which will be dedicated to the draft statutes of the AP Vojvodina, a letter of the Serbian archeology. As Serbian citizens could see in a direct transmission, it did not happen. Here, I'll read this short letter. "Remarked Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, as the eternal guardian of the Serbian spiritual entity, including the national identity and at a time when the Serbian state was not even there, the SPC is expressing great concern about the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the Serbian state, which is first heavily damaged, we hope only by the temporary, violent abduction and occupation of KIM, then by trying to make the AP Vojvodina a new state in Serbia. These are the spells of the new proposal for the Statute of the AP Vojvodina, which counter-constitutionally grants it, among other things, the following traits of statehood: the right to conclude international contracts in the area of its jurisdiction, the jus counterhendy, the right to establish its representations abroad, in particular in Brussels and law, subject to the usurpation of the Vojvodina Assembly, to pass laws. It is also an anti-constitutional establishment of the so-called The Vojvodina Academy of Science and Arts, made in order to attach a special national i.e. to the Vojvodina Serbs. national identity. As this proposal for the Statute of the AP Vojvodina begins a new dispersion and destruction of the already reduced and obedient Serbian state, by the decision of the Holy Archaeological Synod, on behalf of his Holiness, the Patriarch of Serbian Mr Paul and all the fullness of the SPC, we ask you to extend this letter and request to the meeting of the Assembly, where this issue will be discussed, in hopes that the MPs will pay due attention to him and that this apparently counter-constitutional act will deny their consent and confirmation. In the hope that you will do everything that is up to you, to which both the National Assembly and the Constitution commit you, in order to preserve the territorial integrity and internal unity of the state, receive the signs of our sincere gratitude. "As you can see, dear Serbian citizens, it is not true that there has been a panic meeting here, that anyone is lying and misleading you when he tells you that those behind the Vojvodina Statute proposal -- indeed they intend to start a federal unit in Serbia, and for about five, ten or 50 years, a completely independent state. The SRS has never claimed that tomorrow, after the adoption of the Statutes of Vojvodina here in the Serbian Parliament and after its declaration in the Vojvodina Assembly, there will be a formation of some duchy state, but in the long run it can happen because this statute, or the proposal for the Statute of Vojvodina, represents a mine that is placed in the foundations of the state of Serbia. Just to remind you ladies and gentlemen of the ruling coalition -- not according to the 1974 Constitution, no federal unit could break away from the SFRY. Why? The question was answered by our prominent legal theorists Jovan Djordjevic and Radomir Lukic, who claimed that this right to self-determination was used by the very fact that Yugoslavia was created. So the right of the people to self-determination, including the right to secession, was in the preamble to the SFRJ Constitution since 1974. It said, "Departing from the right of the people to self-determination, including the right to secession, the peoples of the SFRY are joining in the state of Yugoslavia." These prominent legal theorists interpreted quite correctly - that no federal unit has the right to secede from the SFRY and have called for the experience of Switzerland. Unfortunately, the international community, which you say is your friend, in 1991 and 1992, recognised your independence, first Slovenia and Croatia, then BiH, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia and finally in 2006, and during 2008 and 2009, a number of countries in Europe and outside Europe recognized the false independence of the false state of Kosovo. As you can see, these aren't naive things at all. Of course, representatives of the ruling coalition, or their authorised representatives, tried to say that nothing was scary - well, a year ago the Constitution was broken, but we corrected it with our amendments and now everything is great, now there are no problems left. Since the beginning of the draft, then the proposal for the statutes of the AP Vojvodina is a mockery of democracy, a mockery of the Constitution of RS, is a mockery of all the legal sciences' assets. First, not all political parties participated in the draft statutes of the AP Vojvodina. First of all, there was no SRS involved. Practically, the ruling coalition in Vojvodina, which means, above all, DS and its coalition partners, felt that making the statutes of Vojvodina was their party matter. What's there to interfere with? We have our experts, they will write the draft statutes of the AP Vojvodina. The draft entered the procedure of the AP Vojvodina Assembly, and on 14 October, the proposal for the Statute of the AP Vojvodina was voted on, and in the meantime, maltene came to a divorce case within the DS, so this duchy part of the DS claimed that it was all in accordance with the Constitution, that there was no problem, that Boris Tadic, leader of this second Belgrade-based DS wing, at a session of the DS General Committee, said it was unacceptable to form a new state of Vojvodina on seven minutes of travel from Belgrade. Then the ruling coalition came up with a brilliant idea to amend by amendments the text of the draft statutes that was voted upon, which passed all phases in the Vojvodina Assembly procedure. It's nowhere in the world. The act, which was voted on by the final vote, is subsequently changed by amendments. It was November 7, 2009, although you claimed for a year that everything was in line with the Constitution and how evil, corrupt and ignorant Serbian radicals feared citizens living in Vojvodina that someone violated the RS Constitution. On 7 November, the Vojvodina Assembly adopted some conclusion on the legal-technical corrections to the text of the Vojvodina Statutes proposal. That was not enough for you either, so after two days, the Committee on the Regulations of the Parliament of the Republic of Vojvodina met, so it finds that there have been obvious gaps in the drafting of the consolidated text of the proposal for the Statute of the AP Vojvodina. Look now, dear Serbian citizens, what is a technical mistake for the Vojvodina Assembly's regulation committee. He said - the president of the Committee recalled that, at a session held after the meeting of the AP Vojvodina Assembly on 7 November 2009, the Committee concluded in line with the conclusion on the technical alignment of the draft statutes of the AP Vojvodina with the proposal for a law establishing the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina, which the AP Vojvodina Assembly adopted at its session held on 7 November 2009, the consolidated text of the draft Statute of the AP Vojvodina. In the meantime, be careful, it was November 7th, and the Rules Committee is meeting on November 10th, which is three days, it was seen that certain technical errors have been subdued in the text, beware – technical errors, which are necessary to remove. Now brilliant sentences – the proposed technical corrections are more clearly defined by the territory of the AP Vojvodina. Imagine what a technical mistake - a clearer definition of AP Vojvodina's territory is being defined! It says – the position of the town of Novi Sad, as the main administrative centre of the AP Vojvodina; the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina is deleted, again a technical error relating to the award of the medal, because the Law on the Decoration of the Republic of Serbia, which was adopted in the meantime, was not adopted within three days, was adopted significantly earlier, provided that the authorities of the AP Vojvodina could propose the assignment, but not assign the honours and technically arranged member who regulates, imagine the technical error, the original revenues of the AP Vojvodina that were allocated to the members of the committee and those present at the beginning of the session. You say, "Mothers love us, we have good intentions, we are great lawyers, and everything is in accordance with the Constitution." This is, above all, contrary to the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina, this is the opposite with every rules of procedure of every democratic parliament in the world. The text that has passed and where the procedure is completed, where the vote is concluded, it can no longer be changed, that is, the lawyers would say,'res of the people' – a crucial thing. It can either be confirmed in the Serbian Assembly or rejected. You can't change something that's already been voted on. You have hurt first and foremost the Rules of Procedure of the Vojvodina Assembly, and these days you are drastically violating the Rules of Procedure of the Serbian Parliament, because this session, which is dedicated to the Statute of the AP Vojvodina, began by the fact that the MPs of the SRS cannot say everything they have to say about the bill of statute, because as soon as they shut down their microphones. Serbia's assembly is the only parliament in a world in which to be silent and in which not to talk about all these madnesss, about this circus that has been conducted in Serbia and in Vojvodina's territory over the past year. Now the question arises after what we have said – who can believe that you have good intentions? Who can believe these beliefs that come from DS and SPS that no one has any intention of creating a state in the state, everything is clear, everything is clear, everything is consistent with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia? Who can trust you after this? We still don't know what the Duke's Assembly voted for. One of the Assembly of Vojvodina voted, first, once, and secondly, and something quite third came to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and we are now talking about something, a proposal for the Statute of the Vojvodina that did not vote the Vojvodina Assembly, but which was subsequently readjusted by the Committee on Regulations of the Vojvodina Assembly, and you have seen what are allegedly technical errors – territory, original incomes, medals, the position of the city of Novi Sad. These are not technical mistakes, these are essential things in the draft statutes of the AP Vojvodina. Yesterday, Mr Nenad Canak, and Mr Cedomir Jovanovic reiterated this today, claimed that Vojvodina is one territory in Serbia that as such exists already, we heard 161, today 162 years. That's just not true. So, the Serbian Duchy was created at the May Assembly in 1848 in Sremski Karlovci, so that all the most visible Serbs in then-South Hungary decided to choose the Duke of Stevan Šupljik, otherwise Austrian General, from Srem, Banat, Backo. In March 1849, the Vienna Court recognised an official Serbian dukeship called the Dukeship of Serbia and the Tamiska Banat. The Serbian Duchy, which has been transferred to Temisovar, to the Tami part of Banat, is abolished by the decision of the Austrian emperor in December 1860. After that, Svetozar Miletic and Jasa Tomic continue their political fight for Serbian autonomy in southern Hungary. Svetozar Miletic formed in 1868 a Serbian free-minded party which, unfortunately, as with us Serbs often happens, soon divides into two factions, one being liberal, the other being national, radical. From that radical wing, Jasa Tomic, 1891, modelled by Nikola Pasic, forms a Serbian People's Radical Party in Vojvodina. This Pasic was called the People's Radical Party, and he named it the Serbian People's Radical Party. Along with other Serbs seen, he is working to restore Serbian autonomy in the Habsburg monarchy, in the foreign state, in a country that has done everything to cataclysm Serbs. The Serbian autonomy, whatever it was, was a waste of hope that Serbs in the Harsburg monarchy would preserve their national, religious and cultural identity. What's going on in 1918? While it was already clear that Austria was falling apart, the people's dungeon, as historians called it, Jasa Tomic said those famous words: "There is no longer a need for the autonomy of Serbs in their own country. Whoever continues to fight for autonomy in the Serbian state is fighting for the Austrian starter. We don't need that anymore. We have our own Serbian state. There is no danger for us anymore." In 1918, just today on November 25th, a historic decision was made to unite with the Kingdom of Serbia, Banat, Baka and Baranja, gentlemen of the Europeans and gentlemen of the Autonomouss. And Vojvodina joined the newly formed Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenians in Serbia. Who in the 30s of the 20th century advocates duchy autonomy? Well, just like today, the worst Serbs. In the 19th century, the best Serbs fought for Vojvodina, the worst in the 20th century. Today, the autonomy of Vojvodina in Serbia is fought by those who are ashamed to say that Serbs, who say that Serbs are a genocide people, who say the state of Serbia is genocide.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-25-0.u31576	Twenty minutes. Anybody else answer for a word? Injury of the Rules of Procedure? People's MP, Free Maras.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-25-0.u31577	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have reported for breach of Rules of Procedure, Rule 104. My predecessor, Mr. Martinovic, although I can do with the part where he criticised the ruling majority about the way he was brought to the statute and how much he traveled, he said at the end of his presentation that the worst Serbs advocate Vojvodina's autonomy. I think it is an insult to all of us in this House who think differently from Mr Martinovic, but also to the citizens of Vojvodina. Mr. Martinovic read here a letter from Vladika Irinei Bakko. I can understand that Vladika Irinej Bakki, although he likes to deal with politics, can not understand what the Statute means for Vojvodina and whether there is a obligation to adopt statutes and what the autonomy of Vojvodina is. I also know that Vladika Irinaj Baki understood very well when two or three years ago in Novi Sad the National Machine organized a protest, or attempted to mark the birthday of one of the Nazi leaders. At that time, Vladika Irinej Baki, in Porta of the Assembly Church, allowed members of the National Machine and Face to attack the citizens of Novi Sad who came to fight Fascism and show their commitment to antifascism.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-25-0.u31578	National MP, as regards your remarks on the quotation of the letter in the presentation of MP Aleksandr Martinovic, and on the basis of Article 27 and as an explanation and answer to you, I will quote the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the edge of the world of the state, Article 11 – the Republic of Serbia is a world state. Churches and religious communities are separate from the state. No religion can be established as national or compulsory. Since I am under Article 27. Otherwise, I am obliged to remind myself of the protection of legality and constitutionality, and so are all others who can have an opinion and attitude, they are obliged to respect Article 11. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia that speaks of the world of the state. In his presentation, the MP was more injured by Article 103 as he spoke very little about the agenda, but he was not warned, nor warned, nor will he be, because he was able to bring about the topic of the agenda and what he wanted to give as a representation of his political stance and political party to which he belonged, and he was left without warning and without warning. The People's Parliament of Hope Kolundji wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure. The National Assembly will declare in the voting day the violation of the Rules of Procedure, Article 104, by MP Slobodan Maras. Reported for the word, authorised representatives or presidents are MPs Velimir Ilic and National MP Nada Kolundžija You have no right to a replica. [[Alexander Martinovic, from the site: Looking for a replica.]] Please don't throw it away. You have no right to a replica. National MP Aleksandar Martinovic does not have the right to reply. (Alexander Martinovic, from the place: Why? ) I ask MP Aleksandr Martinovic not to throw away Parliament MP Pai Momchilov to throw away. I warn you, MP, that throwing it is a violation of the rules of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and that you do not force me to give you a warning measure. MP Velimir Ilic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-25-0.u31579	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I was extremely excited the other day when I listened to the president of Serbia, when he spoke about the death of the Serbian Patriarch, that all the important questions for Serbia and the big decisions he had always consulted on Patriarch. That was the other day. I think everyone remembers that very well. We got a memo here during Patriarch's life, and now we say the church can't interfere with state decisions, with the decisions of certain institutions. That's why...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-25-0.u31580	National MP, we do not say you, nor we, nor I, is the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, whose member I quoted. If you haven't been to the O.R. or haven't heard, I can do it again, Article 11... You know, thank you. No one is defending anyone's opinion, but under the Constitution, the Republic of Serbia is a global state and no religion can be a state. Please re-apply so that you may continue your exposure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-25-0.u31581	No need to quote the Constitution, I apologize, but I wanted to remind you, and I'm glad, then you say the president of the state broke the Constitution. He broke the Constitution. We have repeatedly claimed that the president of the state must not violate the Constitution.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-25-0.u31582	People's MP, please, on the basis of Article 103, we are talking about the subject of the agenda and that you are not drawing conclusions from my explanation, which I am trying to help you with your presentation and that together we respect the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-25-0.u31583	I'm asking you to listen to me, and it's not right to interrupt me at any moment. I have the right before my New Serbia parliamentary group to express our views, our opinions and our vision of the Duke's statutes at this time. I listened very carefully to you, I listened to the presentations of these days of people from the ruling coalition, state officials and many responsible people in Serbia. But this morning I was extremely disappointed on the site when I saw that some "Free Vojvodina," and who's there, I don't know, made two letters standing there. They are very unfavourable and are called for a pure separation of the Vojvodina, etc. Will the D.A. react to something like that? Will it be revealed whose site it is and who, at the time of this assembly debate, writes such letters and completely draws the public into one other thought than what the government is saying, what do the people of the ruling coalition say? Therefore, we now have extremely big problems in the country of economic nature, very difficult problems in certain economic branches that we are having a hard time over. Great debt, great debt, great unemployment, but gentlemen of the ruling coalition, you produce in all of this, at every Parliament meeting, a lot of new problems. You instead of solving existing problems and focusing on them, to make it better in Serbia, for people to come to live in Serbia, as it used to be, you are now simply becoming a factory of problems. You're passing an information law that causes hundreds of problems. You're passing laws on the transfer of jurisdiction that will also cause hundreds of problems. Our government is so busy, it's so, I can't figure it out, overloaded, it's got to transfer one piece of jurisdiction. Do you know when the jurisdiction of a government in a serious state is passed on to someone? When someone's sick. I remember when I had surgery, I transferred some responsibilities to some other people. Is this government sick? Is there something wrong with this government? Does this government transfer jurisdiction for some reason justifiable? How can one peace minister transfer jurisdiction to another institution that is formed and created? This Serbia, the rest of Serbia, which is not Vojvodina, must pay for their transfer of jurisdiction to another government that will form. So, this tortured south of Serbia and western Serbia, eastern Serbia, central Serbia and all those who do not have the bread to eat, hungry, thirsty, unemployed, must now pay, because our government is arrogantly transferring its powers, does not want to discuss the issues of Vojvodina, but will give it to a new government that will form in Vojvodina. It's first inexcusable, irresponsible, incorrect. It all costs a lot. Many institutions are being transferred, many competencies that are extremely important in Serbia are being transferred. Who authorized them to do such a thing? What are they doing now so they can't do it, and there's someone more executive, who was, which was legitimate, to do some part of his job with the Serbian government? It's wrong first, and it doesn't lead to good, and we know what it is. It's one conflict in the Democratic Party that came about because Pajtic was supposed to be prime minister, so he didn't and of course, he just won. His currents have won, and they've forced the ruling majority to accept everything they're looking for, which is to build a state in the state. Gentlemen, once you've carefully analyzed all this, we'll have a state in the country, whether we want to admit it or not, but it's... What's one country's feature, what's the basic feature of a country? Government. Someone who has a government is a state. Someone who has an academy, someone who has a government, someone who has certain institutions, has its own incomes, and the rest, he's a state. It is strange for you now, and you smile and make a very light decision for Serbia, which will not lead Serbia into peaceful waters, but an evil seed that has come out of this Separatist statute will not rest. It'll work on. This is the first phase, such as the Constitution, when we were making the Constitution, I remember that perfectly, there was blackmail that the Constitution would vote, because it took half of the registered population to come out and vote for, so there were few votes, then this was built in, but a little lagged-up, as you here have grown so envied. That's what you're supposed to bring here today, these days, today, the debate is happening. It's only good for those who had their sick ideas long ago to do this. They didn't make it. They've been subdued, and now they've come to terms that they're pushing through the blackmail of the government to survive, and the ruling coalition, how to survive. They simply offered to make that decision after a year. I remember Tadic's statement that it was impossible to bring something like this and that he could not accept it. Here, he took it anyway. Why? It's important to survive and remain in power, perhaps not long, to survive. In the spring, we'll see what happens to us. This isn't good. Why isn't it good? Serbia under the Constitution is the state of the Serbian people, and in the part of the state, in the AP Vojvodina, Serbs are no longer a constituent people, they are no longer a people, but what are they? They are a national community, completely equal with the Hungarians, with Romanians, with the Russians, with everyone else, Belarusians and others living there. How can a people who are...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-25-0.u31584	People's MP, I must remind you that in Serbia everyone who lives together is even and I ask you to be very careful, whatever the context of your exposure and in whatever way you bring him into contact with the statute, that you carefully avoid all of us and those who look at us doing anything else but make it clear that in Serbia everyone, regardless of ethnic origin, race, religion, full membership, equal to each other, is equal, whatever. I'm really asking you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-25-0.u31585	That's what it stands for. I ask you one more time, let go, then discuss it later. Don't pick up after every three sentences. It's very incorrect. The Serbian Constitution says so, but that's not what Vojvodina's statutes say. It is that it is simply in the statute contrary to the Constitution of Serbia. When you're a majority nation in the province, you're now bringing in to be a national community. It says...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-25-0.u31586	National MP, you have been warned, according to the Constitution of Serbia, all Serbian citizens are equal to each other. I ask you to stick to the views on the status of the majority people in Vojvodina or anywhere, if you do not want us to be put in a situation together to give you measures for violating the Constitution and making statements that are inadmissible as a publicly responsible word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-25-0.u31587	Please listen to me till the end. It's not right, I repeat, what you're doing. That's very incorrect. If you want to piss me off, you won't piss me off. You won't be sure of that, but I repeat that the Constitution says one thing. It is true that all citizens of Serbia are equal and it stands, but read further what it says, and you see the statute of what it says. The constitution and the statutes are being considered. Why? You certainly know how to explain a better and ruling coalition. I'd like to ask you. Would in another country, here, take Hungary, allow them to be both the national community and the Serbs and Romanians and all to be the national community? They wouldn't allow it. If you came out with such a proposal, someone would laugh at you. Don't be nervous. Why are you getting upset, Mrs. Comic? You should chair this assembly, give your word and listen to the MP. Serbian citizens decide who is right, not you. You're not the Supreme Judge here, you're not the President of the Constitutional Court. You are the chairman of this House, in the absence of the President of Parliament and act accordingly. Please, don't violate the Rules of Procedure and interrupt the MPs every minute. I know you're nervous, so you'd like this in three minutes to let your bosses know it's over, but it can't. We have to at least talk about it. Don't be angry and don't interrupt me, because that's incorrect. This is an anti-constitutional act, which is causing Serbia much damage, which insults Serbia's dignity as a state. I am offended when someone in the part of Serbia's territory, where the majority Serb population lives, says the Cyrillic is lagging, outdated, that it should be inserted into the Latin. When someone says that the National Academy of Serbia is lagging behind, three, backwards, that it is necessary to create a new, modern, modern, modern, insulting me as a citizen of Serbia, as a man living in Serbia. When someone says we're back down there living in Serbia because we have Guch, and these are advanced because they have Exit. I like "Exit" and "Guch" and sometimes I write both inconspicuously, depending on where I am, but the Cyrillic letter is our pride. Our Orthodox Church is our pride, our Dick. This was shown by Serbia the other day at the funeral of a Serbian patriarch. I am proud that the Orthodox Church has come forward on this matter. I'd be very disappointed if they hadn't come forward and I'm too happy that they came forward and said their position, to tell you, gentlemen -- don't come out of this Earth framework, to spoil some life that can be pleasant. I am proud that you are discussing here to make it better for Serbs both in Vojvodina and Serbs in Serbia and national minorities across Serbia, that all of these countries feel as their own, that they do not long and seek anything new, that they do not want some statutes and new institutions, that each of us has its own origin, but when we come here, our common homeland is Serbia, Mrs Comic. We only have one legacy, and that's Serbia, all of us here, no matter which party you are. Then he'd be overjoyed as a man. We carry our origins in our hearts, our tongues, our faith, etc., but here we all have one home, which is Serbia. You don't understand, and it's hard for you to explain. I'll do my best. He says we shouldn't be ashamed of Cyrillic, that we shouldn't be ashamed of our academy, that we should be proud to have her. Serbia has gained the National Academy with pain, fought for its letter, fought for its language, etc. And it can also be modern with Cyrillic, why not, and can be modern, and can be accepted in the EU, if it is strong, if it is economically strong, if it has a happy and satisfied people, happy its citizens. Therefore, how miserable we will feel when the three embassies Serbia now has in Brussels, we have an embassy in Belgium, we have an embassy in the UN, we have in NATO. It's a little bit now. They are insufficient to explain the appetites of some people from Vojvodina, so we should now create a new representative of Vojvodina, to challenge that election for some additional rights, because these three embassies, these three representations that Serbia has, are insufficient and do not know how to do business. Let's change them if they don't do a good job. How much does it collect, who's going to pay for it? Serbia, ma'am. So it's not right. So I'd like to ask you to pull this statute until this mess is broken, because this doesn't lead to anything. This needs to be withdrawn, over-thinked, consulted with all political options. If you don't believe it, check the election or let us check what the people think in the referendum, what the citizens of Vojvodina think. They don't think like the ruling majority, for sure. I was in New Sad yesterday. The second thing is, who's going to hand over the property of the Republic of Serbia to Vojvodina? Now the appetites have grown. Who created this property, whose property, who built the Beška Bridge, who built the highway, who built all of it, who built the factories, who built the city's infrastructure, the village? Serbia. Who took the loans? Serbia. Who's gonna pay back the loans? It's Serbia again. Of course, we will now create public enterprises that will take it to master and create new and new thousands of jobs in Vojvodina, where party people will come to work, etc. If your intentions weren't good water and this word, I'd get a pair of ears when I hear "the capital." He says we're one country, and how can one state have two capitals? Why isn't there a "administrative center" left? If we say "administrative centre", there's the headquarters of the administration of a particular region, as others will be, but it can't be "main". That "main" is the parallel of many's ears, so you've been trading for days to marry that "main" and to please those who were for it. Of course, the government of Vojvodina will run its policy and enter into agreements with the regions, and without the consent of the Republic of Serbia will have the property, and the Republic of Serbia has created that property. How is that possible and why is he running away from the Republic of Serbia? It won't take long and the appetites of those who pushed this will grow, they will grow very quickly and move on. They won't stop here and this isn't their goal. Appetites go, that's what happened in Montenegro. Appetizers immediately grew, and it immediately started with some simple majority, who knows in what way security would come up with a referendum. I doubt it, I have the right to doubt it, and I suspect that the institutions of Serbia, as well as the state of Serbia, will be at risk. Therefore, this is not well-meaning. I don't trust those who weigh this. I'd love to believe Bojana Pitiæ, but I don't trust him. He never showed me I could trust him. I don't trust people who fight for this. Why? They shut down the concession, the largest investment in Serbia, shut down the construction of a highway through Serbia, to connect the whole of Serbia with Montenegro, shut down many projects that did not suit them and did what does not show some good intentions. Gentlemen, these evil intentions remind us to think about all this. I know the DS was ahead of the shooting, and there were two currents. I know that the duchess did all his work, and they said, "Or, or you're lying down on the ore." Therefore, there is also a certain responsibility for all of this if tomorrow is not good, and responsibility is taken over by those who imposed this on one small majority who imposed Serbia. Don't repeat every minute in the news that there's a huge majority behind this. No, the vast majority of Serbian citizens are against this, I'm convinced of that. The vast majority of the people of Vojvodina are against this. And I'm convinced of that. Therefore, do not cover yourself with any majority, when you promised Serbia towers and cities, as well as Vojvodina, when you promised 200,000 jobs, when you promised a strong and stable village, a large production and export, a reduction in imports, when you promised that Mercedes factories, Be-em-ve, Folcvagen, Fijat, that everything would shine on Serbia, will come 'Boing', of which there is nothing, and all of it has failed at this moment and it does not exist. Now you have nothing to promise...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-25-0.u31588	People's MP, the time at your disposal has been used. National MP Zoran Ostojić wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word on the basis of Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-25-0.u31589	Dear Mrs. Komic, colleagues and colleagues, it seems to me somehow that if this Assembly violates the Constitution, that it is a violation of the Rules of Procedure and a violation of the dignity of the Assembly, it means Article 104. Mr Ilic, who advocates respect for the Constitution and believes that the statute is against the constitution, which is absolutely legitimate, uses the term "cyrilical letter" all the time. I'm saying this more for the citizens. The constitution, which was brought to such a large majority, except for LDP, in Article 10, where the language and the letter are spoken, says item 1 - In the Republic of Serbia, the official use of the Serbian language and the Cyrillic letter. So the constitutional name of our Cyrillic is Cyrillic, not Cyrillic. One who does not use a constitutional name violates the Constitution. I'm certainly saying this more because of the citizens and as another argument as to what the Constitution is.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-25-0.u31590	People's MP, there's no breach of article 104. Regardless of what the Constitution has prescribed one form of word - Cyrillic, it is in use both Cyrillic, Cyrillic and other forms, so there are no injuries to the Rules of Procedure. The People's MP, Free Maras, is asking to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure. Oh, no? There's obviously been a mistake in the register. National MP Nada Kolundzija has the word, the authorised representative of the parliamentary group, the president of the ZES parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-25-0.u31591	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, everyone who has been sitting here for more than a month, we are aware that whenever arguments disappear, then the heavy words, the accusations, the personal disqualifications, the attacks, the threats, the sowing of fear are withdrawn. We have heard so many terrible words during this debate that every serious man thinks about whether he would ever say them in his life, not if he would direct them to someone else. Except, of course, that I think it's a violation of the Rules of Procedure and that it's irresponsible, I think it's really a lack of argument. This is about us deciding today on the separatism that will lead to the secession of the part of our territory tomorrow. We are talking here today about applying the Constitution and respecting the constitutional obligations that lie ahead. Of course, it can be polluted and whether the act we are discussing today contains something that is not in accordance with the Constitution, and that is legitimate, and whether the act that we are discussing today contains in itself what is an element of statehood that can open up once to someone for separatist ambitions. Of course, then it would be correct to discuss both when and how separatism arises and whether separatism is necessary for the fact that around one city and the definition of that city exists or there is no point. So is that enough for a future possible threatening secession? When we analyze everything we've heard like this, then we can really say that there is a high degree of political irresponsibility towards our own citizens. This political irresponsibility is reflected in the fact that no one here has been sent to scare citizens, no one has been sent here to deceive citizens, no one has been sent here to present to citizens those data that are incorrect. So here we are talking about an act called the AP Vojvodina Statute. The Statute of the AP Vojvodina, Article 185. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which adopted Serbia in the referendum, says the highest legal act of the autonomous province is the statute. The Statute of the autonomous province brings its congregation, with the previous consent of the National Assembly. That's what's happening. The Autonomous Province Assembly has established a proposal, delivered to the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and we are today discussing a decision on granting consent to the act, which, with full respect for the constitutional procedure, has arrived in this house. It is said here that every provision in this statute is unconstitutional, not because it is written, but because someone evil, the worst Serb or something else, could, no matter what it says in the Constitution, which is prescribed in the statute, to abuse. Then they ask you a question -- who can trust the team that are in the Vojvodina Assembly, who can trust those who are in the Serbian Parliament, who can trust the judges of the Constitutional Court? The citizens trust us. Unfortunately for you, and on their behalf, we are finishing this very important, constitutionally prescribed job. The best way to talk about this act is to keep the statutes in parallel, on the one hand, and the Constitution, on the other hand. [[Applause]] So, the AP Vojvodina has legal status. Article 176. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia says the following -- an autonomous province and units of local self-government have legal personality status. So the part called "autonomous province territory", which has been challenged and questioned here, and which is trying to present how this creates an instrument for secession, says that the territory of the AP Vojvodina cannot be changed without the consent of its citizens expressed in the referendum. Article 182. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, paragraph 4, says this - the territory of autonomous provinces and the conditions under which the border between autonomous provinces can be changed is determined by law; the territory of autonomous provinces cannot be changed without the consent of its citizens of a referendum, in accordance with the law. The section on whether there is supervision and the possibility for Serbia to supervise the work of the autonomous province, therefore, in Article 12(2). The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, it says, and this is literally translated into the statutes, that the right of one of these members is subject only to the supervision of constitutionality and legality, as it stands in the Constitution. So, when we talk about whether they have the right of the citizens of the AP Vojvodina to represent themselves freely, i.e. to direct autonomy, whether the citizens of Vojvodina are part of their sovereignty, as citizens, transfer to the AP Vojvodina and what that means. Then in Article 176. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, item 1, says this - citizens have the right to province autonomy and local self-government, which are directly realising, we know what forms of direct democracy, those who know, or through their freely elected representatives. In the Statute of Vojvodina, it says that citizens exercise their right to province autonomy directly, through a national initiative or a referendum and through their freely elected representatives. The right of autonomous province has been attacked here, and some dark intention has been found, that an autonomous province, as very often said here, grabs part of state jurisdiction and in the work relating to the symbols of the autonomous province, I just want to remind myself of Article 183(2). The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which unequivocally says -- autonomous provinces determine the symbols of the province and the way they are used. That's what the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia says. The Statute says – the AP Vojvodina has its symbols and defines which they are. The constitution gives the autonomous province the right to have symbols, on the one hand, and to define them on its own. The constitutionality of provisions relating to the assets of the AP Vojvodina has been questioned here. Article 87. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia said: "The property of autonomous provinces and units of local self-government, the way it is used and available are regulated by law. ''The constitution recognises the property of an autonomous province and says it will be regulated by a law that otherwise defines the issue of property. We know that this law is yet to be passed and that this law will define what it is the property of the Republic of Serbia and what the property of autonomous provinces, or local self-government, is. One of the more serious attacks on this statute is regarding provisions concerning interregional co-operation. Article 181 The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia says "Autonomic provinces and units of local self-government co-operate with relevant territorial communities and units of local self-government of other states within the framework of the foreign policy of the Republic of Serbia, with respect for territorial unity and legal order of the Republic of Serbia". What does the statute say? "Vojvodina co-operates with territorial communities and other forms of autonomy of other states within the external policy of the Republic of Serbia and with the obligation to respect its territorial unity and legal order. “ These are definitions that are directly taken over from the Constitution and, in fact, in a literal sense, involve the implementation of the Constitution. The statute is not a Constitution, the statute is an act governed by the rights and competences given by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Protecting the province's autonomy; to what extent was the Constitution's intention to bring the autonomy of Vojvodina not only into reality, but also to provide mechanisms to protect the autonomy. So, the Constitution envisioned mechanisms to protect autonomy, in this case the autonomy of the Vojvodina. Article 187(1) states: “The order laid down by the Statute of the Autonomous Province shall have the right to appeal to the Constitutional Court if, by means of a single act or action of the state body of the local self-government, the jurisdiction of the Autonomous Province is prevented. “ This same provision is in the statute. The constitution said there is a possibility of a constitutional appeal in the event that a body violates the jurisdiction or rights defined by the Constitution when it comes to the province. Article 18 of the Statute states: ‘They shall have the right to appeal to the Constitutional Court if, by means of an individual act or action by a state body or body of a unit of local self-government, it makes it impossible to exercise the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina. “ At the same time, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia in Article 181(2) states: ‘The assembly of the AP Vojvodina or the Government of the AP Vojvodina may initiate a procedure for the assessment of the constitutionality or legality of the law and of the second general act of the Republic of Serbia or a general act of the unit of local self-government which violates the right to province autonomy. ''This provision is contained in Article 187(2). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia – an authority designated by the Statute of the Autonomous Province can initiate a procedure for the assessment of the constitutionality or legality of the laws and other general act of the Republic of Serbia or a general act of the unit of local self-government which violates the right to province autonomy and so on. All members of the statutes are literally applying the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. I am sorry that some who advocated a unitary state, which some say is rude or unnatural within their own state to seek autonomy, were not aware that the Constitution, which they were particularly proud of, which they were extremely politically pleased to have participated in and voted for, predicted all of this in the Statute of the AP Vojvodina today. In that sense, perhaps your debate would have made sense if you had now admitted that you had made a mistake, that you didn't want such a constitution, that you didn't think at all that autonomy should exist, that you didn't think that Serbia should be a civil state, that you don't think that in that country all its citizens should be equal, that they should be more citizens, both those in the first order and those in the second row. But I must disappoint you, of course, you can launch this debate and you can launch an initiative to change the Constitution, but this constitution has defined Serbia as a civil state, whose holders are Serbian citizens' sovereignty. This constitution has defined Serbia as a democratic state that has a serious constitution that sets out that Serbia is a country that will be decentralised, that will decentralised its power and decentralised its power, and this is the Constitution which to this extent clearly envisioned what is all the contents of Vojvodina's autonomy, that neither you nor some who might want and more of these contents have much space to pay for it. This constitution is quite precise and I think it's not right that what's being drawn from the context and what's being presented as unconstitutional is actually falsifying constitutional provisions.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-25-0.u31592	Ambassador Aleksandar Martinovic wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets his word on Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-25-0.u31593	With all due respect to Mrs. Nadia Kolundjia as a lady, Article 104 has been injured. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly because Mrs Nada Kolundzija made a whole series of lies about the SRS' views and completely misrepresented to the citizens what the Serbian Radical Party told about the proposal for the Vojvodina Statute. In two minutes, I can't answer all of Mrs. Hope Kolundji's lies, but here, Mrs. Kolundjia, I'll accept everything you've said...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-25-0.u31594	People's MP, you haven't broken the line, you've been given the right to speak of the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-25-0.u31595	That's exactly what I'm explaining.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-25-0.u31596	The People's Parliament of Hope Kolundji has not mentioned a part of its presentation to any part of the SRS...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-25-0.u31597	Can I try to explain what I wanted to say in two minutes?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-25-0.u31598	People's MP, you're required to listen to instructions when you're wrong and when you're close to breaking the Rules of Procedure. The People's Parliament did not mention, at any time during its presentation, or by any other means, the violation of the Rules of Procedure of any matter concerning the position of the SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-25-0.u31599	Can I explain in two minutes what I wanted to say?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-25-0.u31600	People's MP, you're required to listen.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-25-0.u31601	I'm trying, I don't know otherwise, how I know and I can.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-25-0.u31602	The way to listen is not to talk at the same time. That's the way, I'm talking, you're listening.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-25-0.u31603	I'm talking, and you're interrupting me.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-25-0.u31604	Thank you, People's Messenger. Since all presidents and authorised representatives have exercised their rights, I would like to inform you that, under Article 93(4), they are, in accordance with Article 93(4). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, until the opening of the search, the application for a word in writing, and with the order of MPs, submitted parliamentary groups: the LPD parliamentary group, the New Serbia MP group, the SPS-JS parliamentary group, the DSS parliamentary group, the G17 plus, the Progressive Serbia parliamentary group, the ZES parliamentary group, the SRS parliamentary group. Are these all MPs' groups? Yeah. ) On the basis of Article 93(3), the People's MP, Jovan Damjanovic, has the floor. Talk to me once or five minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-25-0.u31605	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Democratic Left of Roma has a comment on Article 24, concerning national minorities, since in this home I am representing the national minority of the Roma community. Article 24(1) prescribes the necessity that members of the national communities in the province should be represented in proportion to their representation in the population in the field of work in the province's authorities and organisations. The other views of this member are provided that the Government of the AP Vojvodina is obliged to take the decisions of the Regional Assembly to take specific actions with a view to achieving proportionate representation in the event of disproportionate representation of members of different national communities in these bodies. We believe that the current situation on this issue is proportionate to the representation of members of the different national communities in the AP Vojvodina is not satisfactory and that so far the activities on this plan have obviously not been sufficient. We therefore believe that such a formalised provision of this article is not sufficient to achieve this declared objective. We therefore believe that in the attitude of the 1st member, the word should be replaced by the word – the sea. In this way, the Regional Assembly and the Government would be obliged to have mechanisms to achieve the proportionate representation of national communities as a permanent obligation, not just as a need to achieve this objective. I must point out that there has been no harmonisation of the position around the Statutes of the AP Vojvodina, and I believe it will not come. The Democratic Left of Roma will not take part in the decision, but will leave the MPs of the majority people in this house as they decide.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-25-0.u31606	The word has a folk MP, Judita Popovic, followed by a national MP, Aleksandra Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-25-0.u31607	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the LDP in the voting day will give support to this statute, as it will also vote for a bill establishing jurisdiction. We support these two acts not because we believe that they are the same good, but we believe that they are in fact the result of Serbia's real position today, the real situation in society and the real state of affairs as regards the Constitution of the prescribed powers which can be established by law for the province of Vojvodina, as well as the state of the nation as regards the compromise and the common objective of decentralisation of the state. I think it will agree that the issue of Vojvodina's autonomy is actually the first question – are we going to go through decentralisation, which is the assumption of democratisation of state and society? By listening to the debates yesterday and today, I can only conclude that it comes from different angles, that things are viewed by taking them out of context, that they are given an explanation that corresponds to a particular political interest, and that it forgets what the Statutes mean for Vojvodina and what they mean are determined responsibilities for the citizens and citizens of Vojvodina. I would like first of all to underline that the three reasons that are in fact completely disabling any separatism, which could be mentioned in terms of the statutes, or the law on determining jurisdiction. The first reason would be because we have the continuity of autonomy, counting on the 1991 Statute of the province of Vojvodina. This continuity literally erases the autonomy of Vojvodina, which actually existed until the 1991 Statute. The 1991 Statute, as a zero point that literally wiped out essential autonomy from the text of the Statute of the province of Vojvodina, is that criterion and the standard from which the story of the present-day Statute of Vojvodina begins. Unfortunately, the 1991 statute literally put Vojvodina under custody, and that Statute of Vojvodina, it lost its autonomy formally and legally, not to mention that it had been without autonomy for the past three years. The Vojvodina, to remind you, had both judicial and executive and legislative authority by 1991. By 1991, Vojvodina had also the PIO Fund, and the Health Insurance Fund, and Vojvodina had ''Oftaga, who had headquarters and a jury account in Novi Sad, and this 'Naftagas', which accounts for 95% of NIS followers, has now moved into the majority ownership of a foreign state-owned company. So, it's not the Vojvodina who deprived herself of her wealth, but I think it was done precisely in this assembly when the interstate agreement was confirmed. If we start from the fact that the Vojvodina has no autonomy since 1991, then we can conclude that the conditions have matured that the situation is changing, and so has the Vojvodina Assembly when it established the draft statutes. The LDP does not have the right to cancel this Duke's will in any way, and we are obliged to respect that will. That's one of the reasons we're going to support that statute. The second condition that actually makes it impossible for this separatism that's been talked about so much about the statutes, it's the Constitution itself. I would remind you of article 182, which essentially does not predict Vojvodina. Essential autonomy is intended only for the KIM Region, normally and to be regulated later by law. But the Vojvodina doesn't have any essential autonomy under that constitution either. That's actually our main reason for criticizing this statute and, in fact, the law on established competencies, which Vojvodina doesn't get essential autonomy with these acts either. So, if this constitution does not foresee essential autonomy, the next reason it effectively disables, again I mention, secession, or separatism, is centralism. Centralism is actually the pain that is present in all the pores of this society. A territorial organisation, a government organisation, all this suggests that Serbia is a highly centralised state. If so, in that case we cannot talk about any decentralisation and serious autonomy, and even less about separatism, or secession. When I mention the Statute of the province of 1991, I would especially like to draw your attention to the fact that even in this statute, Article 3, a referendum statement of citizens and citizens of Vojvodina is envisaged. So that referendum statement is not as much a sin as it is marked here during the discussion yesterday and today. All in all, the statutes and laws on the agenda of this assembly are just one first step behind which should follow the next steps to decentralisation the state, because decentralisation is also needed for central Serbia, not that national agencies, services and others address every burning issue of Serbian citizens. Decentralisation is also needed by Voždovac municipality, and the municipality of Kosjerić, and the town of Novi Sad, and the town of Zrenjanin, because this centralisation that is so present in Serbia has led to this Voždovac being built in such a chaotic way, without any control, without any vision, without plans and programmes, to be a dehumanized settlement, far enough that there is no benefiti of the capital, and close enough not to enjoy the little independence that has possibly other municipalities and other cities in Serbia. Thus, the statute as such must be supported precisely in the interests of citizens, in order to finally put an end to the story of separatism and secession and to move into a new chapter on Serbia's decentralisation and democratisation. In the voting day, the LDP will also support the statutes and the law on established competencies.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-25-0.u31608	It was used 10 minutes from the time of the parliamentary group, it is available for another 4 minutes and 24 seconds. National MP Aleksandra Jankovic has a word, followed by MP Milisav Petronijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-25-0.u31609	The current draft law laying down the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina is the key evidence that the debate that has been under way for more than a year has been held on the subject of the unconstitutional proposal of the Vojvodina Statute. Of course, the real public debate was lagging behind, i.e. it was falsified. But the conclusion is undeniable. This statute is in its being separatist. So, you lied to us then, and you're lying to us now, when you say that the new bill and statutes of the Constitution fell out, like from the pupils of the state. As you have lied to us and lied to the southern province of KIM, you are now also lying about the northern-Vojvodina. Is there an end to your false promises and good intentions leading us to the hell of Serbia's dispersion? You've left the south, you've been working in the north, and the Law on Prohibiting Discrimination I guess you've adopted to avoid being discriminated against by the world in creating new states in the state of Serbia. Yesterday, in preparation for the discussion, I did what you actually wanted me to do. You actually want "Kosovo is Serbia" to be written "and Vojvodina", and then "and Raska", and -- three points, until you bring Serbia down to Belgrade Pashalu or what you Europeans would say, very integratedly, Belgrayd d'you are. What is your agenda, or schedule, for foreign mentors? Find us and enlighten us. In 2008, your schedule was KiM. In 2009, you have the hour of the Duke, and we fear justly, since you are not physically working, that by the time you and Raska are baptized in the state of Sandzak, it will be relatively little time. Perhaps you are not the idea makers of a plan to disperse the state in which Serbs live. But what's certain is that no one will wash you out of responsibility for complicity in the crime of breaking down their own country and their own people. Of course, here, first of all, I mean the yellow part of the light coalition, because you're the axis of power, and these tortured red ones don't have much choice, since they've been in the Socialist International with you, while the green ones are just resting their eyes, waiting for their moment. The adoption of the statutes of Vojvodina, following Serbia's new 2006 constitution, was supposed to be the first step in the process of legal denouncing the province's autonomy. That was supposed to be a purely legal question. Under the influence of external pressures and, which authentically, which calculant separatism in DS, something that was supposed to be a legal issue has turned into a serious state issue. So, instead of defining the autonomy of Vojvodina within the current Serbian Constitution, the current government determines that autonomy outside, giving Vojvodina as a unit of territorial autonomy within the state of Serbia, elements of statehood, turning it into a state in the country, says Dr Vojislav Kostunica, a man who has not agreed to blackmail and calculations, but has returned the mandate to the people, has become one of the few people who, since there has been parliamentary democracy in Serbia, have voluntarily come down from power. Of course, along with him and NS President Velimir Ilic. Despite all these cosmetic treatments, which you have conducted in recent days and which have experienced this bill on determining jurisdiction and the proposal for a statute, above all with the aim of removing responsibility for the adoption of these acts from the work of the ruling coalition that has so far opposed their adoption, there is no doubt that the essence of these acts remains not only anti-constitutional but also deeply harmful to all citizens of Serbia, as Velimir Ilic spoke earlier. To make things worse, this is the rain you, i.e. we have a chance to see again what has already been seen in the process of separating Montenegro and the common state with Serbia. This means the opening of international representations to provide external support for separatism, then to highlight state symbols, such as the establishment of the government of Vojvodina, and to create a special national identity through the Latin letter and its own Academy of Sciences. The possibility of making international agreements is not yet unknown in complex states, consisting of federal and confederal units, or even autonomous provinces, such as. Catalonia in Spain, but always with the consent of the Central Government. Entities which independently conclude international agreements in legal theory but also in practice become entities of international law, and the capacity to conclude such agreements is one of the basic characteristics of statehood. Therefore, the provinces are entrusted with powers that are traditionally part of state sovereignty, although it is euphemistically said here that it is international agreements and representation in the regions of Europe, or Brussels. What does that mean in Brussels, since Brussels is the capital of Belgium, but also the EU and the Atlantic Pact headquarters? Interestingly, in a month's time, let's say that in Brussels, Prime Minister Pajtic or some other article, a resident official of Vojvodina, signed an interregional agreement. Will Serbia's and Prime Minister Cvetkovic be informed about this? Maybe it's not a good example because the Serbian Prime Minister doesn't get too involved in his job, and he has shown that he won't mind that when Clooney winks, he agrees to be everything Canak wants. Very nice, we will no longer have one prime minister, but they will multiply in geometric progression, with only one condition -- that the Clooney remains our only, greatest son of all peoples and peoples, and these peoples and ethnicities will be multiplied by geometric progression. The more we get nervous, the more Serbia may be torn apart, but we will meet again in the EU. By handling that logic, which would be exciting when someone dies or leaves us permanently when we will all be together again after the resurrection. Yes, it's true, we Christians wait for the life of the future century, but not by deciding not to do anything, drink, drug, in principle -- relaxed and easy, but by trying to make sure everything we do here echoes in our eternity. For such a conclusion, we should not be academics of the famous Vojvodina Academy of Sciences and Arts, VANU, which the villains say was invented to find in it those who break for SANA. The good news for Tomica, perhaps for Mira Markovic, is that if she is nostrified, she is recently acquired the academia's calling, and the best for various masters of European sciences, such as Miss Jerkov, and similar titles that are unknown in the Serbian academic world. I don't think I have to remind people of my generation, but it's no shame to mention it because of the younger ones, that just before the yoghurt of the revolution was one of the symbols and the important pillars of the autonomous regional bureaucracy, which the citizens had thrown down in the revolution at the end of the 1980s. What I have to warn even Tomica, who was misrepresented in the prevention of H1N1 virus, and an even greater chance of swallowing and the virus of secessionism, is that according to the current Constitution, the fields of science and technology are exclusively within Serbia's jurisdiction. This warning from the pandemic of secessionism also applies to all yellow "small Tomica" who know there is no immunity to the responsibility of the offspring, but also to the ancestors. Speaking of ancestors, one of the founders of the Serbian state, Saint Simeon Mirocivi leaves another founder of our country to Saint Savi's legacy: "Beware, my child, language as a country. The word can be lost as the city, as the earth, as the soul. And what is the people if they lose their tongue, their land, their souls? Lands and states are conquered not only by swords, but also by languages. Know that the enemy has conquered you as much as he has conquered you and subdued how many words he has spent and spent. A people who lose their words cease to be a people." This is just one piece. The question is indeed which of the duchy languages and Latins speak of our dear autonomouss at all. About the one who's supposed to fight Serbs with Serbia, wouldn't we be lost both as states and as people? Be honest, gentlemen of the government, and make a personal effort to convince your own people that you haven't turned against him and your own state, because there's still hope that there won't be a pandemic of the Separatism virus. Another interesting thing is that it is very important for Serbia's spirituality to be moved to more than 150 meters from school, and it is even better that it is planned to be more than two kilometers away. But what's the point when in the immediate vicinity there are media that have teletext functions for all who yearn to bet? I am very interested in the quota for the separation of the state of Vojvodina from the state of Serbia, or it is again the achievement of gender equality because both Serbia and Vojvodina are female. The cube itself is a disease of addiction, but it is also an irresponsible government, a purely addictive question: the higher and higher the level of uncontrollable government, the more the state of consciousness changed, immune to all appeals, the ones coming from the people, academics or from the church. A year ago, as many as 64 academics and dozens of prominent citizens, university professors...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-25-0.u31610	People's MPs, your MP's time has been used. The People's Messenger Milisav Petronijevic has the word, followed by the MP Slobodan Samardzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-25-0.u31611	The President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the position of the SPS-JS parliamentary group on the proposal for a decision to give its consent to the Statute of the AP Vojvodina has been given on behalf of my comrade Dusan Bajatovic, which is why we are doing so and just to repeat: the SPS-JS parliamentary group will vote in a voting day to give its consent to the proposal for the Statute of the AP Vojvodina. I'll try a few more sentences to explain the SPS's position on this. First of all, I'd like to start with what's causing this new statute. The reason for the adoption of a new statute is to comply with the provisions of the new RS Constitution, for provisions relating to the position and jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina. That's the main reason. It's also a distraction, and that's the answer to the question -- how much autonomy? As much as prescribed by the Constitution. The assembly of the AP Vojvodina was obliged by the Constitutional Law to establish the draft statutes three months after the constitution and deliver it to the National Assembly for prior consent. The assembly of the AP Vojvodina did so on 14 October 2008. To be considered, a single law was missing, a law establishing the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina. I must say, I would like to say that, let's say, after the adoption of the Constitution in 2006, it was in 2007 that I immediately passed that law establishing jurisdiction. I don't know what it isn't, but it's not. It would have been a lot easier if he'd been brought in. At that time, it should already be taken into account when laying down a proposal for a statute to comply with that law. So he wasn't brought in. From the establishment of the draft statutes of the AP Vojvodina to this final text, in our opinion, two things are characteristic. First, the government drafted a bill establishing the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina. In that period, the proposed statute also appeared to the professional public. On 7 November, the assembly of the AP Vojvodina, in its session to comply with the proposal for a law establishing the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina, which has already been established by the government, agreed. At that time, in addition to the Regional Council, the SPS proposed six amendments, with the aim of bringing it into line with the proposal for a law establishing jurisdiction. The amendments, in addition to the Regional Executive Council, have been adopted by all political partners who make up power in Vojvodina, and we are pleased with that. Why? Because, in our opinion, there are doubts about the unconstitutional nature of certain provisions and disagreements with this law. Because we think it's a good thing the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina respected the voice of the profession that was heard before. When we talked about it, we had in mind the following attitude that was, which was and will always be the attitude of the SPS - the autonomy of the highest possible degree according to the Constitution, yes, the state does not. Limited only by that, we expressed our position and fought for it. And when it comes to the statutes of the AP Vojvodina, we have watched through it, as well as the law on determining jurisdiction, whether the highest degree of autonomy that is in line with today's Constitution is foreseen, as much as the Constitution allows. That is why we have advocated it, and we have supported it. I think, above all, in yesterday's debate, our representatives here made very clear our commitment, explaining both the essence of autonomy and the content of autonomy, removing the fear that this could lead to separatism, through the fact that everywhere the jurisdiction is transferred, the government appears as a supervisor. We confirmed our position that we are for the highest degree of autonomy within the Constitution, and that, in our opinion, in the framework of the Constitution, it was our commitment to submit these amendments. Our pledge, our position to keep him in line with the Constitution, is no trade, no blackmail whatsoever. It's the simplest attitude we've ever had and we'll always have. Third, our position when it comes to the fact that Vojvodina, AP, has no elements of statehood. If we look at how it is in the final text, and it is on the agenda today, as the AP Vojvodina Assembly delivered to us, we can see that the AP Vojvodina is an inalienable part of Serbia. We can see that there is no international subjectivity of the Vojvodina, no signing of international contracts. There is no representation without the consent of the Government, in accordance with the Constitution and the law. We can see that the AP Vojvodina Assembly has no legislative authority, no decisions that have the power of the law. I would briefly list, in four or five places, the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina, in line with the bill's proposal, when it comes to Article 9, is talking about the symbols, added in accordance with the Constitution, when it comes to Article 11 on property, 27 on jurisdiction, 62 and 63 on incomes, and not to mention further, is standing in accordance with the law everywhere. We draw conclusions from that, and that's how we perform, this act doesn't provide a basis for separatism, we don't say it has, whether it will be, it doesn't just depend on it. But the act doesn't provide the basis for such a thing. This act, like the law yesterday, is, we think, in the highest extent that the Constitution, what it is, to predict already been put into law and into this act. For these reasons, given that the AP Vojvodina does not have any legislative, judicial, executive, or international subjectivity, that property, its own income, but under the law and that I do not list any further, we believe that the possibility of consent being given on the proposal of the Statute, and that it does not provide grounds for having elements of statehood. I want to be clear here, this is our political position, this is our political opinion, as well as all of us today who talk about it. Of course, I respect the profession of everyone, but the only measuring authority who can appreciate whether something is constitutional or not is the Constitutional Court and I expect that it will also give the final word. I think it's important because of the citizens of Serbia. His has to be respected. If it's against the constitution, it'll stop working. That decision must also respect the assembly of the AP Vojvodina, and the National Assembly and all of us. We, sending a message to the public, through this political stance, repeat once again, the SPS will never allow, as I speak, the statehood of the AP Vojvodina. They will never allow the state of 1974, but they will also advocate the highest degree of autonomy, which we have shown, restricted only by the Constitution. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-25-0.u31612	The authorized time of the parliamentary group is 12 minutes and 30 seconds. The word has a folk MP, Slobodan Samardzic. After that, MP Nikola Novakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-25-0.u31613	The honourable MPs, the shortest and simplest diagnosis of this proposal of the statutes and that of yesterday's bill we discussed yesterday, are that it is a mechanism for making a state in the country. I'll try to explain it. First of all, this mechanism implies that both the statutes and, consequently, the law, since it was made under the statutes, go outside Serbia's Constitution in many elements and assume independently many attributes of jurisdiction and functions of the state. statehood. For a long time, Vojvodina was in a confederal relationship with Serbia, until the 1990s, constitutionally speaking, or until 1991, when it won the statute. Only this structure was a joint confederation, the former Yugoslavia. All republics, especially the AP, had many elements of statehood. At the end of the line, the AP was then constitutionally known as a element of federalism, if you remember correctly. What's happening today is actually getting that process back. Delivery to the Vojvodina in various ways of many elements of the constitutional and constitutional which are, not only unconstitutional, but also state. That's why I want to say something about it. Namely, the very way that Vojvodina got these powers or how it gets them, through the statutes, which he gave himself, because that's the source of Vojvodina's jurisdiction, is one not federal, but a confederal element. The confederal elements of the state are determined by the fact that they determine their own responsibilities, and that is done by this Statute of the Vojvodina. The fact that the law on determining jurisdiction has been prescribed by that jurisdiction does not affect this diagnosis. The statute, by attributing itself to the authority of the state, established the constituent elements of the Vojvodina that are jumping out of Serbia's Constitution. Vojvodina's constituents are citizens of the Vojvodina and of the national community. No such category exists in the Serbian Constitution. In the Constitution of Serbia, there are citizens of Serbia, as you know, and there are citizens and national minorities. These national communities are an absolute stranger to the Constitution. In Article 6 of the Vojvodina Statute, national communities are listed, and it starts with Serbs and ends with a sixth or seventh national community, and then it is said that national communities are something that should be adequate to what are national minorities in the Constitution of Serbia. Therefore, such interpretation, analogous, which is of course limited but possible, and Serbs in Vojvodina as members of the national community are a national minority. It's a notional and categorical mess, and a termological one that no one can divulge, but it's important that Vojvodina has its constituent elements. Then Vojvodina, according to the statute that gave himself jurisdiction, has a limited possibility of international bargaining. Those agreements that she can sign in the area of interregional co-operation, she can also sign without the consent of the Serbian government. It is a fundamental element that both in the Federations today and in regional states exists when federal units or regions have this limited right to international bargaining. The government of Vojvodina, a state element that does not exist in the Serbian Constitution, then holds the executive power of Vojvodina. Vojvodina is responsible for sustainable economic, etc. development. Only Serbia is responsible under the Constitution of Serbia, and its authorities, for sustainable economics, etc. development. There are other attributes I won't repeat anymore for saving time. As for the jurisdiction that the statute has assigned itself, and not in the Constitution of Serbia, they are also numerous. I only mention some – regional development, science and technological development, the establishment of the Vojvodina Academy of Sciences and Arts, the official use of languages and letters, the proposal of a network of courts in the territory of the AP Vojvodina, giving an opinion on the change of the Constitution regarding the position, rights and duties of the AP Vojvodina. You do not have any of this in the Constitution of Serbia, and these powers are in the statutes. These are the national powers that the statute itself has given itself, i.e. The duchess herself. When it comes to state functions that the statute has seized itself, without constitutional basis, creating a state in the state, are also numerous. I'll just count a few, as I've done so far. Vojvodina can or the government of Vojvodina, instead of the Serbian government, enforce Serbia's laws on the territory of Vojvodina, issue an act implementing Serbia's law if Serbia has not passed it. The so-called relations between the institutions of Vojvodina and Serbia are established so-called A mixed commission, which the Constitution does not know, which should settle political misunderstandings and disputes between the two state leaderships -- Vojvodina and Serbia. The Statute gives itself the authority to entrust Vojvodina with some of its competences to the council of national minorities. According to the Constitution, Vojvodina can only do this to units of local self-government and no one else. It explicitly writes here – to the advice of national minorities. When we have all this in mind, therefore, I have listed only some elements of attributes, jurisdiction and function of statehood, it is quite clear that Vojvodina is a federal unit according to this proposal of statute at the very least. She is a federal unit in Serbia and she is, secondly, the only federal unit. It's an additional problem because the Federations usually have more federal units and that's why they're Federations, and there's some kind of internal balance between federal units. There's no balance here on the horizontal level with anyone. There's a state in the country. In a manageable sense, the matter will look as follows -- the laws Serbia makes will be implemented in one way in the rest of Serbia, and in another in Vojvodina. In Vojvodina, the laws in the area of jurisdiction that the statute has attracted will only be implemented as Serbia's framework laws. All other steering functions are being transferred to the authorities of Vojvodina, and these same laws will be fully implemented only in the rest of Serbia. We have Vojvodina as a federal unit and the rest of Serbia that has no legal definition. Does that remind you of anything? Yeah, it's the 74th Constitution. At the time, Serbia had no legal provision, and it was a partner of Vojvodina or Vojvodina's partner in its mutual relations. You gentlemen are going to the future by going back to the past. You're back in the '80s and '70s mode. We saw this in one discussion today as the most desirable need. There's a state in the state, and when a real state in the state breaks the Constitution, it's a real separatism and there's no other objective expression for such a procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-25-0.u31614	Eight minutes and 40 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. The People's MP Nikola Novakovic has the word, followed by MP Otto Kishmarton.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-25-0.u31615	My ladies Members of Parliament and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have even shorter words for introduction, and that is the rain you, as the French would say, have already seen. It's just that there's been a spontaneous merger of the agenda points that convinces me that we're on the right track. They asked me, am I satisfied with the statute? Of course not. He says - so you're unhappy. Of course not. He says, "What are you like?" That's right. It's a paraphrase of a beautiful duchess joke. It's just because it's so set up under the Constitution. The constitution is what it is. The constitution is ours, and what is scariest in the whole story during these discussions and debates is that, I am convinced, the cheapest Serbian word is produced, precisely from the constituents and the founders, and that is the word "unconstitutional". It's so unconstitutional that I just can't imagine this little book called the Constitution that it's possible just as lifely in every step of the way to break it. It's not possible, of course, and it's neither unconstitutional nor it's a good constitution, but it's the Constitution and it's about it today to waste words is absolutely immaterial. Could we have discussed the Duke's statutes faster and sooner? Of course we are, but let's just remember these relations between Vojvodina and Belgrade, not insinuating any separation or separation. We had one problem all the time. From Vojvodina to Belgrade, whatever comes, comes somehow threatening and blackmailing and then, of course, when it gets here, what causes it? It causes arrogance, because stronger... This is the first time politics has changed completely. There is still room for change and that from Vojvodina comes before this highest house at last something that can't in any spelling sign, in any letter, characterise neither as blackmail, nor as a threat, nor as anything, except what is really in that statute and writing. So all those who were, wanted to be or are arrogant in essence and disarmed. They're not doing so well in that normal communication. I've read and heard a lot of smart ones in the meantime, and unfortunately, at least here, even though this is where it should be the most. Well, you know how, when you hear something very good and very nice or you read it, then you're sorry, that a nice subjective criterion, that you didn't think of it, that you wrote it or that you said it. So, without intending to kidnap copyrights, several thesis and my friends and some of the mental people here, I will say that all this noise and shouting around the statutes, in essence, so as not to be fooled, is intended to return Serbia to the political scene of hatred and to defuse Serbia and Serbia's citizens from decentralisation to the end. I'm also absolutely certain that the surprise we've been causing for two or three days, and it will only be, is that this policy no longer yields results. Canda doesn't work, canda doesn't. Those ideas are abandoned. Abandoned for the simple reason that Samuel Johnson, in half of the 18th century, has characterized politics and marked it as a systematic organization of hate. So it was a long time ago, and we want to look ahead. Ladies and gentlemen, we are at a political turning point regarding the future of our country's organisation. That is why very angry dissatisfactions grouped on one side, and every single sign of possible normalisation among them is caused by panic. That's normal, because the future of them as politicians is at stake. Separatism of anti-separatists - I like this very much. This oxymoron has become a functional part of the politics of empty stories. The compromise, the interculturality, not multiculturality, we want to live together, not apart from each other, and the richness of diversity, let us enjoy them, otherwise by carrying EU pillars, European cultures, and we should strive to do so. Does everything we can read today in the statutes and in terms of Serbia's future look like that? It looks like it. Today begins the future, not end it. There is a statute of merger in the work, not of dissociation, of the statute of development, not of discord. That's something to remember. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-25-0.u31616	Seven minutes 58 seconds spent from the time of the parliamentary group. The word of the messenger of the people is Otto Kishmarton, and after him is the messenger of Alexander Jerkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-25-0.u31617	Dear fellow Members of the People, Your Honor, I have recorded some of the thoughts of our MPs and I can say that I have been surprised and offended by some of them. Namely, it was Ambassador Bajatovic, when he spoke of the fact that this statute is no danger and cannot come with this statute to the secession of Vojvodina, because 'this statute was not written by national minorities'. Are national minorities a threat to the secession of the Vojvodina and are those forces that will separate the Vojvodina? It's an insult to me, such an opinion of national minorities. Also another sentence "this is a Serbian-Serbian issue. I don't think that Vojvodina is a Serbian-Serbian issue, here were full of mouths about the equality of citizens, about equality, regardless of religion, nationality. And now we're saying that the Duke's statute concerns only the Serbs, so this has offended me very much. Let's move on. There has been much talk about this statute today, but why has the congregation majority waited more than a year for this statute to come on the agenda, no one has spoken of it. So, what's causing it? As an explanation, the statute may have been late, may or may not have been, that decentralisation of the authorities has not been allowed until a transitional robbery in Serbia has been completed. It may also be that the Duke's statute, which Lala would say, is not quite right. What will bring to the peasants, workers and all who live in Vojvodina, no one speaks of it. Will it be better to live in Vojvodina, will thousands and thousands of workers be employed, will the strike of workers stop, will they work out closed factories in Vojvodina, will it be cheaper education, will it improve and improve good international relations with this Statute in Vojvodina, will health, schooling be improved, will it be a better position for farmers, or agriculture? That's not what anyone was talking about, because this statute is probably not going to contribute. The assembly majority has already reached an agreement on the adoption of the statutes and the law on the transfer of competencies and these acts will be adopted on behalf of Serbian citizens. Is the statute in the interest of Serbian citizens? No, but that's not what the Prime Minister was talking about yesterday. The Prime Minister in the opening statement, very briefly, did not say what it would be like for citizens living in Serbia by adopting the Vojvodina statutes and by adopting the law on the transfer of jurisdiction. What they will surely get is the financing of two governments: the province and the republican. And those who will get something from this statute, which is the political summit in Vojvodina, it is clear that they will gain stronger and greater independence and independence from the Republic by this law. Will the citizens living in the territory of the Vojvodina feel any improvement in this statute, will peasants and workers live better? He won't. Will this law improve the situation of the citizens of Kickinda, Choke, New Duke, Ade, Sente and other local self-government? He won't. Whether money from taxes, taxis, state issuings will mostly remain in these municipalities and thus enable the development of the Kickinda and other municipalities, as these municipalities have already become black holes today without any development. The number of inhabitants in these municipalities is rapidly reduced. All those who can leave the small towns and villages are leaving. Kikindu today leaves not only young people, and pensioners go after their children or to Novi Sad or Belgrade. I wonder if the government's goal is for all Serbian citizens to live in two cities -- Belgrade and Novi Sad, and local self-government to grow old and disappear. When we talk about decentralisation, jurisdiction from the Republic should be transferred to local self-government, tax money, taxis, renting state property should be largely kept in local self-governments, where they are achieved, and property to return to local self-government, not only to finance the development of Belgrade and Novi Sad. Construction of Belgrade and Novi Sad is fine and should be done, which is good, but on the other hand, local self-government is increasingly impoverishing, rapidly failing and disappearing, especially in the northern Banat border area. The decentralisation of the authorities is needed, and that is to be implemented to the level of local self-government, not the level of the province. It's up to us in kickinda, believe me, whether the money from kickinda goes to Novi Sad or Belgrade. My fellow Members, what is a big problem, and what scares me most and worries me about these laws, and time will show whether I am right or not, that even those who will vote for this law are not satisfied with the Statute and jurisdiction of the Vojvodina, but acknowledge, which is very important and significant, that at some point this is the most that Vojvodina can get under the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The change of the Constitution will make other changes regarding the position of Vojvodina.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-25-0.u31618	Seven minutes of MP time was used. The word has a folk letter from Aleksandra Jerkov, followed by MP Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-25-0.u31619	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament and the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, I think Vice President Novakic described this statute in the best words, which is that he is right. Just because he is just under the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, he is not exactly LSV, according to the citizens of the AP Vojvodina, and LSV and its MPs in this assembly will support the statute in the voting day. Of course, we think that this is only the beginning of what needs to be followed, not only when it comes to AP Vojvodina, but also other parts of the Republic of Serbia, I am referring above all to the adoption of other laws that should follow this act, these are the property law and the law on the original incomes of the AP Vojvodina. It's very difficult that during these two days, very few real arguments have been heard in this debate. What we had the opportunity to listen to was a lot of quasiarguments, accusations, misinformation, labels, non-recognition of matter, insults, very hard words, such as secessionism, separatism, separation, taking up functions, taking up some responsibilities that don't belong to someone. However, I think those accusations that have been made speak more of those who have brought them up than of those to whom they have been directed. We heard a lot of things that weren't appropriate to the facts. We have heard various accusations of loyal citizens, of those less loyal citizens, of decentralisation that should go from Belgrade, although in many parts it is contrary to the concept of decentralisation itself. We've heard a lot of flat-rate accusations about the creation of states in the country, we've heard about how Vojvodina should have small responsibilities and regions should have small responsibilities because local self-government should have higher powers, and yet that's exactly the kind of stuff that those during whose governments were deprived of all competences and all property. But what we have heard, perhaps the most dangerous, is that those who have delivered this statute to the Assembly are separatists. I would like to remind you that the statute was delivered to the Serbian Parliament by the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina, which does not have 120 separatists, but 120 MPs elected in the legitimate elections held in the AP Vojvodina. Sixty of these people were chosen by name and last name, therefore, in the majority elections, and these people did not deserve to be called separatists by anyone in this congregation. Because he who insults the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina, he insults representatives of the people of Vojvodina, who sit in that assembly and therefore insults the citizens of Vojvodina who voted for these same people. Of course, the LSV disagreed with the way this statute came to the Serbian Parliament. At that re-election in the Vojvodina Assembly, our MPs did not even participate, so we regret that the parliamentary possibilities did not allow those who held the re-election to turn to this assembly because we had a few questions to ask them. During the first vote, the LSV had several amendments, which really resulted in the adoption of the "dark one", which Nikola Novakovic spoke of, with the adoption of which the statute really pulled the most out of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which could have been extracted. However, it should be said in this place that they are not without responsibility for such a long path of statutes and those who wrote the Constitution, which had rocked the constitution, which had provided for very clear deadlines within which the Vojvodina Assembly should deliver to the Serbian Assembly a proposal for the statute, but did not provide for any deadline within which the Serbian Parliament should confirm, dispute or anything else to do with it, only not to ignore it in the way it has ignored it for a year. These same constituents did not predict what would happen, for example, if the Serbian Parliament did not accept the proposal Monday, whether it would be returned to the Vojvodina Assembly, which are deadlines for this to happen, so I think the situation in which we found ourselves is not solely responsible for the ruling coalition, at least that part of the ruling coalition that did not vote for the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. In doing so, I think of my party, who strongly opposed the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, precisely because of this non-substantiating relationship with Vojvodina, which is also visible in the situation in which we have found ourselves today. Of course the LSV thinks that Vojvodina should have more jurisdiction. This is not possible under this Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. It was possible to look at those proposals from the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia delivered by many parties, including some parties that today claim that what Vojvodina received is too much. So, more Vojvodinas offered all of them, starting with those who say that this is the right measure, over those who say that this is too much and, of course, to those who say that this is too small, who, even then, when the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia was adopted, said that this is too small. However, what is a fact, it is that this constitution, although, in our opinion, has not given enough jurisdiction to the citizens, not only to the citizens of Vojvodina, is binding on all of us. One of the obligations was for this statute to be adopted, to be passed by following the law, and everything that we today, yesterday and tomorrow do here comes from the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The competencies defined by this statute, which one of the MPs said was Vojvodina's grip on herself, come from Article 183. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Interregional co-operation, which has been so criticised in this assembly, stems from Article 181. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. I'll just say that Article 16. The draft statute of the AP Vojvodina states that the AP Vojvodina is co-operating with territorial communities and other forms of autonomy of other states, within the framework of the foreign policy of the Republic of Serbia and with the obligation to respect its territorial unity and legal order. Article 181 The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia says "Autonomic provinces and units of local self-government co-operate with relevant territorial communities and units of local self-government of other states within the framework of the foreign policy of the Republic of Serbia, with respect for territorial unity and the legal order of the Republic of Serbia." So anyone who has been well-intentioned, anyone who is able to sink into these two texts will see that these two formulations are exactly the same. Furthermore, the same provision that is very often disputed in this assembly, which concerns Article 11 of the Statute - the property of the AP Vojvodina, the position of 1st member, reads: "The property of the AP Vojvodina, the way it is used and available, is regulated by law". Article 183(5) The constitution of the Republic of Serbia says "Autonomic provinces manage the province's property in a manner envisaged by law." We've got two exact identical provisions again. What has been very often questioned is the opening of a branch in Brussels. At this moment, 358 European regions and cities have their own representations in Brussels. There is no doubt about the loyalty of these regions, these cities in the countries of which they form an integral part, and citizens of these regions and cities have only benefited from their authorities being able to connect with many companies, other regions, companies, European, international and other organisations whose headquarters is also in Brussels. I will remind that such offices have all Croatian counties, that such offices have a canton of Sarajevo, such an office has a Republika Srpska, such an office has even cities from European countries, and yet in their countries no one accuses them of separatism. When we talk about this right to referenda, which is equally interpreted as some sort of godless desire to separate Vojvodina, this provision in the statute that deals with it is literally the same as Article 82. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. It reads in the Statute and the Constitution: "The territory of autonomous provinces cannot be changed without the consent of its citizens expressed in a referendum, in accordance with the law." When it comes to capital and government, it's one of the things that's been interpreted here as some kind of separatism attempt. I'll refer you to article 189. The constitution that states that autonomous provinces independently prescribe the regulation and jurisdiction of their bodies and public services. It is something where the Republic of Serbia has no simple jurisdiction to interfere with what an autonomous province will call its own organ. It's just a matter of autonomous province. When it comes to the Vojvodjan Academy of Science and Arts, I will say that the regional Academy of Science and Arts exist in Germany, where we have the Academy of Science Maync, the Academy of Science Gettingen, the Academy of Science of Bavaria, the Academy of Sciences Baden Brandenburg, the Academy of Sciences of Heidelberg, the Academy of Science of North Rayna Westphalia, the Academy of Science of Saxony in Leipzig. Given that it is a federal state, I will give an example of the Academy of Sciences that exists in Italy, which is a regionalized state, where we have: the Academy of Science Torino, the Academy of Agriculture, the sciences and literature of Verona, the Galileo Academy of Sciences, literature and art of Padova, the Academy of Science and Literature "La Colonbarija" Toscana, the Academy of Literature and Arts of Udine, Atheneum Bres: Academy of Sciences, Literature and Arts in Breša, the Academy of Science, Literature and Arts Bergamo, the Academy of Sciences, Literature and Arts of Venice, the Institute of Lombardia, the Academy of Science and Literature. If that is not enough, I will give examples from an extremely centralized country, such as France, where we have: the Academy of Alzasa, the Academy of Sciences, Arts and Humanity Turan, the Academy of Science, Literature and Arts, the Academy of Science, the Academy of Literature and Arts Ruan, the Academy of Sciences and Arts, the Academy of Science and Literature, the Academy of Science, the Academy of Sciences, the Inscritation, literature and humanities of Touluz. So, the Academy of Science and Arts regionally exists in all European countries, from those that are federalized to those that are extremely centralised. I don't see why Vojvodina is challenged by the right to have and maintain its own regional academy of science and art, like many other academys in the world. Vojvodina, whose people have been responsible since the 18th century for the creation of Serbia's first constitution, the university, will remind you of Dosite Obradovic, the theatre, the museum, has come to dispute her right in the 21st century and is seeking to abolish the academy as her own institutions of science and culture. So, all that is controversial to you who dispute this statute here today stems from the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the same constitution that you all voted for, except for LSV and LDP. The obligation to adopt this statute comes from the Constitution. The jurisdiction comes from the Constitution. The institutions established originate from the Constitution. Otherwise, it should also be said that this statute, nor the law that we discussed yesterday, is not established and established by the Vojvodina Academy of Sciences and Arts. The institution was founded in 2002. The case lies before the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia and only when it is brought to justice will we be able to discuss it as an unconstitutional category. Instead of having a debate today and yesterday on this draft statute, on the law as the first step towards Serbia's decentralisation, it is being led into an atmosphere that is not pleasant to MEPs or citizens of the Republic of Serbia, nor worthy of such a topic. It's important to take care of who's bringing charges of separatism here, who these charges apply to, who wants to make a state in the country. We'll come up with a clear answer that it's nobody. With this draft statute and yesterday's bill, Vojvodina will get nothing more, but it will gain much less than many regions in Europe. This is not much for the simple reason that under the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which Vojvodina did not give much, but did not give it to others either. The right to autonomy is not the exclusive right of the citizens of Vojvodina, this right belongs to all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, who are also guaranteed by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. That is why it is extremely dangerous for the citizens of Vojvodina today to dispute this right, because tomorrow they will also challenge everyone else, and no party has any moral or any other right to do so. This should be the first step towards asymmetric decentralisation of the country today. I think that Serbia, apart from Albania, is the only country that has no regions in Europe, is also the only country that is afraid of decentralisation, which cannot understand that exactly the measure of decentralisation is the measure of democratisation, and at least Serbia should know from all countries in the region that centralism and force can't hold anything back.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-25-0.u31620	From the time of the parliamentary group, 16 minutes have been used. National MP Tomislav Nikolic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-25-0.u31621	On the basis of Article 104, I find that the dignity of the National Assembly has been violated, because those of us who here have the arguments, which are clear enough for us, which we declare against the statutes of Vojvodina, the predecessor accused the speaker of misrepresenting the Vojvodina. You didn't react. The lady was good at defending the People's MPs of the Vojvodina Assembly as people chosen by the people, and the discussion of the MPs in the Serbian Parliament, also chosen by the people, cannot be a misrepresentation of the Vojvodina. I don't submit to Vojvodina. I'm criticizing two laws here. I don't think the people of Vojvodina should suffer for this debate. It is not true that the autonomy of any end of Serbia is a constitutional category, without changing the Constitution by a two-thirds majority and even a referendum, is not possible. It is indeed a category exclusively for Vojvodina and KIM. We were proud that Vojvodina was granted autonomy under the Constitution, but you prescribed the provisions of the Constitution. That means you wrote a new constitution, you prejudged public property laws. You've already said it's a public property of the Vojvodina. You're talking about a referendum here. How is a decision taken in a referendum? Not with 50% plus one registered for, because it's a referendum, but with most of those who go to the election. You've introduced the Institute of Immunities of the Duke's Assembly here. Is there another country in the world immune to such regional MPs in the regional parliaments? The constitutional category is clear, the MPs enjoy immunity. No other MP under the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia enjoys immunity. So if we object that something seems to be out of line with the Constitution, do not accuse us of not wanting the good of the Duke.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-25-0.u31622	Two minutes. People's MP, there's no breach of article 104. I also listened very carefully to a letter whose exposure you consider to be such that it is an injured member of 104, as well as all other MPs. If we have agreed not to warn and not to warn the MPs who consider their right of political speech, freedom of speech and the right of the MP to speak about the intentions of someone and to know that someone's intentions are secessionism, separatism, then the right to speak of intentions implies and the obligation to listen to others who speak of intentions. Nothing less and nothing more and no one's right to free speech is compromised. The MP, like everyone else, spoke about what she saw as the intentions of others who participated in the debate. Since I believe that if we allow ourselves to feel that we have the right to talk about our intentions, then by the end of this debate we will also have the obligation to listen when someone else is talking about our intentions. The word is by MP Aleksandar Martinovic, followed by MP Slobodan Maras.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-25-0.u31623	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will have to take a brief look at Mrs Nada Kolundzhija's statements, Miss Alexander Jerkov and other representatives of the ruling coalition, since unfortunately I have not had the opportunity to gain the right to replication, or to point to a breach of the Rules of Procedure. I was going to ask Mrs. Hope Kolundji when she held in one hand the Constitution, and in the second proposal of the Statute - what proposal did she hold? Did she hold the October 2008 draft statutes? Did she hold the proposal for a statute readjusted by the conclusion of the Vojvodina Assembly of 7 November 2009? Did she hold in her hands the consolidated text of the draft statutes drawn up by the Committee on Regulations of the Parliament of the Republic of Vojvodina or held the fourth version of the draft Statute, which was also held at the meeting of the Committee on Regulations on 10 November 2009, when a whole series of essential new provisions were introduced under the technical corrections company in the draft statutes which were not declared at all by the Vojvodina Assembly? Because, let me, you can say that we Serbian radicals are stupid, that we don't know anything, that we're like this or that, but let some kind of common sense be ours. How can we accept that technical error is a matter of original income? How can we accept that technical error is a question of the New Now as the capital? How can we accept that the technical error is the question of whether Vojvodina can give medals and a whole series of other things that have been entered into the text of the draft statutes at the meeting of the Vojvodina Assembly on November 10th and that the Vojvodina Assembly has not declared itself at all? So that's what I was going to ask Mrs. Hope Kolundji on which of the four proposals of the AP Vojvodina Statutes she actually meant. As for what Mrs Gordana Komic said about the church being separate from the state, it is true. It really does say in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. But the church is not separate from the people. We are MPs, we are concerned about what will happen to the Serbian people living in the territory of Vojvodina, and of course what will happen to all other citizens living in the territory of the AP Vojvodina. Because you will see from our later presentation, the figures will prove to you that it is not true that it is or not not true for national minorities in Vojvodina whether or not a proposal of the Duke's Statute will be adopted. So it is true that the church is separate from the state, but who can now say that no one knows anything about the proposal for the Statutes of Vojvodina other than Mrs. Hope Kolundzija, Mr. Dusan Bajatovic or Ms. Aleksandra Jerkov. Because right now, when things come down to absurdity, the next conclusion -- nothing knows about the real Costa Chavoski, nothing about the real Ratko Markovic, nothing about the right, about the state of the SPC archeology, nobody knows anything, just representatives of the ruling coalition. They are here to convince us that all of these are ignorant, that they are the sowers of panic, and they are the ones who defend the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. We are now in a position to discuss, as well as one absurd, the proposal for an AP Vojvodina statute that the Vojvodina Assembly has not voted at all. What the Duke's Parliament voted for, it's not what we're having a debate about today. This debate is somewhat pointless, but you are the ones who create life in Serbia, but this is what Serbian citizens should know. Of course, representatives of the ruling coalition say that we in the SRS do not have any arguments and that there is no point in reminding ourselves of what was in the past. We'll show you that's not exactly the case. You know, there's that Latin saying, or Latin joke, when the lion asked the fox -- why don't you go into my cave, and she told him -- so I'm afraid of tracks, because other animals were coming into the cave, but there were no cave tracks. That's how it scares us what's happening now because we have bitter experiences in the past. We wouldn't have fought this heartily against the draft statutes of the AP Vojvodina if we didn't have traumatic experiences 15, 20 or 30 years ago. The Serbian people have already burned themselves on these things once. Many heads fell because the children allegedly played the Constitution. Don't let that happen again. You don't know what day bears, what night bears. You may be the most well-meaning in the world, you may not really have any last intention, but who knows what can come after this and who knows who can come to power in the AP Vojvodina or the government in Serbia and that what you are about to vote on is not used as a reason to really separate Vojvodina from Serbia. I'll give you a few facts that tell you about how approximately the gene of the Yugoslav crisis ran before and after the passage of the 1974 Constitution. Academic Dusan Bilandzic, a Croatian historian, in the 1984 book "Historija SFRY", says this: "Tito and Kardelj were aware that in the way of creating their vision there is a great Serbian ideology as the main opponent, regardless of who was at the head of Serbia. ''At a meeting of the Constitutional Commission on the 20th Amendment to the 1963 SFRY Constitution, Edward Cardellj said the following - it is not a question of whether Yugoslavia is a federal state or an alliance of states, it is ultimately quite a side issue for us because we need to find those solutions that match the interests of the people of Yugoslavia. The changes are so deep that there is no way to talk about the Federation in the classical sense of that word, even though we continue to use that word, and we are not going to say the last word about how relations between our peoples and our peoples should be. The only thing missing here and I would add is to autonomous provinces. Professor Mihailo Đuric, who was expelled from the Faculty of Law in Belgrade for criticising amendments to the 1963 Constitution, which were brought in 1968 and 1971, said in March 1971, "The proposed changes fundamentally change the character of the current state community. The change rejects the idea of such a state union of Yugoslav peoples. There is no need to speculate here whether the intolerance and impatience of those who demand these changes come from here because they know what they are getting, or whether confusion, discomfort and hesitation in those whose changes are natural, come from where they know exactly what they are losing. It should be clear that Yugoslavia is already today (see that in 1971, 20 years before the civil war broke out) almost only a geographical notion, since on its soil or rather on its ruins, under the mask of consistent development of equality between the peoples living in it, establishing several independent, independent, even inter-contested national states. It's a fact that needs to be looked in the eye. If there's anything else left of it (thinking from Yugoslavia) it's just to be in the next so-called The second phase of change had something else to bring to an end." Because of these words, Mihailo Djuric was expelled from the Faculty of Law in Belgrade, and several years later even a court sentence. How right Mihailo Đuric was, unfortunately, already in 1991, when exactly what Mr. Mihailo Đuric pointed out happened. One of the leaders of the Croatian mass movement Mika Tripalo in 1971 says at a meeting: Serbia needs to be broken, but it needs to be broken by breaking both wings, both provinces. At one dinner in Montenegro, attended by Veljko Vlahovic, he said this - we will bring Serbia down between Uzic and Belgrade. Dr. Zarko Bulajic, president of Montenegro's Executive Council, reported his colleague, Milenko Bojanic, and Mark Nikezic. Revoltured, Marko Nikezic, on 14 March 1971, in the presence of Veljko Vlahovic, shared the same message with Tito, following his objections to Serbia. Tito was confused, and Vlahovic was cowardly silent. In 1974, the Constitution of the SFRY, the famous Brion Constitution, was adopted, which finally sealed the fate of the SFRY. It hasn't been a year, it's already been clear that it's so-called. Serbia is in a subordinate position compared to its two provinces. The leadership of Serbia's then-SR approach to a job called - making so-called. ‘Blue books’. The "Blue Book" contained an accurate description of all those problems in the SFRJ Constitution and in the SR Serbian Constitution that lead to two new states forming in Serbia's territory -- AP Vojvodina and AP KIM. In January 1977, the "Blue Book" was completed. These gentlemen may know that. Don't get me pessimistic, but the PUPS gentlemen, who may have been politically involved at the time, know that these are facts and that this is true. Thus, the 1977 Blue Book found a large number of sides to be a failure of the SFRY Constitution. She also projected exactly what would happen if this 1974 Constitution didn't change. Watch what is said on page 94 and "Blue Books": "In view of the marked tendencies of disintegration of the Republic as a whole and of the increasingly distinct areas, weak or only formally interrelated, the question can be raised whether the Serb people, equal to other peoples of Yugoslavia, are exercising their historical right to a national state within the Yugoslav Federation which rests on the principle of national self-determination". That was 1977. In 1984, Professor Jovan Miric published his famous book "System and Crisis", which also describes exactly what would happen to Yugoslavia if the Snare Constitution of 1974 survived. The city's Marxist Centre in Zagreb organizes an event where the book of Professor Jovan Miric is promoted, and Stipe Šuvar calls all those who praise this book "crisisologists" and calls them panic-sitting people. Now look, every similarity to today's events is really intentional. It's all happening again, what was in the 1970s, in the '80s, and what was the introduction to the bloody collapse of the former Yugoslavia. These are facts, these are scientific facts. This is what's left of it. This was not invented by Vojislav Seselj, Dragan Todorovic, Martinovic, anyone from the Radical Party. This is history. Smart peoples learn in their history – they learn lessons from the mistakes they have made in the past. You can now act like an owls who stick their heads in the sand and say -- no, they're lying now, they're panicking, that's not true, but the citizens of Serbia won't be able to benefit from that head-in-the-sand thing. So stop while it's time. Don't let us repent after 20 years, as we regretted in 1991. In those 74 years, you could count on the fingers of one hand the people that Professor Mihailo Đurić had been, who accurately predicted that this constitution would actually be a mechanism for decommissioning and starting a civil war. That's when they laughed at him. That's when they sent him to psychiatry. They said he was crazy. Banished from law school, sent to prison, and it hasn't been 20 years -- people started to die. Don't think history can't happen again. We wouldn't want to, but don't play with the state. This country is expensive, it's expensive and it's not the time, it's not the place for us to break it down today. If you listen to representatives of the ruling coalition, then there is the next conclusion. The regime provided Serbian citizens with jobs, high wages, so that they can train their children, that they can treat their sick parents, that every young man in Serbia can have an apartment and that he can form his family. Is that right? Did you provide it for the citizens of Serbia – you did not. Who can go to school – the one who has the money? Who can heal? Who has money? Who can travel? Who has money? Who can buy an apartment and start their own family - the one who has the money? How many of those are in Serbia – less than 10%? Why didn't you take that turn? Let us provide the citizens with what is most important, what is dried bread, so when we provide it – here, citizens, you have the right to such autonomy, broad, wide, narrow, etc. It's impossible for you to go the other way. You brought the citizens to the beggar stick, you ruined the economy. You're accessing the layoff of employees in the Republic and local administration. What company in Serbia is working today. Agriculture has been led to a beggar stick and you say, "Gloriously, to the citizens of Serbia -- here, we have done everything, and all you have left is to get the right to autonomy from the Serbian Constitution and you will be great." It's a hypocrisy that's probably no match. Here we are honored by the Serbian Radical Party as we are inconsistencies, and it is said that in 2006, you supported the Constitution, and now you criticise it. That's not true, because we say the same thing in 2006 and 2009. If it were just us from the SRS, Serbia would be a classic unitary state without autonomous provinces. Because history has shown, because the right has shown that such countries are the most efficient and at the same time the cheapest. Unfortunately, it wasn't just us from the SRS that asked the DS, and the DSS and the SPS. We wanted to come up with a common solution. You know, when you're making a deal with someone, you always have something to do and step down. We agreed that Vojvodina still retains the AP status, but only because the state of Serbia is fighting for its territorial integrity in another part of its territory, in KIM, so we did not want to further heat up political passions in Serbia, to heat up the warm atmosphere anyway. We said, well, here, let Vojvodina retain the status of an autonomous province. It's no problem what the Constitution says, the problem is that you Vojvodinas give much more than what the Constitution says, you exceed the constitutional powers of the AP Vojvodina. No problem would it be if you Dukes gave what belongs to her under the Constitution. No, you of Vojvodina are essentially building a federal unit in the Republic of Serbia. Miss Alexandra Jerkov talked a little bit about how it's not unusual that in other countries, besides the national Academy of Science and Art, there are some more academics. Miss Jerkov, even in Serbia today, you have voted for the law that forms the Judicial Academy, you have the Diplomatic Academy, you have the Maritime Academy, you have the Police Academy. Not every institution called the Academy is what is written in the Serbian Constitution for the Serbian Academy of Sciences and Arts or what is written in the statute for the Vojvodina Academy of Sciences and Arts. These are institutions of a completely different character. In all the countries of the world, Miss Jerkov, there is only one national academy of science and art, everything else called the Academy is not the academy of which you, out of ignorance, think. One is the French Academy, one is Germany, one is Italian. You know, we have the University of Bozidar Adjia, so when you finish that university, you're not a graduate lawyer, but you're a cook, a waiter, etc. Don't just draw wrong conclusions from names. What do we get from the proposal for the Statute of the AP Vojvodina? Or do the citizens living in Vojvodina get anything? Yeah, they get an administration that's going to be a few times more expensive than it is, and they're going to have to support the same citizens who don't work, who you left out of work, who can't train their children. How right we are talking today's events. Go to the streets of Belgrade. Belgrade University students protest for one single reason -- they don't have children from where to school because their parents don't work anywhere, they can't pay the tuition you imposed on them. The budget is funded by 10% of students, 90% self-financed. Would all of you who sit here and own a college degree own those diplomas if you had studied under today's regime, if getting a degree depended on the depth of your parents' pockets? It's hard for any of you to have a degree in any college today. You've been educated for nothing, like the rest of us, and now you're applying some other arches to other people's children. Now you're imposing scholarships of 1,000, 2000, 5000 euros, so whoever has to pay will be highly educated, who won't pay - what we can do, the loss of transition, he didn't manage. That's your explanation. The facts say the SRS is right. So by 2002, you had seven regional secretariats in Vojvodina. Today, without this bill of statute, you have 18 of them. Almost three times the number of regional secretariats. We can only imagine now how many new regional secretariats will form after you transferred all these powers to the Vojvodina and let her do all these jobs. Those province secretariats will certainly be more than the Serbian government ministers. Now we ask you, who will finance all this? You know, Vasa Pelagic wrote a book called “How Much Does God and Master Cost Us? ” Citizens of Vojvodina, or citizens living in Vojvodina, will ask you – how much does this, gentlemen of government, cost us your broad European autonomy? Who's going to finance it? What company in Vojvodina is he doing? Which farmer in Vojvodina is satisfied with the conditions under which he produces milk, meat, wheat, corn, sunflower, tail, etc.? Who's going to finance it? From where? This project of yours will hardly be so easy to implement in practice. What do we get next? We're actually getting what Milan Kucan stood for back in 1990. He then advocated asymmetrical Federation, then asymmetric confederation. We're now getting a completely asymmetrical orderly state. You will have three legal systems on the territory of the Republic of Serbia. One legal system applies to KIM. Technically, that should be Resolution 1244. Basically, the rules of the so-called so-called rule apply there. the temporary Kosovo institutions and the rules of the Eulex. We will now have a second legal system on Serbia's territory, it's a system in the AP Vojvodina. A completely parallel system in the fields of education, health, science, etc. You will have a third legal system in the territory of what once the aphorists called a narrow Serbia or a horror. Now the question arises – how will such a state be admitted to any international organisation? You say your goal is to join the EU. Which EU will receive such a heterogeneous state? Who's he gonna take? Kosovo and Metohija, Vojvodina, horrors or will they accept all this together? That's impossible. A country like that can't work. If you're aware of that, time will tell. With this proposal of the statutes, you're practically making a federal unit of Vojvodina. The Republic of Serbia will no longer be a classical unitary state, will formally be a unitary state, but with an extremely strong federal element. What's called the AP Vojvodina is just by name, essentially, it's a federal unit. So, if the territorial community has its own government, if it has its own development bank, if it can set up representations abroad, to conclude interregional ones, you said in the original version of the statutes -- international agreements, that it is making provincial assembly decisions that have legal power in the territory of the AP Vojvodina, what is it? Is that an autonomous province? Where does that exist in Europe? It doesn't exist anywhere, it's a federal unit. Do we need the federalisation of the Republic of Serbia? I'm not going to give you my opinion, I'm going to appeal to the views of a respected legal theorist who wrote a book before World War II and who was of course not a member of the SRS. It's about Dr. Djura Popovic, who wrote the book "About Federalism". The book was published in Belgrade in 1933. So now we're going to get a country where there's going to be and there's going to be a federal element present. Here's what this author says about what states contain in themselves a federal element: 'Federalism is a regime of weakness and slowness. The state government is greatly reduced and limited because it is divided between communities and its parts. The Federation's central government is at risk of encountering a response from local authorities to implement its decisions. These can sabotage and create great difficulties with passive resistance. As a result, the federal government of the country's interior is weak enough to give it less respect abroad. The Federation sets the borders in the state, and the borders, whatever they may be, always create interference and impediments to traffic and relations, make trade and other ties difficult. Today, however, he strives to wipe out borders in the interest of all peoples at all. (Beware of the likeness of the 30s of the 20th century and today. Federalism, therefore, goes against one of mankind’s main aspirations for modern development. In the unitary state (against which you fight so heartily) there is no problem that would be common to the central government's conflict with local authorities. The whole territory is subdued by one authority and will. The authority which does not comply with the order shall have no dispute between them. Biologically speaking, unitaryism is more normal and natural than federalism. There is only one supreme authority in each organism to command. One of the strongest arguments against federalism is that it is more expensive than unitarism. In fact, in the Federations, more or less all bodies are doubled, the state apparatus is much larger and more complicated (doesn't that remind you of what it says in the Vojvodina Statute proposal? Therefore, slower and more expensive. The Federation costs more than a unitary state, which pulls the budget burden. It would be pointless, therefore (see this) to turn one unitary state into a Federation at times of economic crisis. If certain expenditure is thrown from the state to the province budgets, the expenditure is not reduced at all, only the people have been charged with new burdens and expenditures coming from the need for a larger civil apparatus and other similar costs (see, written 1933). The federalists themselves admit that the Federations make it easier to create local coteries that affect government affairs. Distance isn't always bad. It sometimes allows people and opportunities to be tried colder and more objectively than when a man is involved in everyday local intrigues. In a unitary state, it may be more often tried with less knowledge of local opportunities, but certainly, at least in theory, more impartial and less impact of the environment. In addition, federalism dispels harmful particularism and separatism and perpetuates anything that a nation separates. Thus, it prevents his spiritual unity and thus reduces his flight to the people. Finally, it has been said that it is much harder to manage the Federation than the unitary state, that it needs more tactics, more state wisdom and political abilities than in unitarianism. While in the unitary state there is a lot of one team of managers, so far in the Federation it is necessary to have more teams, and it is pointless to think about the transition to the Federation where there is already a state apparatus that does not satisfy the citizens. For in order for more administration and government to be found in a national community (listen well) when a string of one was not possible. '"A completely identical situation to what we have today. We have a completely incompetent government. Now it is not enough for Serbian citizens to have one incompetent government. No, now let's create another, perhaps even more incompetent government, not just in Belgrade, but in Novi Sad. I won't read from this book anymore, as old Latina would say - smart enough. You don't have to trust us from the SRS. We're primitive, ignorant, uneducated, we don't know anything, but it's just amazing that the government is trying to convince us that no one knows anything about the unitary state, about what the province is, except that government itself. That's not true. We are well-intentioned to you critics to give up this job you started. We have no objection to the adoption, in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, of the draft statutes, but such a proposal of the statutes that arises from the Constitution. We're against a bill of statute that's unconstitutional. Of course, we have heard from representatives of the ruling coalition that general phrase -- we believe it is in accordance with the Constitution, and you who suspect have a Constitutional Court. Unfortunately, they also have citizens of courts, so they can hardly exercise their rights. Unfortunately, the Constitutional Court in this country guards those in power, does not keep the Constitution. Now, from our formal right to speak to each other, even if it's the cross of the Constitutional Court, we can hardly benefit ourselves and you know it. We'll file an initiative to assess constitutionality, be pushed into the drawer, in the meantime, who knows what's going to happen, and it'll be forgotten, and time will pass. I will try for the next few minutes to disprove one thesis represented by Mr Canak and represented by all those who say that without this proposal, the statutes will question the rights of national minorities in the AP Vojvodina. Don't be nervous, gentlemen of the ruling coalition, I'm not as smart as you are, but I'll manage somehow. It's a book. Don't get upset, if I'm not upset, neither are you. It's a book.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-25-0.u31624	People's MP, please do not communicate with MPs. I'm asking the MPs not to get it. This is a mutual violation of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Go on.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-25-0.u31625	Thank you, Mrs. Comic, you're very kind. I'll refer to Mr. Vladimir Ilic's book "The Overcoming of the Past in Vojvodina." The book was written in 2002 and is a set of statistics that occurred through a survey of public opinion in Vojvodina. In fact, 1,500 citizens living in the territory of Vojvodina have been examined. Of those 1,500 citizens, 500 of them are Hungarians, the other 500 are native Serbs and the third is Serbs who are colonists, who came to Vojvodina from various parts of the former Yugoslavia. The writer is not fond of the SRS at all. From this sentence, you'll understand who wrote this book. Here, among other things, is what Mr. Canak said. It says Serbian crimes against Croats in 1991 until 1993 in Srem and South-West Baska, and is talking about some kind of systematic persecution of Albanians from Vojvodina in 1999.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-25-0.u31626	Member of the People's Parliament, I ask that the part that you have now begun to quote be immediately brought into contact with the draft statutes, or the motion for a decision to confirm the statutes. I listened very carefully to reading passages of books for 30 minutes. I ask the MPs of Zoran Popovic and Mirko Munjic not to earn. Next time I see it's a throwaway, I'll give you a warning. So, a warning. Please, get in touch immediately and respect Article 103. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, let's talk about the agenda. On the agenda is a proposal for a decision to confirm the statutes of the AP Vojvodina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-25-0.u31627	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. Here's the connection between these figures to the proposal of the Duke's Statute. These figures speak of what citizens living in Vojvodina think about what they need, or what their needs are in Vojvodina. The book was written in 2002. It's 2009, it wasn't that long ago. These figures, however, are indicators of a general opinion that exists among citizens living in the territory of Vojvodina. The survey is more representative than Serbs, natives and colonists, and Hungarians have been studied. That's what this is all about with the Duke's statutes. Mrs. Hope Kolundji said that citizens have the right to the autonomy of Vojvodina. Here are the figures for citizens living in Vojvodina. He says this way -- the respondents were also asked -- what have you or your family had to give up during the past year? This issue is much more direct to express real quality of life than issues based on self-evaluation of respondents. In 19% of cases, the Hungarian nationality respondents said they did not have to give up anything, the luxurious needs gave up 49%, the daily needs that are not vital to them 18%, and the real vital needs, which include a significant deterioration in the quality of food or the absence of opportunities to buy the necessary medicines, 14%. Among the subjects of Serbian nationality, the corresponding percentage figures are 16, 49, 25 and 10%. It's a burning problem for people living in Vojvodina -- unemployment, job shortages, people being forced to give up even some vital needs. That's what the government in Serbia must provide for these people. Not the Academy of Science, not the representation abroad. No, everything that's written in this and this proposal of the statutes, but jobs, jobs, security pay, the possibility of school, of buying their own apartment, of starting a family. Here's some more interesting data. Asked how the crimes committed against the Hungarians in World War II burden the current lives of our people...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-25-0.u31628	People's MP, I warned you to tie up a crime-related topic in the 20th and earlier centuries, and you didn't do it. I warn you that you have already been warned that this is a violation of Article 103(1) and the obligation of the Members of Parliament to speak on the agenda. (Greto Peric, from the place: If anyone was talking about the agenda...) I ask MP Sreto Peric not to throw it away. It is my duty to take care of the application of the Rules of Procedure. It is my duty for the MPs to speak of the agenda. You, woman, are not normal... ) Therefore, the People’s Parliament of the Faith of Radeta is verbally speaking to the chairman, qualified whether I am or am not normal. We will leave that question open, but you have broken the Rules of Procedure and I give you the first warning to throw offensive expressions and distract the chairman. The People's Parliament of the Faith of Radeta has its first warning. I ask MP Aleksandr Martinovic to use the rest of the time available to him to speak on the subject of the agenda. You used 38 minutes. Please log in if you wish to continue and use the MPs' time. Do you want to? Please sign in. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-25-0.u31629	Mrs. Comic, I want a word, but it's up to you whether or not I can finish my presentation. I don't think I've offended anyone by what I read. This is one scientific study. This was written by a man who had nothing to do with the SRS. This is a serious study, this is a scientific book. It's Hungarians, among other things. Hungarians are mentioned in the draft statutes of the AP Vojvodina. This is nothing ugly. Let me finish by the end. If I break the Rules of Procedure in any way, I give you an honorable word -- I will never answer the word in the National Assembly again, but this has nothing to do with breaking the Rules of Procedure. These are scientific facts. Don't make a UN tribunal out of this assembly. And in The Hague, a man can say what he has to say. Please, I'm not insulting anyone. This is nothing degutant. These are the figures that indicate what the citizens who live in Vojvodina really think they need. Don't be smarter than them, like now they don't know what they need, but you know. These are the people who live in Vojvodina, this is Vojvodina, not that of your Duchess from the bill of statutes. This is the living Vojvodina who says, "We need that and we need that." That's all I'm trying to do. If you'll let me, I'll finish, if I can't, you tell, and I'll hang up. Asked how crimes against Hungarians committed in World War II...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-25-0.u31630	The subject of crime in the 20th and 21st centuries has absolutely nothing to do with the bill of statutes. I give you my first warning for breach of Article 103(1). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. If you wish to continue, please sign up to use the time until the end available to the SRS parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-25-0.u31631	Here, dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia living in Vojvodina, this is how you will be destined. They think well of you, they're big Democrats, they take care of you and your children. We'll go back to the dry text of the Statute proposal, although I only have this last fourth version in my hands, the last three I didn't bring. Here, I'll talk about this fourth last version. I guess that's the version that will be officially published in the official AP Vojvodina list. Here's how ignorant those who wrote the proposal of the Duke's Statute are. First, there is no region in any EU member state whose statute has preamble. Preambula is characteristic of the constitutions of independent states. Preamublu does not have the statutes of any area, i.e. the region in Belgium, Italy or Spain. It is proposed by the Statute of the AP Vojvodina. In Article 2(2), it is said this way: ''The assembly of the AP Vojvodina shall designate the authority of the AP Vojvodina representing the AP Vojvodina as a legal person, thereby exercising the rights and obligations of the AP Vojvodina as the founder of public undertakings and institutions and other organisations in accordance with the law. '"That's in Article 2. Article 48 states that the founding rights are being exercised by the government of the AP Vojvodina. Article 2 states - it will be regulated by the provincial assembly decision, and Article 48 says - no, it is already done by the government of the AP Vojvodina. Then we come to this famous member of 10th says - the capital of the AP Vojvodina. Watch the language of the rasomonyade. The city of Novi Sad is the capital, so the comma, the administrative center of the AP Vojvodina. In translation into the language our citizens understand stands like this - Novi Sad is the capital, administrative center of the AP Vojvodina. That Novi Sad is defined as the capital city, as described in Article 10(4) - the position of the town of Novi Sad, as the capital, so the decimal, the administrative center of the AP Vojvodina, is governed by the province’s parliamentary decision in accordance with the law. Dear Serbian citizens, you will have the privilege of living in the only country in the world that will have two capitals. It's hardly gonna make you feel any better, but here, you'll have that privilege. He says - legal acts and other acts of the AP Vojvodina. This is just amazing, that you in article 19. The draft statutes suffer all possible acts adopted by the Assembly of Vojvodina, both the Assembly and the Government of the Republic of Vojvodina - statutes, municipal congregation decisions, the province regulations, decisions, declarations, resolutions, rules, instructions, orders, decisions, recommendations, conclusions and other acts. There are acts here that are legal and are not legal, general legal acts and individual acts, political acts. It's all the same for you, and it's all written in the same article of the bill of statutes, in article 19. So much for the legal quality of this text. In Article 28 paragraph 2: ''For reasons of legal, successful and uninterrupted conduct of operations under its jurisdiction, the AP Vojvodina may propose the establishment of a Standing Mixed Commission composed of representatives of the authorities of the Republic of Serbia and the authorities of the AP Vojvodina. "Do you know, dear citizens of Serbia, where this existed? It was in former Austro-Hungarian. There they decided on joint business, so-called. delegations. One was given by the Austrian parliament and the other by the Hungarian parliament. What these two delegations agreed on was a decision that everyone had to implement. But, gentlemen, that was in Austro-Hungarian. Austro-Hungarian is a dead state. You're raising a political dead man. This does not exist absolutely in any EU Member State. You took this from the Austrian legal system. That's not an accident at all. On Article 29, which provides for all possible jurisdiction, I won't look back much because we talked about it yesterday. The Republic of Serbia can trust AP affairs from its jurisdiction, but only matters relating to the state administration. That's what Article 137 says. The Constitution of Serbia. You've completely ignored it. According to you, the Republic of Serbia can trust the AP with everything, and establish its own army, and police, and courts and everything else. Because you say he can trust everyone in his jurisdiction. He can't do anything. All he can do is run the state's administration. You kept this quiet in the light of the bill on determining the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina. The AP Vojvodina, said in Article 31, can entrust the province's Assembly's decision to units of local self-government and, watch out, national councils of national minorities to carry out certain tasks under their jurisdiction. National councils and units of local self-government are completely different institutions. What does a municipality have to do with a national council? It absolutely doesn't have anything to do with it. Who could have thought of the idea that the AP Vojvodina could have entrusted jobs from its jurisdiction to institutions of a completely different legal nature? Then you could have written that he entrusted jobs from his jurisdiction and agricultural cooperatives, markets, local communities, home councils, etc. Article 40: "The Assembly shall be established by the Council of National Communities". No one alive knows what it is. He says, "The Council of National Communities is a special body of the Assembly that has 30 members." How is it assembled? Nakaradno. "A half of the members of the council are elected from the ranks of MPs acting as members of the national community who make up the majority of the total population of the AP Vojvodina." Imagine what kind of genius it was who could have thought of this to avoid what the whole nation understood - members of the Serb people. No, "members of the national community who make up the number majority in the population of Vojvodina", and according to the latest list are Serbs. Why doesn't it say so? Why do you use such legal and linguistic qualifications? He says – the other half of the council members are MPs who plead as members of the national communities who make up a number of minorities in the entire population of the AP Vojvodina. Is such a solution just? It's not. Why? It doesn't correspond to the real state of the population of the AP Vojvodina. The Serbs in Vojvodina, according to the latest census, are about 70%. So they represent an absolute majority. You bring them down to the national minority. There are 70% in reality, and in this body there will be only 50%. This body can't make any decisions except for the absolute majority, and Serbs don't have an absolute majority in this body. Does this mean that a Serb in his own state can be outvoted? According to you, it's okay. The constitution says in Article 1, this is what Mrs. Nada Kolundzija deliberately misreads, the state of Serbia is, above all, the state of the Serbian people and, of course, all citizens living in it. I guess it's the Serbian state, too. I accept that this is the state and the Hungarians, and the Slovaks, and the Romanians, Albanians and Bulgarians, but allow it to be a small Serb state. So how is it possible that a majority nation in Serbia can be outvoted in one body that is absolutely not composed according to the number of residents living in the territory of the AP Vojvodina? Now, watch out, legal geniuses. In Article 43, "The President of the Assembly, on the reasoned proposal of the Government of Vojvodina, can disband the Assembly". Do you know what that means? That means the president of the assembly can disband himself, because the president of the assembly is probably part of the assembly. Where is it in the world? Where is there in the world that the president of one organ disbands an organ that stands at the head? I guess he's being disbanded by someone else, huh? The President of the Vojvodina Assembly, if he comes into a position tomorrow to disband the Assembly, will disband himself among other things. That's legally impossible. It doesn't exist anywhere. In what EU country does it exist? Then you have a member of 47th and beyond, an organ called the government of the government of Vojvodina. Last year we heard a great explanation from the DS, he says -- it has to be called the government, because when we go to EU countries we can't explain what it means to be more executively, like, they don't understand it. They could have understood for 50 years, and now they don't understand. Gentlemen of the ruling coalition, even in Switzerland, the executive authority is not called the government, it's called the federal council, so the whole world knows it's the Swiss government. Why didn't you call him, like, executive advice? Why are you so brutally showing that you are, in fact, the intention of creating a true part of the Duke's state? Here, due to the lack of time, and also because Mrs. Comic is a little nervous, I won't be able to move on. In any case, the SRS will vote against the bill...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-25-0.u31632	People's MP, I warn you not to violate Article 104 and not to allow yourself to express your views on whether or not I am capable of holding a session. For violation of Article 104, I give you a second warning. The word is a letter from Hope Kolundji, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-25-0.u31633	I'm using the line because he called me directly a few times...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-25-0.u31634	You have no right to a replica. The MP asked rhetorical questions, but you have the right to breach the Rules of Procedure. I ask the MPs of Miroslav Petkovic and Zoran Nikolic not to disturb the session, regardless of what I know to enjoy the sincere support of both the people's MPs and the MP club they belong to, not only the support, so that the MP may say which member of the Rules of Procedure is injured. I don't want to hurt the Rules of Procedure. ) National MP Natasa Jovanovic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-25-0.u31635	Mrs. Komic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, reporting in accordance with article 100. I think you've violated Article 106, as well as the right given to you by Article 27, from which it insists that the National Assembly should take place and manage it. Just as you were closely following the MP, the authorised representative and deputy president of our parliamentary group Mr. Aleksandr Martinovic, I tried to, in line with all that he had said to the entire Serbian public and the MPs, and he spoke also as a national MP, and as a scientist and as a man who wanted to spread the historical scope, above all the pseudo-history Yugoslav delusions, he returned to the Grand National Assembly in November 25th,...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-25-0.u31636	People's MPs, please do not abuse your right under Article 100(1). We were all in the O.R. while MP Aleksandar Martinovic spoke and we know what he was saying. If you will explain what the breach of the Rules of Procedure is, please do so in the minute you have left.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-25-0.u31637	The breach of the Rules of Procedure is that you made one precedent. My 15-year parliamentary experience does not remember that any chairman during the session, based on the presentation, and using the scientific analysis of individual authors quoted by the magistrate Martinovic, is therefore giving the MP a warning. You know, there were situations in the National Assembly...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-25-0.u31638	People's MPs, I asked you to explain what the injury is. Penalties, first and second warnings to MP Aleksandra Martinovic were made because he injured Article 103(1) thanks to MPs for silent expression of support, and did not adhere to agenda topics. In the 34th minute, he was asked to explain the subject of the agenda. Article 103(1) binds us all. So you have 15 seconds to explain what the breach of the Rules of Procedure was.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-25-0.u31639	In that I think you didn't understand Mr. Martinovic and that you gave him two wrong remarks.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-25-0.u31640	People's messengers, I give you a warning. The abuse of the rights given to members of Article 100 of Position 1 is the demeaning of the National Assembly, the intention of the MPs is that, by breaking the rules that apply to all of us, they humiliate the National Assembly and send a message to all those who see us as unable to abide by our own rules. Please don't do this anymore. National MP Milos Aligrudic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-25-0.u31641	Article 27 - way to conduct the session. So, the session can be conducted not as it was led a little while, not by commenting on the non-verbal actions of the MPs, particularly applause, which is one way of expressing political relations with what is said, whatever is the speaker and whoever it is, even if it is the chairman. If you think that you can lead a session as if it were the peace of a cold tomb where you would sit alone, without any reaction from people who deal with politics and communicate with each other, then you must have made a mistake.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-25-0.u31642	People's MP, you haven't explained what Article 27's injuries consisted of. I care about the application of all the members of the Rules of Procedure, I make sure that the MPs speak on the subject of the agenda, make sure that it is possible and talkable and have the right to listen to the intentions, and to have the obligation to hear about other people's intentions, and to make sure that we all contribute together to a good atmosphere in the session of the National Assembly. The word has been given by the MP Slobodan Maras, followed by MP Zeljko Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-25-0.u31643	I really didn't expect to start my speech inspired by the name of the work of one of the greatest creators, which is - a lot of noise about nothing. I was inspired, first of all, by the lyrical performances of some predecessors. I truly believe that too much noise has been made around the Statutes of Vojvodina, and above all because of the irresponsibility and inability of the ruling majority, that in the procedure provided for, that is, the statute which has travelled for 14 months is rightly justified in this assembly, that is, the law on the transfer of jurisdiction. I, like other LDP MPs, and I suppose all MPs here in the O.R., was surprised by the way Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic explained yesterday the law on the transfer of jurisdiction. It is also unpleasant, Mrs. Comic, to watch the benches today in front of you, or seats in front of you, where there is no one who can defend and say any affirmative word about this statute. I must say, I am pleased that the ruling majority has finally put the Duke's statute on the agenda. I don't know what the SPS thinks about all that. We heard today from SPS representatives and I'm sorry he's not here in the O.R. that he's proud of "Yogurt Revolution 88", but also that he's behind this statute. If that's the price of a convention coming up at the end of the year, we can kind of understand that. But I don't understand what he mentioned yesterday when he was talking about the jurisdiction law, and everything in accordance with the statutes or the statutes, that there would be a supervision of the government. I don't know what you think. I suppose you of the second part of the ruling majority don't think that, but I really don't know what you SPS think of citizens in Vojvodina? That we're underage, so we need a supervisory review, and that government, how will the competencies that have been passed on be fulfilled? I must say, I have great dissatisfaction that the statute came to the Assembly the moment Mr Markovic of Unity of Serbia gave the befel to him, that is, when he realized that he was not a separatist. I think it's humiliating, but I hope so. One point is very important in all of this, and these are some of my predecessors, or predecessors, mentioned, that's property. We've been waiting 14 months for the statutes to arrive from that building. I hope that the return of property not only to the Vojvodina, but to all local self-government we will not wait so long, that the property will be returned much earlier. It is unfortunate that by one such relationship, the Duke's statute is turned into a bogeyman, which is slowly creating an anti-Vojvodian mood, although there is no reason to do so. I just wanted to say one more thing. I was impressed by the recent address of the representatives of the SRS, especially the part where he said what the citizens of Vojvodina were most interested in, when he quoted that book, that data. I only regret that in the 1990s, the SRS did not realize that these were priorities in the lives of citizens, but now in 2009. Finally, to say that the LDP will support the draft statutes, vote in favour of the law on the transfer of jurisdiction to Vojvodina and, indeed, what we expect from the ruling majority is for the next step to be the return of property, both the AP Vojvodina and the local self-government.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-25-0.u31644	I apologize to Parliamentarian Jelena Trivan. I read the name of MP Željko Tomic in an unintentional osmak. The National Messenger Jelena Trivan has a word, so the National MP Zeljko Tomic. National MP Dragan Todorovic does not have the right to reply. People's emissary Jelena Trivan, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-25-0.u31645	Ladies and gentlemen, dear MPs, the President-in-Office, I have been patiently waiting all day to talk about this proposal. I'm just asking you to make sure we all talk the same way. So I am patiently waiting to talk about the Dukean Statute, for the reason that today the most incredible accusations and the most incredible untruths in this congregation home have been heard. We had the opportunity to hear that this statute would be voted by the worst Serbs and, although I hate labels, as a Serbian girl from Kosovo, I had the need to talk about it because the last thing that I can do is stick someone in the heat of a political debate is that I am a secessionist, a separatist or that I love this country less than the opposition. In that sense, I want to talk about this proposal, about this legal act in a way that is true, true, and that does not mean cheap getting political points. So, what is the cacophony and how misunderstanding of this proposal of the Statute is also saying that we are equally attacked by the same proposal for text, that it is not sufficient to measure, that Vojvodina does not get anything, that it has not implemented decentralisation, that the government did not have the courage to enter the process of decentralisation, and on the other hand, that we are separatists and secessionists. This confirms only what is the fact that this statute is a legally balanced text or, as counterpart Nikola Novakovic said, that it is precisely the precise measure of a decentralised but functional state. What's amazing is that right in the Assembly we're opening a debate whether we need a statute at all. The opportunity to talk about it was when we adopted the new Constitution, but today to talk about whether it is necessary to implement the Constitution is extremely pointless and quite politically irresponsible. It is our duty to carry out all constitutional obligations, even if it is our duty to bring the statutes. Whether we need autonomy, whether we need a statute or a different state, it's a subject for the stands, to launch some public debate about changing the constitution, but it's not that we talk in the Serbian Parliament about whether we should respect the Constitution. The contents of the statutes and whether he's against the constitution I'll speak a few words later. Which is why we need a statute of decentralisation, perhaps better than I was defined by the DSS itself, the opposition party, which said in its programme declaration – the issue of Vojvodina and the strengthening of separatist tendencies in it should be resolved institutionally, i.e. maximum decentralisation. I totally agree with them there. When it comes to whether the statute is against the constitution, I have tried here to add a few major remarks that have been heard in public, but also in today's congregation debate. The irony is so much greater that opposers of the statutes have called precisely on those provisions of the statutes which are almost literally or quite literally copied from the Constitution, from which it is derived, probably subsequently, that the Constitution itself is a secessionist act. This applies to Article 182. The constitution, which speaks of a referendum. This is about a member of the 16th. The constitution, which speaks of interregional agreements, refers to almost all the objections that we have had here to hear. counterpart Jerkov said a lot about interregional agreements being able to make and that many regions in Europe are doing so, and called for foreign experiences. I just want to tell you that there is a Belgrade Chamber of Commerce here in Belgrade, which has its own representation in Brussels. I don't think that that's what they've destroyed our state unity, I think they've only helped Belgrade's economy, and I hope that Vojvodina will do it on behalf of the whole of Serbia, and that others will have the opportunity to make a better conversation with European institutions directly for their regions and regions. There was also talk about the Academy of Science. It seems that not enough were strong arguments related to examples of unitary states, such as France, and some other regional ones, such as Italy, and I'm going to say an example of a country that is very often the reference border we call upon in everything, which is Russia, which has over 20 Academy of Science. The question that we can open here, I'll be a very working talker to you, whether the inflation of the institutions of those institutions is a question that we can talk about, but that what it says here is against that we can't talk about. We can also talk about whether and how meaningful it is to say that we have allowed this statute that Vojvodina is in debt as a region, thereby violating the legal system of the state, when we know that the city of Belgrade, the city of Nis, the town of Novi Sad, all of them have the right to sign and take commercial loans, have agreements with the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, and thus finance their infrastructure. So that's one of the simplest nonsense. Speaking of how we defend constitutional law and order, then we should all remind ourselves that it is our obligation to defend the institutions that protect this order, which is primarily the Constitutional Court. And if we say that the last word of what we say will be given by the Constitutional Court, then we must make sure that here as MPs, as representatives of the legislative authority, we do not say disqualifications at the expense of that same Constitutional Court and thus violate our own legal order, saying that it is political, that it will push the case in the drawer and the like, because in that Constitutional Court it should have the confidence of an ordinary citizen, who through it is exercising his right, and we as MPs must protect it. What I want to say a few more words about is the political context of the statutes. Analysts in the paper say that this hash and attack on the statutes is an attempt to get the right hand back on the political scene. It's their completely legitimate right. They can't be challenged. What can be challenged is the lack of mental transition, or an attempt by the opposition to the political scene, by dissipating divisions and fears, rather than offering new policies and ideas. So it's unacceptable that instead of the policy of the 1990s, when we had a division over Serbs and non-Serbs, on a national basis, we now have divisions on a geographical or territorial basis, so now we have some two new nations, it's us Serbians and Vojvodinas, and those who want to take all our finances, all our powers, all our opportunities, while we patiently let it go. So it is unacceptable, too, that a country that has had a terrible experience in the 1990s, use it and abuse it, as citizens fear what they have already had the chance to survive. The truth, and the only truth, is that they live in Vojvodina, as a majority people, Serbs, and where they would, most of all, vote in favour of the political parties they offer and whose programme is decentralisation. It is true that those in decentralisation see a response to unbalanced regional development, a response to a better and more functional state, not secessionism. The truth is that they only see their future in Serbia, strong and powerful, and nowhere else. That's what you have to say. Politics is not a space where anything is possible and everything is allowed. You can't say here that we're attending a new state rip-off, what happened with Serbia-Montenegro, you can't say, it was yesterday heard from this pay phone, that someone's building a new Berlin Wall today on the Danube and Sava, you can't say that the bad Serbs are bringing the statutes today. You can talk about his content, you can talk about whether he's legally written or not, you can politically defend ideas, but you can't share citizens. That's inadmissible. Serbian citizens are quite unhappy today that this statute is being passed, but not because the Vojvodina will receive new powers, their finances, their autonomous organs, but because the rest of Serbia has not received the same right. Today, decentralisation is most polluted in southeastern Serbia and Shumadija. That's the truth. Citizens in decentralisation see the response to poverty and unbalanced regional development. What will be our biggest mistake, is if these legal acts are not followed by a serious public debate on how to decentralised Serbia and give opportunities to other regions to move forward, because today there is an extremely uneven distribution of poverty, not wealth. The poor live in southeastern and western Serbia. There are only 7% in Vojvodina and only 4% in Belgrade. Regionalisation and decentralisation should be the answer to the fact that tomorrow the only way to survive is not to move not towards Vojvodina, but mostly towards Belgrade, whose limit will be indistinguishable in the future. I want to tell the citizens very clearly, the truth is always one and it is: after the adoption of this statute we will wake up in the territorial same, perhaps more functional state, but what will be dangerous, if we do not prevent it here in the Assembly, is what we will wake up with new deobs if we do not prevent someone from doing them.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-25-0.u31646	Ten minutes have been used since the parliamentary group's time. National MP Dragan Todorovic is on the register with the electrical system, but is not in the hall. National MP Milos Aligrudic is looking for a replica. What's the basis? (Milos Aligrudic, from the post: For mentioning the party's name. You have no right to a replica. (Milos Aligrudic, from the post: For what? People's MP, please don't throw away. You have no right to a replica. The word is from MP Zeljko Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-25-0.u31647	The esteemed chairman, respected fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, for 14 months we waited for the Statute of the AP Vojvodina or the proposal of the Statute to come here today and today we have only one representative of the motionary, so we were explained this morning, Mrs Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, who, I believe, was not present due to objective circumstances for a good part of the day, so we could not contact anyone to get some answers on many of the issues raised mainly by opposition representatives. I'll ask you some questions, you'll have to answer the citizens of Serbia, to me more or less. It's part of the collapse of the state's continent. The Statute is a kind of panda of the Constitution, as it is written, it is a constitution in the small, as we have repeatedly pointed out, so is its structure. It's not in parallel law, it's not in other countries. You won't find that anywhere. It is the specificity of this statute, and none of the ruling coalition has dealt with it. This is not the first, in my opinion, disintegration process in these areas, but I'm afraid there is no example in Serbian history that one party and one man share their own people. One was, I remind you, not so long ago, a role in breaking Serbia-Montenegro's state union, two brotherly peoples, as we used to call ourselves, I don't know if Milo Djukanovic and his coalition partners from Serbia and friends are still talking like that, and now there's another form of the same thing in part, that they're making two countries out of their people. In the first case, I will remind you, the Democratic Party has served the Democratic Party of Socialists, we have witnessed it in this assembly, Milo Djukanovic as an auxiliary tool, as a kind of crutches, and in the second case, the Democratic Party has made for itself as an auxiliary agent, like a flock, the Socialist Party of Serbia, its eternal enemy, but today a great friend and ally. I must remind you, unfortunately Mr. Bajatovic is not here today, that he has told a great lie. Three SPS MPs voted in favour of the statute in the AP Vojvodina Assembly, so that he, who is the SPS Vice-President, would directly question the single television show – whether the statute is in line with the constitution – would personally respond – mainly. It's not here mostly. It's like the girl thing, we talked about it in that congregation, she's a little pregnant or she's a lot pregnant. Either she's pregnant or she's not. Either it's in accordance with the Constitution or it's not. By doing so, the vice president of your party, Madam Proposer, replied that the statute was not in accordance with the Constitution, and you voted in favour of an unconstitutional and anti-constitutional document called the Statute of the AP Vojvodina. He says, "What does it take, so banally speaking, for a country?" First, the political will, it is already visible, and second -- money. What about the money in Vojvodina? Does anyone know that? I'm asking the motionary's representative, that's the question I've announced, to answer this question for me. I asked the RS government a parliamentary question - who controls the work of money in Vojvodina, or the Capital Investment Fund in the AP Vojvodina? I got an answer personally from the finance minister. Thank her very much for the quick answer. Mrs. Diana Dragutinović personally writes to me - The Parliament of the AP Vojvodina then and then made a decision on the establishment of the Fund, and says - The Budgetary Inspection and Audit Sector, at the Ministry of Finance of the RS, has so far failed to control the operations of the Capital Investment Fund AP Vojvodina, and we have no knowledge of the conduct of the budgetary inspection and audit of the AP Vojvodina, which has legal powers to control the authorities and organisations whose founder is the AP Vojvodina. Who controls the fund's money? Who controls the money? As an authentic Duchess, I ask - where are our money? Or, Mrs. Proposer, you have to answer me - what is the largest investment of this fund, where is the most money given from this fund in Vojvodina? The minister doesn't know just because he's out of control. Can you say on behalf of the promoter how money is spent in Vojvodina? Responsible from this place, I claim that, among other things, the most money from this fund is spent in pre-election local campaigns. It's just amazing how much money has been shoved into your pockets and in Vrbas, and in Ruma in time, and it's planned tomorrow and in Odjaks, we all know that, the ones who live in that field, as they say. Furthermore, there is something else in place, not only of the state, but of the nation. I am responsible for Serbia's destruction. Serbs in Vojvodina become a national community. Here's an example of a drastic violation of the Constitution, none of you have talked about it. Article 6 of the Statute says that in the AP of Vojvodina Serbs, Hungarians, Slovaks, Croats, Montenegrins, Romanians, Roma, Bunjevci, Russian and Macedonians, as well as other numerically smaller national communities, this means that these numbered larger communities living in it are equal in the exercise of their rights. First of all, national communities are not constitutional norms. They are determined only by this statute. There's no mention of any law or constitution. So, the statute regulates that Serbs, as well as Macedonians, are a numerically larger national community, and there are some numerically smaller ones. Please don't try to deny me, 'cause black on white says here. I remind you that Serbs are in that communist Yugoslavia, both in Croatia and in BiH, etc. were a constituent nation. They are today, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the national community, just as Macedonians, rebels, Russians, etc. This is drastic evidence. Don't accidentally relativize this, because this says very briefly and clearly. You've talked a lot about centralised and decentralisation. It's easy for you to talk about some kind of decentralisation in Mrcayevci, Seleus, Novi Sad, Belgrade. Why don't you talk about the global level of decentralisation? What are you not talking about about decentralisation in the EU, which is such a subjective blasphemy, that decentralisation in the EU is now confused with the Lisbon Agreement, so you have experienced that by crawling like this, speaking fuguratically, you welcome the rapporteur of the European Parliament, among other things, in this building, Jelka Kacina, to be so verbally slapping you that it is still buzzing in your ears. No one should have said anything to him, but the President of the Republic had to react. That's the relationship. We at the DSS want a partnership, and you're ready for a vasal relationship. It's a big difference between us and you and so much about centralised and decentralisation. Separatism; you don't let us talk about separatism. I'll give you as many examples as you want why you need to talk about it here. I quote this: "I don't know if the draft statute is against the constitution, but I know that it is politically very dangerous, because it opens the door to secessionism in the province. '"These are the words of the longtime chairman of the Regional Committee of DS, Mr. Goran Knezevic. He knows you in his soul. He knows what he's talking about. He had to end up in prison, and now that he's out of prison, he's a nonexistent person, persona non grata, and he was good. Remember his nickname - the favorite mayor of Boris Tadic. What do you think we're forgetting? Don't be hypocritical to a man, he's been in prison for a year for God's justice. As for separatism, my fellow citizen, LSV President, Mr Nenad Canak, does anyone remember 23 December 1991, when Lord Carrington and the Conference on Yugoslavia sent a Memorandum of Vojvodina? Does anyone remember that act? He is today an important factor in the ruling coalition in the Republic of Serbia. What does that memorandum say about Vojvodina? Does anyone remember? He announced that the historic conditions of 1945, when Vojvodina joined Serbia and Yugoslavia, are no longer valid. I speak from a distance from 1991 last century. Canak asks Karington that the future of Vojvodina should be a confederate unit of Serbia, and if Serbia does not accept it, then Vojvodina should be an independent state. You now forbid me to talk about separatists. I'm sorry, the ruling coalition is sitting. Canak is asking that territories north of Sava and Danube, which Serbia has detected, I quote, do not paraphrasise, be returned to the new state. Which he didn't say. Then what is it? What can we expect from the Cvetkovic-Chanak deal? Where Cvetkovic accepts, I will remind them, his amendments and what we can expect from this legal hybrid representing this Statute of the AP Vojvodina, which they wrote, firstly, I will call them, the autonomists and separatists in Vojvodina, so to God some kind of intervention is something there and changed. I'm just on one case...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-25-0.u31648	People's MP, we made a very clear agreement and it's respected until this moment, so you can qualify, disqualify the act ad hominem. He can't do it without a warning. I give you a warning. Go on.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-25-0.u31649	Have you heard of an obscenity center called the Vojvodjan Business Centre in Paris, where certain structures were regularly gathered, once again claimed to have dangerous intentions for the unity of this state, where they meet to God only for the sake of Vojvodina's economic independence? Believe what is said there that the data has all those who need to secure the state of Serbia. Ask the National Council, and here I ask them publicly, for the safety or president of the council, or the President of the Republic of Boris Tadic, if he has information about the talks at the centre. I believe they have more than they need, but no one's responding. It won't be long, and the president of the pro-European government of Vojvodina will take the liberty of criticising Serbia's lags on the European path. Do you know what's gonna happen? The criticism will, of course, be seen and supported by EU officials, and then Brussels will strongly encourage the government of Vojvodina to start a friendly dialogue with Serbia to harmonize Serbia and Vojvodina's relations. By then, the first extremists in Vojvodina will begin to ask loudly for a referendum on independence. The initial call, the initial idea, will apply only to the citizens of Vojvodina, the rest, or the rest of Serbia will behave according to the Constitution. Where does Serbia take Boris Tadic? As the old man Santiago in Ernest Hemingway's book "The Old Man and the Sea", his sabermaid, so tormented, eaten and every day getting smaller and smaller, except that Santiago somehow reached the coast, and Boris Tadic, I'm sure, will never reach the EU. But what about Serbia, for God's sake, people?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-25-0.u31650	From the time of the parliamentary group, 14 minutes and 30 seconds have been used. National MP Dragan Todorovic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure and gets word. (Dragan Todorovic, from the scene: I wasn't when you called me, so I signed up. People's MP, you're not up, you've been in the electronic system for breach of the Rules of Procedure. (Dragan Todorovic, from the site: I have this list and I want to speak on the agenda. ) If it is in order according to the application for a word, it will be the People's MP Mileta Poscurica, if you do not want to talk about the injury of the Rules of Procedure. Do you want to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure? People's MPs Zeljko Tomic and Rade Obradovic replaced places, so this led you to confusion. Zeljko Tomic spoke instead of MP Radet Obradovic. (Dragan Todorovic, from the scene: I'm sorry I was mistaken. I will never again, my word of honor. You have no reason to apologize for being wronged, it happens to everyone. That's why we're here to help each other disperse the delusions we have. People's MPs say I wasn't mistaken. (Zoran Nikolic, from the post: It is a small step for you, and a big step for the Assembly. ) Here is the MP, Zoran Nikolic, to answer. I was mistaken today because I was convinced that eight hours was enough to discuss the motion for a decision to confirm the statutes at the time of the television broadcast. Since that's not the case, we're finishing work for today. Thank you, MP Zoran Nikolic. For today we are finishing our work and work will continue tomorrow at 10.00 hours, in a debate in the order of the MPs, and according to the application for a word, in a single search of the proposal for a decision to give prior consent to the proposal for the Statute of the AP Vojvodina. The first registered speaker in this order is National MP Milet Poscurica, followed by MP Zika Gojkovic, then MP Dragan Todorovic. Thank you all. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Fourth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs of the people, I find the sitting to be attended by 110 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. Here you go. I find that, by applying the electronic system, 86 MPs are present at the Hall and that there are conditions for the Rules of Procedure to be laid down for the work of the National Assembly. I remind the MPs that on Tuesdays and Thursdays, following the opening of the session and the establishment of the number of MPs attending the sitting, and before moving on to a further debate, Article 235(2) shall apply. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, under which the MP has the right to request notices and explanations, by requesting notices and explanations from the President of the National Assembly, the President of the Committee of the National Assembly, ministers and officials in other republican bodies and organisations on issues covered by the rights and duties of these officials, from the authority of the authorities on which they are headed, which he needs to exercise the function of the National Assembly, except at the session of the National Assembly. An authorised representative of the parliamentary group may also exercise his right under Article 1 at a session of the National Assembly orally in one address for up to five minutes, on Tuesdays and Thursdays, immediately after the opening of the session and the establishment of the number of MPs attending the session, and before moving to a further debate. The President of the National Assembly, that is, the chairman of the National Assembly, gives a word to the Presidents, or to the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, starting from a number of least parliamentary groups, to the largest group of MPs. The persons referred to in Article 1 shall, therefore, require an explanation by applying Article 235, the Members of Parliament shall, within 15 days, make the request for a notice, or an explanation in writing, of the delivery to the Members of Parliament. National MP Dragan Todorovic came to the floor. Here you go.
